ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u82985	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will speak the esteemed representative of Stipo Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u82986	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The autopsy report by Martin Štefančić, four years old, 110 cm tall, dressed in pajamas, brown hair about 20 cm long, the palm of the left hand is on the front side of the chest, and the right hand under the back of the head. Teeth status milky. On the right side of the chest and on the front of the door under the chin there are entry marks 4 on the chest, one on the neck. On the back of the left, three exit gunshot wounds. My colleagues and colleagues, it's this little angel, little Martina Štefancic, who was murdered on 21.3.92. years in Borovo Selo. Here's the vice president so you can see what an innocent little angel looks like. The autopsy results were made by the Krajina militia. Of course she didn't bring in her fellow Chetniks because they were all the same, and they thought the same thing and they wanted this little angel to do to both that militia and those who shot at her. But it's a pity that we little Mother Stefancic killed in 1.2.2022. The County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek rejected the findings of the province's militia, rejected witness statements and declared this case an ad act, two perpetrators allegedly in Republika Srpska's Code of Dodik, two in Serbia and Croatia are looking for their extradition, neither were they, nor were they charged, so they were convicted in absentia, neither did they. The tragedy is that 2022. We're killing little Martin Štefancic again who doesn't even have his own street anywhere, which the Croatian public doesn't even know about. It is unfortunate that little Martina Štefancic was buried in Bor's village in the same cemetery where the mausoleum Šoškocanin, a proven Chetnik who confessed publicly on Novi Sad TV in '91. That he was one of the perpetrators of the murder of 12 cops 2.5'91. in Vukovar, so a little angel and one bloodsucker lie together in the same cemetery we give what this one has to mausoleum, and this one has a little grave. And to the Croatian state, the HDZ does not think of removing this mausoleum that offends all true Croats and all true people to make such a criminal a monument. Is this what treason should be called? It was the motto of marking the tragedy of Vukovar in 2021, 18.11., of course it should be called this betrayal without any hesitation to say the impunity of such crimes not only of the small Martine Štefančić but also of the other 402 children who were killed in the Homeland War by Chetniks, JNA and the Republic of Serbia, do not prosecute, do not punish this crime, these crimes, it is just treason and such a word should be called and unfortunately those who are in power to commit treason cannot commit treason by those who sit in opposition. I would just like to say, unfortunately, when in such drastic matters where an innocent child has been killed, we cannot welcome the justice of the Croatian judiciary when we are surprised that for the perpetrators of the heinous murder of 262 wounded in Ovcara, the Republic of Serbia is released from custody after 2-3 years. the fined sentence for good conduct and that he would no longer commit such a crime and that, to let him go, unfortunately, and the Republic of Serbia has condemned the criminals more than we have condemned, and it has happened to our people, our civilians, our defenders, we have not been able to process either the top of the JNA, nor the ordinary little brushes who did it, we have done absolutely nothing. It's the shame of this country, it's the shame of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83105	The next one will be the Social Democrats Club, and the honourable representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that you know that in the course of the Conference on the Future of Europe, an unmarked project in which EU leadership is actually seeking feedback from its citizens where it sees its Union, how the Union can be better and what the Union can do for them. Within the framework of this conference, and under the title and now allow me the stranger to the you need improved language learning Mr Shaun Rein, the President of the European Esperatian Union, has proposed to use the multilingual accelerant programme in schools across the EU to improve foreign language learning and help achieve the EU's multilingualism goal, so that all EU citizens can use a minimum of two languages along with their mother tongue. This opportunity should be highlighted and I want to do so on behalf of our club that the multilingual accelerator is actually a Croatian invention, i.e. a Croatian Esperatist project and has so far received the most votes from all European projects. It is a teaching program that allows children to learn foreign languages faster, where they gain confidence in their ability to learn language. It is based on the idea that learning the language of the model in our case of a basic Esperant summed up to 300 most commonly used morphine can improve children's ability to learn language. More than research has shown that one year learning the language of the Esperant model speeds up to 30% later learning other languages. The explanation of this is that Esperanto is very easy to learn, there are no exceptions and it acts as a logical design model. It enables children to understand basic language principles by disassemblying and reconciling words and sentences. It is much more effective than any other language in the motivation of students to learn, since it offers them the opportunity to line their own sentences from the very beginning and experience the sense of success in learning a foreign language. The teaching object of multilingual accelerant was created to be an introduction to learning foreign languages and to accelerate the learning of these languages. The foundations of the Esperant are set in a plan, and therefore it has an extremely correct grammar and word-making system through root words and prefixes and suffixes. So for a school year, for just 60 teaching hours and homework, let’s say that the student does his own work from home on his computer is able to learn the basic minimum of Esperants enough for students to be able to speak, understand and read within the minimum number of learned words. The idea of the project was that the multilingual excelator was taught by the excuse of existing foreign language teachers only with the help of the manual in their language without the previous learning of Esperat. The material to be taught is a minimum of Esperants that teachers of foreign languages can learn in parallel with students and prepare for individual school classes. The materials contain grammatical passages, and a comprehensive guidebook to help teachers prepare classes. I gave you a brief introduction to what exactly this project is, but today we all need to be interested in what we can do and what we can do because you'll agree with me that it's kind of weird that an Irish politician is proposing and supporting our projects and we don't know about them ourselves. I invite you colleagues and colleagues as well as the Croatian public, the least we can do is vote for this project on a multilingual platform. But it's not just a vote for the project. I invite you to meet the particularly competent Committee on Education yourself. I would also call on the Ministry of Culture to re-emerge the Esperatists in associations of special importance for the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because Esperanto is one of the Croatian brands. And I'm very proud that the first esperant speakers from the second half of the 19th century are right out of my Osijek. I want to say that such good ideas deserve our support, that such a good concept deserves our support and you will agree with me that it is freely said I will not say our shame, but our lack that others support projects that and in which and in which Croatia should be proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83175	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83176	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, on various Internet and satellite platforms we have the opportunity to see numerous television programs with documentaries of all kinds. The topics are most different from traditional about animals and nature to tattooed car mechanics or gold seekers in the Australian wilderness. There's something there for everyone. I'm still among the favorite shows about some distant exotic countries that hardly most of us will ever visit. And so I imagine what a documentary would look like about a country that joined a larger community of states and now has to introduce a common currency. But in selecting these currencies, it seems that some amateur designer after asking on Facebook how it was done was working with a plagiarized photo he found on the Internet, and that paper won the first prize as from some British humorist series "New Coin Politician" say, or "Yes, Minister". But I remind you this isn't a humorous show, it's a documentary, so it goes on. The country ordered combat planes for a billion and 200m euros, although that amount is not entirely reliable, as every small one grows at the very top of the world at the death of a dying virus. One reason is that she has failed to vaccinate an estimated sufficient number of people. But it's not just the first one. It's one of the first and a half cancer deaths. People wait six months to get a radiation term on old machines that are constantly broken down, and the government has reduced the health ministry's budget just about by the amount of those planes. It already hurts the head of this country from a documentary. Lucky, they're starting commercials now, so let's take a break. But after the commercials, it's even more of a shock. The state's attorney lies at press conferences in Parliament and no one, and all together after a cover-up investigation against a minister suspected of stealing and corruption. Only when organisations outside the country are involved in investigating things suddenly become suspicious. In our unusually distant country, doctors can be corrected long after they have been defended and published. In the procedure so far unseen, which is not in any law or regulation, nor in any good university practice. And all that with the blessing of the mentor, the commission, the dean, the rector. Mr. Science Doctor is of course a prominent member of the ruling party in the country. Except for these unusual events, two devastating earthquakes have occurred. The restoration is conducted by an incompetent minister who has prescribed procedures for people that are totally impervious. Some new projects have been introduced that have never existed before. Teams have formed to help people correct these different papers and collect and documentation, and as quotes say these teams go door to door, but these people don't have doors anymore. And then when all this is done, it's standing somewhere in drawers and cabinets, and two years after the first earthquake, not one house has been restored. It is a country that has also received financial assistance for the restoration that has a period of time, i.e. it needs to be exploited or returned. Four months before the end of 14 months after the money came, they only used 3%. However, this story minister and his head of prime minister announce every two weeks that the reconstruction will start next week and so on for two years. A man can really see things on TV. Which is hard to believe that such things really exist, but the globe is a big planet, it really has everything. I like to look at documentaries about such exotic countries but in which nothing is wrong and human dignity is worth a damn. But at the same time, such shows make me sad and angry. I guess people in that country didn't deserve that kind of life and I wonder how we could help them. And in the end, I always think that my country isn't like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83246	Next, the next club of MPs will be that green-left block, and the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83247	Thank you. A colleague of Mrak-Taritash has actually opened well here today with a story about a documentary I'm looking at, and I'm going to say something about what we have a chance to look at on HRT and how news comes up, informative and fun program, and especially the Croatian think tank program. So, the other day, although she did not expect it, our colleague Susana Jasic, the mayor of Pazina, received an offer from the company Force info that offered her a recording of her work on what she wanted on what she wanted, so regarding her mandate in local self-government and events in Pazin and, besides offering her to make that contribution they offered her and to offer that, this contribution is broadcast, no more than on HRT, otherwise, to our so-called. Public service. In fact, they added that they are the only agency offering such a service on the market, that fantastic service that you as mayor can pay out of your city's public money an orderly contribution to yourself that will be broadcast on HRT, preferably on any of the mosaic shows, perhaps in Good Morning, Croatia. I'll repeat here what is actually HRT's duty as a public service. Permanently, truly, fully, impartially and timelyly inform the public about the facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad of public interest. Now, are they your so-called so-called. These are contributions you order what you want them to be, and they are recorded in the form of, as marketing agencies say, making reports, it looks like a real report, like a serious press office. Now, does such a naive contribution really represent, permanently, truly, completely, impartially and timely information to the public about the facts? Do such inputs in HRT programmes meet the highest professional standards and ethical principles and professionally recognised standards of independent journalism? Well, for example, when one of your mayors gets a report that's then being broadcast on HRT through the same agency, is that independent journalism, is that a realistic demonstration of what's going on in that county? Is this a critical demonstration of what is happening in that county or is it a covert advertising? It's a covert advertising. So HRT responded to Susana Jasic's application, because of course, it is not like some HDZ mayors or mayors accepted such an offer because it realized that it was actually a complete failure of all the principles of HRT and the professional standard of television, but reported it. HRT did not give a clear answer as to how sponsored reports are shown. Look, how can you call something sponsored reporting? So, reporting is a journalist's job, and sponsorship is advertising. This means that HRT and its price list are sponsored, or sponsored journalism that you can pay to make it look what it wants. And that's absolutely something we need to talk about here and cancel on HRT. So, I'm also going to say that the annual HRT gives external productions to make such reports that it can do 2 million kunas on its own. These are short contributions from minutes, two that go on different mosaics or information programs. Is that 2,800 HRT employees not able to do? Of course it is. Would you like to do that? Of course you would. Who's making it impossible for them? HRT leadership set up by HDZ. And when we warned you about it as part of the debate on HRT, you shook your hand, and now you have a sponsored report on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83248	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83250	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here I was talking about the state and rights of Croats in BiH a week ago. In fact, even though the border is shared by us, we are one national being. Unfortunately, Croats in BiH despite all signed agreements, despite the fact that the Croats have just saved BiH as a single state today, they are all just non-constitutive people. Although it guarantees them both the BiH Constitution and the Federation of BiH Constitution. Namely, the number of Croats in BiH has dropped drastically, we have lost almost 1/3 of the population in the last 30 years with a tendency to further decline. Today, according to all estimates of Croats in BiH, there are slightly more than 400,000. Also, Croats do not have the basics that belong to other peoples, which is a national TV programme in their own language, but what is the worst and what has been the case lately is a number of oppositions, and this is an electoral law where some in this case Bosniaks elect a Croatian member of the BiH presidency. Unfortunately, negotiations in Neum failed last week, negotiations in Sarajevo continue today, but I fear we all know the outcome of these negotiations in advance. And it should be said here openly that Croatian diplomacy and Croatian politics have suffered defeat over the past 20 years. And that big defeat is just the expense of the Croats in BiH. We were unable to fight for what we signed as a state and to guarantee the rights of Croats in BiH. The Croats or the Republic of Croatia are signatories of the Washington Agreement, the agreement created the Federation of BiH, but the agreement also created a confederation between the Federation and the Republic of Croatia. That part of the deal was never activated, though, in '98. The year gave up on him and an agreement on special relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH was signed. That agreement has never been fully activated either. Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement, but despite all this, Croatians are threatened with disappearance. And like I said last week, I'll say it today. I dare say what many may think but will not say, the only way to survive the Croatian people in BiH is to create a third entity. Let us not fool ourselves within this Federation, within these relations the Croats will disappear over the next few decades. But when I made that statement, I was on social networks honored by advocates so-called. BiH citizens wrote to me among other things. You son of a bitch, eat Mr.... We're sending Covic to The Hague because he's a war criminal, and you're... from BiH. Garbage, horse, peasant, etc., these words I am honored after the announcement that Croats need a third entity precisely from those who advocate civil BiH. And we need to look the truth in the eye. If we are an internationally recognised state, an integral part of the EU and a co-signator of all peace agreements related to BiH, then we need to make it clear and loud enough now. There's a people down there who disappear. The only way to survive our people is to create a special entity and therefore Croatian diplomacy should be taken care of because all of this so far over the past 20 years has been more than in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83251	Thank you very much, we will now return to the debate on our point, but before that one technical note may not be that important, but that we know about the future. Next is the Club of Representatives, he'll be the Mosta, and the Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83327	Thank you. So, after this earthquake, I would say the exposure of fellow Mlinarić is hard to talk about at all, so back to these topics that we're facing here in the assembly, but that's actually all the follow-up, and we can say freely, the anti-national or non-national authorities that we currently have at the head of our country that did nothing to be responsible for the crimes of punishment, which is the worst that all seems to mean that these victims will not be in vain, but as if it all seems to offend them. How many people sneezed in the trenches defending this country so that every 4th or every 5th house in Slavonian villages would now burn the light on in the evening. So I don't know where they're from anymore, they don't need these criticisms, they have any morals, they have any responsibility at all, they would resign themselves, and especially if we take into account that there is a commission to monitor the implementation of the criteria of Chapter 23 with Serbia that Serbia does nothing to make chapters open and that here they justify it. It's the same situation with this referendum statement of citizens. The two referendums were during Plenkovic's government, but in that last meeting, both were stolen. Now we have this referendum where they don't want to set a deadline for counting signatures and where they want to just count it exclusively. Why? So we can play below the surface, so we can blur something out, so we can extend that deadline, and then I guess when Easter comes, when they get a moment from Berlin or I don't know from Paris, now maybe sooner from Paris this and then we say we cancel, we cancel the covid certificate, and there's no need for a referendum. And what do they impose on us in the meantime? Since we stopped them with a referendum in crazy measures, and now we see the consequences of crazy measures on our economy and on the world economy in terms of price growth, energy prices and inflation going on, so they've actually given up some harsher measures because of the referendums, but they want to create an impression that they're doing something, so now we have this testing of children and who they put it on their necks? Classes. The classes are now the ones who must therefore take responsibility for it, and parents should as well test their children. Well, of course he's not gonna test the kids, that money's gonna be thrown away. Here's this government, the government that hasn't used the money to rebuild, the government that's cramping in corruption, cramping in corruption. It's like the president of the Anti-Corruption Council to me, I have so many applications and ideas of people that it's not normal. Now I have the latest here coming from Baska Voda, it'll be very interesting. Enough of this, enough of this banditism, enough of this thieving, did not Croatian defenders and the Croatian people fight for it, and it is time for you to go into opposition and it does not take you four years of opposition, it takes you eight years of opposition to come to your senses because you have been consumed by power, you have been intoxicated by money and you no longer take any more care of the people. You know what Fina's doing to you because of this crisis? It's your frames. He raises the fee to people, the man pays the phone yesterday, you increase the fee by 50%, FINA's up. It's not enough for people to roll around with these huge bills, and you raise them up. And not only FINA, but the banks, but we can't control it that much, but I guess we can control it for Finn. It's your policy. It's your policy, Mr. Habib, you defended the DORH, you defended the DORH, you said everything was fine, and in the end it turned out that the European Public Prosecutor's Office took the case, that the DORH had done nothing. That's where you fooled the public, too. Enough of this, it's time for a national sovereign option, so an option that will fight for human beings. rights and freedoms. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83398	The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP and will speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83399	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Inflation in Croatia has been the highest in the past nine years. As Croatia belongs to the EU member group with the highest representation of food and energy in the total consumer basket, the fact that we have huge inflation costs is a problem for development and for the everyday lives of citizens in particular pensioners. 700,000 pensioners have lived under the poverty line for years with less than three thousand kunas. By collecting basic living foods and energy, this number will increase further. Our own power reduction, the shut down of the radiators, the ride around public transport at the coldest time of the day have already tested the methods of saving and surviving our pensioners, which with this price increase will produce less and less results. Retired people with living conditions below the limits of basic human dignity are already too much. The existing model of pension harmonisation is not sustainable, it does not allow pension growth to follow wage growth, and wages are low anyway. Now we can imagine how small and insufficient pensions are. The incomparability of the pension matching model is particularly reflected in the high inflation conditions as we witness today, as this pension harmonisation index is less than the inflation rate and does not allow the growth of pensions to compensate for price increases. Here is the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia today, and at today's session, the government is not helping the pensioners again. For an illustration five years ago when this HDZ government came to Mark's square, the share of average pensions on average was about 40%. It's less than 37% today. If the current model of pension harmonisation does not change over the next 10 to 15 years, the average pension will fall below 30% of the average salary. This is why the SDP proposes to change the model for harmonising pensions in such a way as to take 100% of the value of a more favourable index between the consumer price index and the index of the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, so if inflation is higher than the growth of pension salaries, it will be harmonised 100% at the inflation rate, and if there is a higher wage growth will be 100% at the salary growth rate. With the long-term fair coordination of pensions and the preservation of the purchasing power of pensioners, we believe that there should also be stronger short-term anti-inflation measures involving about 850,000 pensioners with a pension below 4,000 kuna, which would cost up to 700 million kuna. We suggest that pensioners who receive up to 1,500 kuna immediately receive assistance in terms of six months’ payouts of 1,200 kuna, those from 1,500 to 2,000 kuna in the form of a 5-month payment of 1,000 kuna, those pensioners who receive 2,000 to 3,000 kuna in the next 3 months, and from 3,000 to 4,000 kuna in these 2 winter months. In inflation growth, the state budget is the biggest winner, making money for an inflationary supplement to pensioners who are one of the most vulnerable groups there is. We hope that there is a will to help those who have long earned their dignity by hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83483	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Despite the fact that recently held talks in Neum failed to reach a final agreement, the process goes further by participants or representatives of the Croatian and Bosniak sides today meet again in Sarajevo to give the agreement once again. Let's hope for a successful outcome. In this context, the Prime Minister reiterated that the Republic of Croatia supports the continuation of negotiations, and is ready to help constructively to find a solution. Our position is clear, we stand for real equality and legitimate representation of Croats as constituent people. It is unacceptable for one nation to impose representatives on each other, stressed the prime minister and urged all actors to reach an agreement that would be the basis for stability, functionality and the European path of BiH as soon as possible. In this context, it is particularly important to highlight the interpretation of the Venice Commission and the legal experts who, in their conclusion, support Croatian proposals in the negotiations, especially when it comes to the formulations in the Constitution of BiH, because the opinion of the Venice Commission as the Council of Europe's main advisory body on constitutional issues on a proposal with limited amendments to the BiH Constitution, which implements all 5 European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg, is indeed of paramount importance. For example, the proposal for a member of the presidency to represent the Croatian people and other citizens has been assessed by the Commission in accordance with constitutional, European, European standards. Respecting the constitutional principle of constitutionality and legitimate representation, models have been presented that would eliminate the existing anomalies of electoral legislation and prevent the continuation of discrimination and imposing political representatives on Croats as the most few constituent people. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made clear before all international institutions and other authorities and continues to point out its position, which is BiH established on the principles of constitutional equality between Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs as constituent peoples along with other BiH citizens with the aim of maintaining a peaceful, stable, fair, functioning European state by respecting its sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence in accordance with international law. We sent a public message to respect BiH as a friendly country with which we want to strengthen cooperation and help it on its European path, but stressed that the new Electoral Law must ensure the legitimate, legitimate representation of the Croatian people. It is unsustainable and unfair that one nation can choose representatives for another. This unnecessarily hinders a country that, without one synergy, cannot really go forward. And in conclusion, no, no, no, no division of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats is advocated, but rather the opposite of respect for every nation's rights to equal representation and respect for life and fair work in a common, stable and prosperous state of BiH. Finally, this is the commitment of the citizens of BiH, of which 97% have been declared to one of the 3 constituent nations during the last census and so let's hope for today's success of the negotiations in Sarajevo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83663	Uh, now that it's one hour we're going to take a stand. We'll stop at a point, we'll take a stand on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent MPs' clubs, and the first one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Club, a respected representative and vice president of this high house Furio Radin, please. My colleagues, please, my colleagues, who doesn't want to hear it and who doesn't care what other colleagues say, go outside and don't disturb the speakers. It's incorrect, rude, and it's not democratic to interrupt speakers. Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed representative and vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, on February 10th, Italy is officially and in many countries of the world with spontaneous manifestations, we remember the exudus or mass migration of people from Istria, Rijeka, Kvarner islands and some parts of Dalmatia. The memory of the exodus also includes memory of victims of phobia, people thrown into karst caves during and after World War II, the only one to whom the Croatian state has not given honor to this day. Who were those people? In the vast majority of civilians, the indigenous Italians are most often deprived of any political worldview. How many were there? With numbers I don't want to insist, 250, 350, let them do it, let them... On the one hand, and the reviewers on the other hand, I'm just going to say that there were many, too many, that it was an ethnic tragedy of an area where cultures have pervaded for centuries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the point of view, the rest of us are far more important reasons for leaving and the composition of ESU and others. My personal opinion is that those who have not been able to stay and others who have not found the strength of their centuries-old home have left. Each and every day, both of them had been crucified between memories of what was and the opportunities they had missed. After all, the people who carried the tables, closets, chairs, ordinary household supplies left. All of these can be seen scattered in a storage room number 18 in the port of Trstian, they remain in piles, which are objects that speak, for example. about the misery of 28,000 of my citizens from Pula, 80% of the population who left at the time. Behind them remained a city of ghosts and us a few thousand whose numbers decreased every day. My nona, my nono, my uncles, my aunts, my cousins, they all went far from home. Every 10th of February, I go and pray to the President of the Republic, the Republic, the Senate or the House of Commons, where we remember the victims of this tragedy together. This year, I had to miss the Roman ceremony, and this is why I am giving my feelings of closeness and solidarity. Exodus is the tragedy of today's Istria, which has suffered a terrible demographic loss, has gone from people who have become great artists, writers, singers, world chefs, entrepreneurs, world sports champions and others already known, or who will only then become famous. I remember, however, ordinary people, poor families who went to the pulse port carrying what was only worth having in the winter trembling from the cold. The ideologies passed over their heads and their tragedy was not justified by the crimes that the Croats and Slovenians had previously experienced, with which the Italians, ordinary Italians, ordinary people, and not ideologies and had very intense private relations and with whom they had married for centuries, made friendships, worked and traded. Wars, exodus, crimes between peoples of human groups and individuals are just tragedies that are being collected, not explaining and justifying each other. I dedicate this day of remembrance to all the esuls, but also to those who have stayed and with whom and who share with them a common destiny with the esuls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u83665	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u89310	The final point of today's debate is - Selection, appointments and resolutions Please ask the chairman of the Committee on Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u89311	... Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] At today's meeting, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs has made several proposals for decisions on resolutions and appointments of members and members of the Committee. First decision on the discharge of a member of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Member of the European Affairs Committee Ivana Posavec-Krivec is hereby authorised. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of Nikša Vukas, and Dr. Rajko Ostojić. The proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament for a member of the Committee is called Brumnić, since 15 June 2021, the member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament has ceased to act as Martin Grman Kizivat because of the termination of the parliamentary term. The proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of the Committee on Economy called Brumnic. The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Tourism is resolved by a member of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament Vinko Grgić, and Katica Glamuzina is elected as a member of the Tourism Committee. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the president of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by Committee President Davorko Vidovic, and Zeljko Pavić is elected president. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of the Committee Ivana Posavec-Krevec. The proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by Dr Sanja Radolović, and Dr Rajko Ostojić is elected as a member. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of the Committee Katica Glamuzina and is elected as a member of the Committee Sanja Udovic. And a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the chair of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Committee President Ivana Posavec-Krivec is hereby dismissed, but Katica Glamuzina is elected president. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by a member of the Committee Vesna Nađ and Romana Nikolic, and Katica Glamuzina and Irena Šimunić are elected for the members of the Committee. All these decisions will be published in "The People's News" and will take effect on the day of their adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u89312	Thank you. I would like to thank the president of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. Here I thank the only representative, Mr. Simičević, to enter the record that he was present as the most active representative. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow as announced at 9.30 p.m. with the first point of the amendment statement. Session interrupted at 18.09 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91335	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we begin today's work, I just want to let you know that today, in addition to the planned points, we will discuss the selection point, appointments and resolutions, because this one, we have some proposals that came from the board of directors, and tomorrow we will begin with a statement on the amendments. There are 22 of them, so you plan to go first, let's say 45 minutes could last the amendment, and then after that we go with the agenda point that's announced. Now we move on to what we have announced. - Report on a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together!" and a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enough of headquarters" is submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article. 60 Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the president of the Committee, but I can see that we have requests for a break, so my colleague Bosnjakovic will then give an explanation later. Well, first of all, the break will be explained first by my colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91336	Thank you very much. It has been 18 days for the government of Andrej Plenkovic to block and refuse to give a deadline to this national referendum where more than 400 thousand people, colleagues and colleagues, signed both initiatives. What are you afraid of? I thought Lovre Kuščević was the worst, and it is obvious now that he was working on the orders of Andrej Plenkovic. You haven't made a decision in 18 days. We counted 30 days with the holidays. And then you warned, why does it count so much, why didn't you set a deadline? What's the interest in blocking you in HDZ or what counterpart Hrebak told us we'd get a glog stake in the referendum initiatives. You see the results of the gentlemen on the left, you see the results of the inflation, the prices. Look at what's going on, it's uncontrollable, there's no telling what's going to happen with the jobs, there's no telling how much tomorrow there's going to be a kilo of bread. These measures of yours are pointless, no, epidemiologically unwarranted and increasingly more countries in Europe and the world warns of that. From Sweden, which is much more developed than us, Israel, VB, all warn that there has been chaos, collapse, poverty, misery. Why are you afraid to give the people will? The people have chosen us, and if anyone has the right to decide on these measures of yours, which is purely political and exclusively political, which cannot be negotiated behind each other, Capak the epidemiologist says that the Covid certificates should be abolished, and the first pendrek, the police minister says they should stay Covid's confirmations. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Well Whom you mock, call a referendum [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91337	The apartment is approved. The second one's up, buddy coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91338	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the beginning, unfortunately almost from the very beginning of this pandemic, we've been talking about the Staff of Valuation, the mud and the various people being subject to different rules. Let's just remember that situation with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia when he was in contact with the infected and didn't have to go into self-insulation or Mr. Hrebak, which provided special conditions for him to appear in the Parliament and vote. And what did this behavior of the Staff and the Rulers lead to? To Croatia with the highest number of deaths since this infection. And that's exactly how you behave, gentlemen of the HDZ, has led to this referendum. This referendum is your responsibility. But today we're not discussing the metrics. Today we're discussing how we're going to decide from counting and controlling the signatures. I'll remind you that during the last referendum, during the last count, an extremely large number of tails have appeared that have been dragged and have burdened the procedure. That is why today we are appealing and we from the SDP will propose amendments so that counting the signature is no longer given to the Government as an interested party but to the DIP, to set a deadline within which it must be done. But above all, to make a decision to form a special body that will monitor how the signatures count. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow behind this initiative, beyond this question which is so divided by the citizens and the citizens of this country to draw tails. This procedure must be transparent and clean And we have to secure it today. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91339	Let's go, yeah, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91340	He's been injured. 238, unfortunately, the Croatian Constitution has also violated the right of the Croatian people in a referendum. The president of the opposition party, Peja Grbin, speaks of the misbehavior of the rulings leading to a referendum, as if the referendum was something bad. No, colleagues on the left, the referendum is good, people need to ask what they think about managing this crisis. And it's not a referendum that's some bad consequence of the government's non-disclosure as well. [[Intruder: Comrade Grumo, please.]] which you want to emphasize. [[Employer: A fellow Grmoe, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91341	You know for a fact that you've replicated and received a warning. Now it's time for my colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91342	Dear President of HS, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes. Here, this way I'd like to congratulate my fellow bridgemen who have managed to collect a sufficient number of signatures. It is clear to all of us that the Staff is the primary political body that has made primarily politically motivated over the past two years, not epidemiologically justified decisions. Let's remember the first restrictive measures when they were adopted. This was followed by internal elections in HDZ, until then the health of the nation was irrelevant. But in a number of these crazy measures exactly the worst, one of the worst is the introduction of a covid certificate because it has been proven to have absolutely no result, which gives you daily numbers of 10 and 15,000 infected daily. And all other countries acknowledge that this measure had no effect, so did Sweden, so did the Czech Republic, so did Israel, and so did the UK. So as the time has already been said, it is time for you to accept the people's decision and have nothing to fear, for the people have chosen you and for the people to account and allow this referendum to be called as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91343	The apartment is approved. Now she's going to speak to her colleague Posavec The Guilty, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91344	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club and in order to consult again in those 10 minutes on these two conclusions and to discuss today some illogicalities in this whole process that we in the Social Democrats Club are in the process, and I believe the general public is being imposed. Of course, we're not going to discuss the metrics here today, nor are we going to consult in this apartment because we understand that. I point out that we at the Social Democrats Club certainly support the direct and free statement of citizens on certain issues in the referendum, but also with the positive legal order of the Republic of Croatia, we advocate that all procedures on referendum initiatives such as collecting, and later checking signatures, deadlines for handovers and checking them must be clearly laid down in order to know the rules of the game on the one hand and on the other. Today, because of all these shortcomings, we have the situation that the parent committee has been in charge of the constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of these conclusions tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signatures of these referendum initiatives without a methodology we do not know whether I am based on a statistical sample or whether all the signatures will be reviewed. It is not clearly defined either, nor some deadlines despite proposals that have arrived on the other side to do so by the DIP. It is equally unclear to us why the ruling government is proposing today to do so while the new bill makes you the one who is ruling to discuss the signatures in the future and check them out by the DIP. So there's a series of vague things here, whether to manipulate the number of signatures, not to use a more difficult word, maybe steal a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91345	The apartment is approved. Let's move on, now it's time for colleague Oreskovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91346	I thank the president. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center and GLAS Party Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. Today, the topic of the debate is neither the headquarters nor the covid of the confirmation nor the other measures. Today, the key issue is constitutionality, legality and legitimacy of election processes, i.e. in this case the legitimacy of the referendum. The only thing worse than misusing the fear of vaccines for obtaining cheap political points because it has to be recognised is the main motive for collecting the signature and calling this referendum was, the worse thing than the abuse of authorities directed by HDZ. And I'm asking the question, how is it possible that today we're having a problem counting signatures after we've had opportunities to convince ourselves of the technical possibilities of the DIP? And isn't it actually the biggest defeat of the RH 30? from gaining independence and independence that the competent parent committee has dared to refer this text to a document that says that given the insufficient legal solutions that regulate the matter of the referendum and the three points, we will now have the right to count the signatures given to a government that absolutely no one in this country trusts. The question of the referendum is the question of respecting the will of those who have declared by giving their signature that they support or do not support something. With this engineering carried out by HDZ, you show that you respect neither the state nor its institutions, in this particular case I mean the DIP, nor the opposition, nor the citizens themselves. Enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91347	The apartment is approved. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Boric, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91348	Thank you very much. Art. 238, so I think here's another disrespecting colleague I guess all of us MPs here are here because he's again making claims that no one trusts the government or any ruling majority, so we had elections a year and a half ago and we see who he is and who the people trusted. I mean, these stories of theirs don't stand in any way. We had others, other these elections several months ago at local level, the ruling majority. HDZ has received the highest support. I don't think such untrues can... Unlike them who have 0%... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91349	My friend Boric, you know, you know that you're the same... My colleague, like my colleague Grumoja, this was a replica, so you get a warning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91350	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 10-minute break in order to reiterate that today we are deciding on a technical segment of the implementation of the referendum, a technical segment relating to the verification of the collected signatures. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the ruling majority in HS suggests that, as has been the case so far, the signing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's signatures and, on our proposal, that there are representatives of both civil initiatives and "Let's decide together" and "Enough with the Stogeocracy". Therefore, as regards the legality and credibility of the signature, there is absolutely no dilemma about what the procedure has already passed and the procedure of the Constitutional Court has proved to be in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, we have suggested that in future through the implementation of the referendum and the number of signatures check the DIP and when the law comes into force and we will, we will also support it and re-propose it in another reading. The authenticity, or credibility of the signature, will then be checked as suggested in the Croatian Parliament. Until then, the question may be raised whether a deviation from what the Constitutional Court has confirmed would be good for the credibility of this referendum. Otherwise in the metrics, what's important to say, this referendum goes after the covid to be abolished. That's the purpose of this referendum. Covid certificates have been introduced in Croatia as well as in all other EU Member States which still have a covid certificate. Removal of the covid certificate means indirect or direct, however you wish to close the Croatian borders on the one hand, and on the other hand contributes to the spread of the virus in society. It's been shown over the past four months that they've covided the certificates. in subjects who did not have symptoms [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] They were 116 000 infected. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]] that would infect a large number of long citizens. [[Invader President: Comrade Bačić thank you very much.]] Therefore, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91351	Comrade Bulj, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91352	Thank you very much. A colleague named Bačić injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure where he speaks all the time of falsehood, where he twists things because this is not the abolition of the covid passports, but the covid of certificates that are meaningless in institutions and the key question is what is the deadline for you to call this referendum. This referendum is the abolition of the Staff, a pointless political body And this is the end of what you have brought. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bulj please!]] to be brought by a two-thirds majority. [[Invader president: colleague Bulj!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91353	You're getting a warning. And you violated the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to another request for a break from my colleague Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91354	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. Regardless of what they think about the measures of the Staff, the fact is that there is obviously a desire in Croatia and a need to hold a referendum on various issues. This isn't the first. We also know that conditions are very demanding in relation to other countries. And regardless of that, a large number of signatures can be collected within a short period of time. Why is that? Our people have a feeling, I think with the right to have their representatives more suited to their party leaders than to them. And that is why they need to express and raise their voice on many issues. We won't agree on the effectiveness of the measures. I think time shows that all those who were critical were right and should be abolished as soon as possible, and here we are for this very procedure. And for the sake of the past, we have the right to be here suspicious. I think the doubt is justified given that the ruling elites welcome these initiatives very critically. The question arises whether we would have in the Constitution a definition of marriage if we were waiting for you to do so. No, but the people organized it themselves and we have it defined in the Constitution. Therefore, I think that we should meet these initiatives on this trail, not delay. I don't know why we don't have a deadline in this decision. The question arises whether HDZ wants to stall and buy time? Therefore, I think the debate is necessary, but there is a need to facilitate the referendum, not make it difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91355	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Bartulica. The break has been granted. And another violation of my colleague Bacic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91356	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Bartulica injured Article 238. I don't know my colleague Bartulica, which means that we were dependent on the fate of a referendum that prescribed the definition of marriage in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community, it must have been clear to you, was the main supporter of the initiative and collected signatures, i.e. through its members of activists. Therefore, that observation of yours is absolutely unfounded, incorrect, and I don't know for what reason You used it in this argument. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91357	You're getting a warning. It's also a replica. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91358	Here's what I'm going to do with Article 238. I think it's clear what I wanted to say. So, after more than 700,000 votes were gathered shortly, it was quite expected that HDZ would support it. You didn't have much choice, and if it were for you to start such an initiative yourself, you wouldn't have it in the Constitution yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91359	It's also a reminder. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're gonna take a break by 10 o'clock and five minutes. I'll see you. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] Here you go. Please just hold for a while to see you, to register everyone. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at its 27th session of 3 February 2022, discussed the request for the call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" and the request for the call for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enough of the headquarters" which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative "Let's decide together" and the organisational committee of the citizens' initiative "Enough of headquarters". The Committee has discussed the requests in question on the basis of the competences set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body which is prescribed to prepare proposals for appropriate acts in the procedure of calling for a referendum, if requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the number of constituents of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be determined on the basis of jurisdiction and the Committee shall determine the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) and (3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate expressed its opinion that a law should be adopted as soon as possible to address the matter of the referendum in a comprehensive and systematic manner. In addition, it was stressed that neither the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia nor the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia regulate the matter of the referendum in a proper manner, and that they need to be amended in order to create a precondition for the creation of a new and more high-quality normative framework for the issue of referendums in the Republic of Croatia. The opinion of a part of the members is expressed in order to require the number and credibility of the voter's signature to be checked by the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. However, given the insufficient legislative solutions that regulate the referendum issue, the need to respect the procedure so far when dealing with those requirements for the national referendum has been stressed. Since the current law governing the matter of referendums in the Republic of Croatia is not prescribed who is carrying out the number check and the credibility of the voter's signature, the committee, and according to previous practice by majority of votes, 7 votes for, 4 votes against, 1 vote abstention suggested to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. Number one. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the collected signatures of voters and requests to call the state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative "Let's decide together" and to enable the monitoring of the process of verifying the number and credibility of voter signatures collected by at least two representatives of that citizens' initiative, and to give the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. It is also called on by the government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures were collected in accordance with Article 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. It's a conclusion. Point two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the voter's collected signatures from the request for the call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enough of Staffocracy" submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative "Enough of Suppression" and to enable the monitoring of the process of verifying the number and credibility of the voter's signatures collected by at least two representatives of that citizens' initiative, and to give the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. The government of the Republic of Croatia is also called on to check whether the signatures were collected in accordance with Article 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority, local and regional (regional) self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91362	Thank you. Comrade Bošnjakovic, stay here because we have 14 replicas. First up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91363	Thank you very much. Instead of protecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and this committee, you are violating it together with your coalition partner HDZ and Milorad Pupovac, who is also a member of the board. This is spit to the people and democracy to the face, spit in the mouth. This is the birthplace of this institution. Stop this ruse. Set a deadline for how many initiatives they had to add up. Do not disgrace the people before the people, and do not lower your reputation. 400,000 people and more than two initiatives signed to abolish this pointless headquarters, a political body, a steam body that uses daily political grounds. So we see the Capak case we abolished Bozinovic's covid certificate, let's not cancel the covid certificate. Don't mock the people. Give the deadline, count it more, take it away from the government, give it to the DIP and let the people vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91364	Thank you very much. Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91365	Very short. Everything that has been done has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution and in the end all that has been made and the practice of the Croatian Parliament so far, and I see no problems in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91366	I'm a colleague of the Caddys. We're just having a bit of an injury to my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91367	Injury. 238, no one is above the people and the constitution, 400,000 signatures from our citizens you spit in the face with this behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91368	What's hurt fellow Bull, fellow Bull? Comrade Bull, please don't do this. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now you're getting a second warning. Hey, buddy Kattice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91369	The Honored Chairman, Bosnjakovic, Chairman of the Constitution Committee, as you have initially said, there are great shortcomings in the existing legislative regulation concerning referendum issues, but at the recent Committee on Constitution, a colleague, Branko Bačić, has come out with the initiative to include voters during the vote process, including observers, including those referendum initiatives which these votes have and counted, and this is accepted on the same committee, and this is also followed by the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court which make recommendations that should be included in this direction. As the responsible representative who, what is your position on this decision to include observers in the process of selecting the number of votes?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91370	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91371	Thank you very much, colleague Katičić. This proposal for conclusions now proposed by the Constitutional Committee is, in fact, for the first time in conclusions which are actually one continuity of the decision-making method regarding referendum issues. For the first time, we have in our conclusions and a de facto warrant to allow representatives of civil initiatives to actually control and observe and monitor the process of determining the number and credibility of the signatures. I think even in a referendum initiative so far, it seems to me that the Ministry of Administration has also called after the count, that it has invited the representatives of the initiative to come and check what has been removed as invalid. But then these representatives didn't respond, so this isn't in practice for the first time, but it's actually in conclusion for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91372	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91373	Dear fellow Members, you should be an example as a representative of the ruling majority, and being an example means applying to yourself the same rules that you have set for others. Now let me remind you, you, as the ruling majority, have determined for all people in Croatia that they must collect 400,000 signatures within 15 days. The other thing is, you started whining within one day to get your signatures on Mark's square right away. Then for the next month, you objected that something was muddled there because 6-7 volunteers counted 800,000 signatures, two times 400,000 signatures. What did you do as an example? In 18 days, you haven't even decided who you're going to hand over your signatures to give someone the authority to count the signatures. Why are you making alibis? You say you don't know exactly how to count, so we can help you kid in the first grade, he can read the OIB numbers, call them. Don't run away from the will of the citizens, they gave you a clear message, they want a referendum because they want to decide this, don't run away from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91374	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91375	Col. Petrov, no one escapes from the citizens, one part of the citizens and one part of the electoral body is signed, one large part is not signed, and that is why we can actually move within the frameworks of the constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The law passed the first reading, however, in order to comply with the law, it must enter into force. The referendum law is in the process, when it is voted on then some other provisions will apply. As for the procedure, the procedure is clear, so as long as it lasts, but the foundation of democracy is procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91376	Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91377	Thank you, Chairman. Dearly respected, you have tried rhetorically to prevent the referendum and HDZ and SDP from having some sort of vaccination story, so that we are paralysing on people's deaths, etc., etc. You said all yours, the people said theirs with 410,000 signatures. What I'm going to ask you is, are you planning to lift the covid certificate before the referendum itself is held, and how do you feel as an ex-minister who has left the law of the referendum for a sin of failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91378	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91379	So around the covid certificate and all that there is a competent body in the Republic of Croatia that something that will make decisions about it. As far as this personal section is concerned, that I left something unregulated, it was never in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice but in the Department of Administration, and as you know, at the Ministry of Administration, there were two ministers from the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91380	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91381	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, the rules and procedures are those set by HS. There's a legal gap here, and you and I know it. This legal gap has not been regulated for years and the law is now in the process and we, as Parliament, have created practice and this practice has shown some shortcomings in the last referendum initiative and tails have been drawn behind it. I don't think anyone in HS is in the interest of such tails being dragged on. The decision the government has proposed in the new law that passed the first reading is better than what was parliamentary practice, and here I am talking about that control is not entrusted to the government but to the DIP. So I urge you to reconsider that we do it now, to trust the DIP and avoid dragging unnecessary tails behind this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91382	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91383	My fellow coat of arms, you and I both know that these conclusions are the continuity of decisions we've had, and it was the same normative, the same normative framework was and then and now I don't see any reason to change it, and the law is in the procedure and you know it when it's made, it will become mandatory.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91384	Excuse me, Comrade Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91385	Thank you. So, after the referendum initiatives have collected a sufficient number of signatures, Prime Minister Plenkovic argued that within 3 days these signatures should be handed over and that you will immediately count them in Mark's square, it has been 18 days since the signing was submitted, we are here discussing when the government will start counting or that we will only be in charge of the government, and you do not want to set a deadline. So it's not clear to me how you or should have asked the prime minister, but some of them were still representatives of the HDZ about it, how you thought it would count the signatures in 3 days, and now you don't want to set a deadline for yourself to count the signatures after 18 days. Obviously, then, you don't want to fool around, that you don't want this referendum to happen even though it's not just about the covid certificate. You're hoping to lift the covid certificate, but this referendum concerns both the headquarters and the decision-making, and I don't understand how you do, and part of the MPs don't want decisions to be made here in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91386	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer. My colleague Jelkovac is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91387	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure belittled here all of us MPs by citing what is not true. The Prime Minister has called on all of you from the initiative to bring immediately collected signatures or within 2-3 days and that all signatures will be counted together in front of the public. You didn't do it, and now you're calling all of us here, and you know what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91388	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. Not just to you, but to all of you, I don't understand that someone is expressing their position, and then you think that he is demeaning you. You're not the creator of it, I've heard it many times, it's used this, this item art. 238, but really I, when someone says what they thinks I don't see anyone belittled by it, so I'm asking you to do something more creative at least, I have to give you a heads-up right now. A fellow Thunderbolt, won't you? Okay. Let's move on, fellow Boric, yeah, pardon the reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91389	My colleague Grumo, the procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, prescribed by law, she has her continuity and we simply think we didn't even have the authority to act the opposite. As for fear, in fact, that the council would decide on it, I think that no one has it, but the Constitutional Court said that the system that we have, and which is in fact at the Civil Protection Act and the establishment of the headquarters and in the Law on the prevention and protection of citizens from infection, from infectious diseases that he also passed the procedure before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court said that such a decision is fully in accordance with the constitution, and I must admit that I do not know how to decide in a two-thirds majority here, and the measures need to be changed almost on a daily basis, in order for us with 2/3 to decide that the wedding should be 50 or 100 people or 150, it would be very complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91390	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91391	Thank you very much. So here we have so far had two referendums in which the people decided, so we entered the EU, on the basis of one referendum, on the basis of another, we put into the constitution the definition of marriage. And now we've been listening for more than two months to the story of the people deciding, that's what the lords of the Bridge say. And then they asked a referendum in a way that people don't decide but to transfer their decisions back to HS. That's the kind of referendum we had in 5.7.2020 when the elections were held. At that time, the people said that the majority who would pass legislative acts and a government that would bring executives for them should agree. So now I ask, if this were to be carried out as it was written, would the people decide how they suggest it, or would the council make decisions again, as they can now make certain decisions, whether they really deceive the people and think that they don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91392	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91393	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, today we are actually discussing fundamentally who, whose body we will refer to to count and determine the credibility of the signature according to the practice that has always been directed by this HS, and we, as the Committee on the Constitution, propose that this practice does not change. We've all been unanimous on the board, we've all been unanimous that the normative framework is missing. For this responsibility is borne by all those who have been in power, who have participated and that is correct, but this government has sent a referendum law into the procedure, once voted we will have a better normative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91394	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91395	Mr. Bošnjakovic, are you aware of how dirty, how rude your statement has been made for this speaker that the foundation of democracy is procedure. You've been Minister twice, and today in front of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, you're saying that we need a new and more quality referendum law. And why is that? Because the existing law that we have been amending since '96, 2001, and then twice in 2006, then in 2007, then in 2016, then in 2017, did not settle the fundamental question that the law should be prescribed, which is who counts the signatures. How long do you think? Do we even have a state if after 30. We were not prepared to settle the fundamental issue on which democracy rests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91396	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91397	... Many times answered, maybe someone thinks it's rude, someone thinks it's normal, but the fact is that the question isn't regulated, and that's what we were, we're agreeing and on this issue we're doing, but it's not just this government's responsibility but all of those governments before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But despite the fact that it is not regulated, there are ways to actually fill these gaps and to actually ensure that these decisions are both the number of signatures and the determination of their credibility and the way they are collected. So this decision is actually on the trail of all those decisions that were before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91398	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91399	It's actually a kind of hostage crisis, so the government says it itself, and it suggests in the law that it's not good for her to count the signatures. ... As she didn't say, so she proposed the law, the council accepted it, even we voted for it. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And look, the government will never take your powers if it doesn't have to, right? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91400	Don't, don't throw, don't throw, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91401	Will you give me back a few seconds?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91402	Come on, we'll give it to the end, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91403	And this means the government doesn't want to, and now the parliamentary majority is pushing the government to beat on it again because it's likely to conclude something they don't like. And why does he do that? And they suggested that it be the DIP that counts the signatures. Well, because the head of the government is their man, and the head of the DIP is no longer, Milanovic imposed him on the Supreme Court president. The HDZ also wants to control the process and therefore it will not count the DIP but the government. I can't figure it out any other way. So, you yourself suggested and voted to be a government, to be a DIP in the first reading. We suggest that it be DIP and Mr. Bosnjakovic here's a direct answer. Would it be against the law for the Parliament to assign a DIP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91404	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91405	Thank you very much. That's what you'd...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91406	Excuse me, excuse me. Col. Jelkovac's injury again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91407	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague was injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure demeaning us here by bringing out half the truth and the false. First of all, the President of the Supreme Court was elected not by the Prime Minister but by this body, the Parliament. And these insinuations really don't lead anywhere. It's pure politics. It is well known if there are certain gaps then they are solved the way we have so far solved certain practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91408	Thank you. You're getting a second warning from your colleague Jelkovac. Let's move on. Comrade Brumnic, here you go. No, I'm sorry. Did you answer? Now, a colleague of Bosnjakovic's answers, please. [[Intruder Bošnjaković: I will answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91409	Comrade Bauk, the State Election Commission is an independent body. In the Law on the State Election Commission, neither in the Law on Referendum nor in the Constitution, we do not have any provision to which you would actually be accepted, which you would say is what you are going to do. Someone would have understood it, perhaps even as a result of the law, some influence on the State Election Commission, and whether it was in accordance with the law or not, neither you nor I would have known until the Constitutional Court eventually decided on it. And this is actually your theory that the government doesn't trust itself and all of that maybe we could translate you were the minister of administration and you had the opportunity to intervene in this area. You then felt that a good solution in view of the practice of this committee and the Parliament to check the government's conduct, and now you've actually voted the other way around. Now you think that would be different. So it depends a lot on the time you're what and where.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91410	The constant in that world is just a change. Right? Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91411	Here's to getting a warning, too. It's a shame to miss a good chance of warning. A colleague, Bošnjaković, writes first in the Law about DIP, Article 238. The DIP Act says they're doing something with a state referendum, and as far as the government is concerned, I've been in charge a few times and counting signatures, there's never been a problem with how many signatures there are. But to paraphrase one thinker, not every government is the same. There's government and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91412	And there is also a reminder and a warner, and you think. Let's move on. A colleague, Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91413	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, it is not clear to me that you are not ashamed to go out for this pay phone to say that the law is lacking, that the way it has been implemented so far is bad. To have a proposal by the opposition, but also by the Government in a proposal to amend the laws with which everyone has agreed to be better and to say that they do not want to support it. I have to admit that the way you're acting in fact shows that you're afraid of what the people want to tell you, because 400 and a few thousand signatures that have been collected for these two referendums are not only collected because of these two referendums, it's collected because of a message that wants to be sent to this government, and that it's incapable of managing these societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91414	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91415	This way, the normative framework is not good, so the constitutional and legal experts and all the members of the Constitutional Committee said, and that is, unfortunately, a notor fact. There is no legislation around the world where all issues are regulated in a brilliant way, there are some legal holes and some legal gaps everywhere and someone checks it out. No one's afraid of the will of the people, no one's giving up on it, but the procedure needs to be fully respected as it has always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91416	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91417	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Committee. The ruling majority and government, so I think, and a large part of Parliament has supported the First Reading referendum law and will probably be checked by the State Election Commission in due course. But one who is potentially dissatisfied with the fact that perhaps the State Election Commission has also found that there is insufficient number of signatures being collected by the Constitutional Court Judges that the result of the will of the ruling majority and opposition, above all HDZ and SDP, in the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges, has almost the same material in their hands that they can in one inappropriate way trouble the State Election Commission, because the President of the State Election Commission has chosen this Assembly and members of the National Election Commission again chose the Assembly from around the same political options as the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91418	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91419	Thank you. The law is in the process, it passed the first reading. We can actually talk about this today, but today is a fundamental debate about who we're going to trust to count the signatures and determine their validity. The board was quite convincing by a majority of 7 votes in favour of, 4 against, 1 abstention, the committee suggested that it be entrusted to the government and this is on the trail of this. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91420	Comrade Brumnic, I'm going to give you a warning now. This isn't right. There's a provision to throw out of the bench, but you're a little out of line. My colleagues laughed, I can joke, but let's not make fun of it right now, there's some order. Here you go, pal Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91421	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91422	Then let's move on. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91423	Thank you, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. I took part in this committee session and most of all agreed that this issue should be regulated as soon as possible, but that the existing conditions are very demanding. According to the new census, this required number of signatures does not correspond to reality in Croatia at all. Therefore, you could have set a deadline. Now you could, you didn't have to, but you could. You didn't answer the question why it wasn't specified. So the initiative requires a very demanding threshold. We here who need to take care of the procedure now are in no condition to impose a little order on it, so set a deadline because it may be demanding but it is necessary. So, again, there's a suspicion that he wants to stall, so please explain the reasons why he hasn't set a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91424	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91425	For a deadline, we need to have some concrete knowledge of how long it would take to do that. Since we didn't have any indication of who we were going to set it up with, we left the deadline open with full confidence that it would be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91426	Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91427	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. So here's the fascinating thing about how untrustworthy it is in institutions, not to trust the institutions in counting, with observers from those who also didn't accept the offer to come immediately within a few days together in front of the cameras counting the signatures. But let's go back to the metrics, and the metric is the question of abolishing the covid certificate. Covid certificates shall be applied in one 40 countries. Croatia would not have had such a successful tourist season, that together with a dozen EU tourism countries we have not introduced them. No EU country has abolished the certificate. They just don't apply them to some things that have never even been applied in Croatia, you couldn't get out on the road if you didn't have a covid certificate, you couldn't sit on the terrace of the restaurant if you didn't have a covid certificate. And how justified in Croatia is enough saying that we found 120,000 asymptomatic positive people on the covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91428	Thank you. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pavlichek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91429	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. A colleague offends all those who consider that. no trust in the institutions. Well, of course we don't trust institutions when these institutions are obviously, and it's clear as a day they stole two referendum initiatives and that's true. And the people decide. And how will we trust such institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91430	You get your first warning. You don't want a colleague, do you? Okay. I'm appealing again. These are pure replicas. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're plimising, you're replicating, and that's not the point of hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here's a response from my colleague Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Pavić's question of trust was indeed one line through which all discussions were being held at the session of the Constitutional Committee, and indeed one side had no confidence in the government that the government would do the job correctly, and on the other hand there was also mistrust in those who were collecting signatures, so it was said that there was no control at the time when they themselves were preparing for surrender. So trust that would be said from one side to the other, mistrust as well. So we cannot resolve this issue in any way, but simply as the institutions submit a report. With this time we have made a step forward that, so citizens' initiatives will have the right to look at in principle, to observe the process of identifying numbers, which I think is a good decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91432	And the last replica of my colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91433	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We have two conclusions before us on two initiatives that I think are political, unserious, irresponsible at the time of the pandemic and which have essentially helped prevent people from being vaccinated, to respond to vaccinations, to actually put them in a position to be more susceptible to disease and death. So I think that this is absolutely a missed time as well as the missed goal of these initiatives, which are often cheap political points that wanted to come to this. Today, it is not believed that the government that is being called through these two conclusions will take over and count votes in common with those who have led initiatives to determine people who will observe as doing so for the government by state institutions that are competent in all respects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91434	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91435	Thank you very much. Of course, what you were talking about was not a topic at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but I can agree with you here and I would actually like to be in our country as many vaccinated as possible. Because the figure that says that out of a hundred people who have died, more than 80 have not been vaccinated is actually very much in favour of people being vaccinated. Here I am going to use this pay phone and invite those who aren't vaccinated people to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91436	Thank you, fellow Bosniak. I'm opening a debate and we're starting with clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91437	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The power comes from the people and belongs to the people. One of the basic articles of the Croatian Constitution. Unfortunately, like this article, many laws in this country are often a dead letter on paper. In fact, the referendum law shows that the Institute of Referendum in Croatia is indeed an almost dead letter on paper. At 30. Croatia's independence was only one referendum initiative launched by the citizens' initiative, and this was a referendum on marriage that was successful, all others failed, part of which did not collect enough signatures, and part of which is simply, as seen today, was stolen by the ruling ones, and part again that is the constitutional court, and we all know that the constitutional court is chosen and we all know that this is also a political body and that all but independent, certain issues have been declared unconstitutional. At 30. So only one referendum on citizens' initiatives was successful. But what is even sadder is that this referendum law has a series of shortcomings. On the one hand, the only thing we know is that we need to collect a sufficient number of signatures or 10% of the number of voters in two weeks, that's all. It is not known within what time limit these signatures should be submitted, it is not known within which time limit these signatures should be counted, there is no telling what to do with these signatures afterwards, where to store them, whether to destroy them and how to protect personal data. Even what we know is so sloppy, and that's 10% of the voters list when here today we have official census results that say there are 3.8 million of us, which means that according to all indicators, there are no more than 323.2 million voters in Croatia, and 320,000 signatures are needed. This way, I would like to congratulate my colleagues from the Bridge once again that they have managed to collect a sufficient number of signatures despite all this. But probably this referendum and this initiative wouldn't have been if the headquarters had been credible and aware of his work in the fight against covida-19. Namely, right through the last 2. The headquarters made 100 decisions often contradictory, often politically motivated, rather than epidemiologically justified. So the first, let's say, restrictive measures were taken after the HDZ internal elections, until then the nation's health was irrelevant. Let us remember that often the members of the headquarters violated their own decisions, so Minister Bozinovic was caught in the Spaladium arena without a mask on his face, so Minister Beros was caught at the clock without a mask on his face, so at the time of the lockdown, when we were all locked up in our homes, some ministers were banking on the basements, and this is why people had no confidence in the headquarters. And because of all of this, there is a revolution of the citizens, and one of the worst decisions was the covid of the certificates. In fact, it's clear to everyone now that they had absolutely no effect because if they had fought the covid pandemic, we wouldn't have 10-15.000 newly infected a day today. And today, when you look at other Western European countries, these same countries are determined by order to abolish the covid certificates, even the ones with the greatest fissure. Behold, the other day Israel announced that they would abolish the covid certificate because they had no effect. The Czech Republic has also published this, it has also published Sweden, in part and the UK, and it is likely that Croatia will do so, and probably before a referendum is necessary to show it to the groundless because the headquarters do not want to admit their own mistake. And here I said a few days ago, and it's not a problem for Minister Beros, anyone who does it and makes mistakes, but admit your mistakes, and there are mistakes and there will be mistakes in the future. And on the other hand, while we're all dealing with these covid certificates, people at the same time are dying of other diseases that we've completely ignored, so here's information today that 40 people die of cancer every day. We're going to have an explosion of more dangerous diseases that we've put aside because we're based on only one, and that's a covid-19. But let's get back to the referendum. You have nothing to fear, folks, the people have chosen you, the people have given you confidence in these elections, and the people have asked for a referendum in accordance with the existing laws, call it out as soon as possible, there is no need for this government to fear its own people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91438	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Djakic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91439	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. So a colleague injured the Rules of Procedure. In 238, because he demeaned and insulted the words that previous referendum initiatives had been stolen by the ruling ones. I can freely argue that there are clearly defined reasons why there were insufficient signatures, and these are unauthentic signatures, as well as authentic personal data. OIBs Therefore, Please, it's, it's written in the report and the Constitutional Court has confirmed it. [[Intruder: colleague Djakić, please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91440	You get your first warning, colleague Djakic, you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91441	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91442	This was a replica that had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going to the second club of MPs, that's the SDP, the colleagues of Grbin and Bauk will speak, the first one's to be a colleague of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91443	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with something that may not be a direct topic of today's debate, but as chairman of the board, he's talked a lot about it, and that's the problem with the normative framework. And this problem of the normative framework exists, there's a long line of years, and it doesn't want to be solved. But respected counterpart Bošnjakovic, respected colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, is not a problem in the law, the problem is in the constitution, in the Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court and only then in the law because the problems with the referendum and the fact that there is no limit in Croatia that the referendum can almost be called for for things that would be brought to the heart of some fundamental human rights if it is a constitutional referendum that stems from the fact that there is no political will to change these provisions in the constitution, and there is no such political will because HDZ was in opposition or in power persistently, persistently, systematically does not want to approach constitutional changes in this area. These constitutional changes require a two-thirds majority, the two-thirds majority means consensus. While we were a majority option we wanted to achieve this consensus, you didn't, you didn't want to take part in it. In the previous assembly as an opposition, 51 MPs initiated it, you did not want to support it, although among those 50 MPs were members of the ruling majority, you do not want to do it now. My colleagues and colleagues, do not talk about an insufficient framework when you are responsible for this inadequacy by yourself. And what are we doing? Instead of building the house from the foundation or the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, you want to build the house from the roof by amending the law. It's not going to work, it's just going to generate other problems, no matter what solutions may be better than those that are now, but you don't work systematically, or in the right way, and don't hide behind it. If we want the problems that exist, which come from this insufficient framework, we solve and fix it, let's do it. This can't be a single political option in HS alone, and if you talk to your colleagues and colleagues here in the assembly, you'll realize that there's a sufficient, sufficient majority of them, you just have to make a political decision and say that we want to do it, but you're not able to do it. But let's get back to this referendum. Yes, the fact is that this referendum came about the work of the government and the headquarters. Yes, the fact is that Croatia has the worst results, especially in the last few weeks in the world. Why? Because of the government and the headquarters. And yes, the fact is it caused a reaction. Neither Mr. Djakic nor Mr. Djakic is responsible for the failure of the fight against covids on the side of the opposition, she is on the side of the ruling, and some of the opposition have tried to collect political points. Is that right? It's not. But is their responsibility comparable to those who have managed to bring Croatia into such a situation, in fact, and perhaps the most painful thing to die, that as a society, we have become in a position of incompetence, that we have actually brought ourselves into a situation that, during the debate on the fight against the Corona about the dead, we are talking about the dead as numbers. Now, that's where the HDZ gentlemen brought us, and the others tried to collect political points, and that's not what we should be running from. But today we need to talk about something else, which is how to ensure that behind these signatures and their controls don't drag tails, and you can say that so far it's been done in one way, but if there's a better way, and there's a better way of proposing it yourself, then it's our responsibility to apply it better, if last time there's a bunch of tails left behind for years, and we have a solution to how it doesn't happen, so let's get people to apply it, let's apply it. There is potential for that, but there must be a will on your part. My colleague Bauk will now explain in detail what these solutions are and what suggestions they are so that behind these signatures and this count would not be drawn by unnecessary tails for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91444	Before I gave my word to my colleague Bauku, I was only one intervention, so I was present here when my colleague Grba-Bujevic spoke and did not speak of the dead as numbers. I don't think it's fair, you're right, it's a verbal figure, but it's still about people's lives, and I think you're a little out of line. Well, I won't give a warning, but I'm asking you to avoid that kind of speech after all. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91445	If I were to paraphrasise my colleague, Bosnjakovic, there is a certain legal gap in the Rules of Procedure, and it would be in the spirit of discussion if you first let your colleagues injure the Rules of Procedure, so let me continue, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91446	When is this colleague Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91447	The legal gap has been since we changed this Rules of Procedure. So, the SDP Club will, the SDP Club will propose 3 amendments to the proposal for these conclusions. The first concerns the subject of the count, we will propose to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia when the parliamentary majority is no longer in their decision from the first reading of the law, which is that from now on, so hopefully when we adopt the law numbers, the signatures of the number of the DIP as an independent body composed of judges of the Supreme Court and representatives of all political options in HS. And you told Bacic exactly that he could get an objection that the constitutional court was drawn up by political agreement between the HDZ and the SDP, which is much better than the HDZ and HDZ political agreement that both the minority and other coalition partners, and as the government is drawn up, so we see that even such composition is better. Secondly, we will propose to define a 30-day deadline in which the government will count the signatures. I think, or whoever is counting the signatures if you accept our amendment what, I'm skeptical about it, so because it's also a practice that has shown that it's a reasonable and sufficient time-limit to be numbers, to sign numbers, and to report the council and everything that needs to be reported, and if you think that the deadline is short, let's be 40 and be 45, but to be some deadline, then there's going to be less pressure on the government, and then the applicants of the initiative will be less nervous, or they'll be less visible when every little question is asked when the signatures will be counted if the Parliament takes a deadline, 30 days, 40 days, then they don't have to ask when they will, but we've already answered them when they will. I mean, I don't mind them asking, but because of some state of mind the nation better define it. And thirdly, we will propose to define the body of the assembly that would oversee the implementation of the signatures so that then those parliamentary representatives who support the initiative or who are their speakers, if they have any doubts, better bring them up at that time, but after the counting process is completed and the number of signatures are determined, that they do not amount after that because if they are after that, it again means that we have seen about as much as in that joke the banana bark and knew that we will immediately slip onto it. So we know what can happen, we know what possible objections and problems are, and our proposals, if they were accepted, these problems in many ways would be prevented and perhaps removed. This leaves room for colleagues who are both on the Organisational Committee of Initiatives or at least have declared that referendum and the People's Will, which is a legitimate political struggle, but do not have to be completely accurate, would have the opportunity to monitor and ultimately inform the Assembly of any observed dilemmas which can then react. The worst thing that can happen is that, for the next few years, we're listening to a referendum stolen, as we're now hearing about this, the truth about Istanbul and whether it was, the People decide, it seems to me, it's that one. Yeah. Otherwise, what the government did back then was sometimes called socialist socialist malfeasance. But good. And to conclude, the SDP Representatives' Club wants this part of the referendum procedure not to cause additional controversy after it is over. This is why we want to prevent our proposals from future problems, to suggest future legal solutions in the second reading, to be literally prescribed and third, to return the referendum to those frameworks that should be under the Constitution, which is to be complemented by representative democracy, and not by its replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91448	Now we'll move on to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The first is a colleague, Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91449	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. So fellow coat of arms in his attempt to defend the opposition entirely put himself in... the position, and insulting us, because I showed an example at the beginning of vaccination that vaccination should be given and called for vaccination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today when he defends the opposition, it seems to me that the party has decided to make a new alliance with the Bridge. I believe that This is what I said. [[Intruder: colleague.]] that the opposition is guilty of such confusing messages, [[Intruder: Comrade Djakić, thank you very much.]] which the inoculation came to this... [[Intruder: colleague Djakić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91450	/Intruder: You are getting a second warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91451	...the moment. Thank you very much, but I must I have to say it all the way. [[Intruder: Comrade Djakić, you will get the 3rd, and I will take away your...]] That so many lost lives for Non-vaccination is strictly... [[Intruder: Comrade Djakić, you get.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91452	/Intruder: You're getting a 3rd warning now./
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91453	... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91454	Please sit down and you have no right to speak until the end.../ Intruder: The strict reason... /... Comrade Djakic, I'm going to have to kick you out of the assembly. So what's this now? Please be nice. Let's move on, colleague Jelkovac, go ahead. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, fellow Peric, just turn it off. Okay. It is. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91455	Thank you, Your Honor. Since you have warned your colleague Bauk about what he said about a colleague who is not present here today, I am withdrawing the injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91456	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms said that, not Bauk. Okay. All right, thank you very much. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91457	Thank you very much. I'll risk your warning. So I'm calling in an article. 238 whose colleague Grbin insults both us and the Government in a way that shows by his hypocrisy that everything that the Government and the Prime Minister have mentioned 1000 times, where it has been possible for us to split ourselves free of charge and that we still have one hundred people, 80% of those who have not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91458	Thank you very much. Yes, it's a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91459	Thank you, Your Honor. Art. 238, MP Grbin has hardly offended MP Bujević and, after all, all of us. It can't be a lie to twist the fact that it's a long-time doctor who saved many lives and who in this pandemic has been doing voluntary work, vaccination and testing in a way that has advocated prevention and.../incomprehensible/... pandemics and life-saving. So, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Death is no one's number, and at least no one's number. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Murganić.]] Not to her. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91460	Yes, that's what I said, especially because my colleague Buja.../incomprehensible/... colleague of ours who in those first days showed quite enthusiasm and worked very hard to stop Covid and probably saved a lot of people's lives, so I really think it's inappropriate what my colleague Grbin said, but I warned him about it. Let's move on now. It is my colleague Bacic's turn on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91461	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ representative's club supports this proposal, which was tabled on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of counterparts Bosnjakovic. We believe that this debate today is one step in line with the Constitution, which states that if the HS finds that 10% of the total number of voters in Croatia are collected, we can call a referendum today, and today we are practically in line with the earlier procedure that passed the constitutionality test, we conclude that this verification of credibility is entrusted to the Government with the presence of citizens' initiatives. Therefore, we can debate, comment, and that is our right, but it should be said that it is not a precedent. So this isn't a precedent, so for the first time in a procedure we define, it's already passed through the Parliament on several occasions, and also in the Constitutional Court. I have to look back on my colleague. When he accuses this ruling majority and HDZ of obstruction in the adoption of amendments to the Republic of Croatia. Comrade Grbin, I will remind you, you were the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and I was then a parliamentary representative and there are a few of us here from that mandate. I remember well how two initiatives ended. One that has been led more through HS, the other which has been initiated, has been proposed since then by RS President Ivo Josipovic. Not that it was proposed, it was the cornerstone of the election campaign and its original programme in the elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 so here is a quote that will support who and how it looks at the amendments to the Constitution. I'll read it. The Croatian Constitution does not have to last as an American, 200 or more years, but it cannot, brother, every 10 years change the Constitution, and ironically adding that we are no longer in the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, the end of the quote. These are the words of the current president of the Republic of Croatia, then Prime Minister and SDP, Zoran Milanovic, who publicly demonstrated such a proposal in Ivo Josipovic's campaign as president, saying the SDP would not support it. Therefore, to tell us that we are not to change the Constitution, here you are a witness to these events, you were, I say, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And I agree that the Constitution should not be changed for 10 years, 20, 30, that the Constitution as a basic document should take as long as possible more, but when this problem is concerned, the Constitution requires changes. We at the HDZ Club, I will publicly say that on behalf of the Club, we think that 10% of signatures are a lot and that we need to reduce the number of signatures, however, in order to do so, the Constitution needs to be amended. We think that the quorum of decision-making should also be established, not that any issue that may be the subject of a referendum is decided by the ordinary majority, if they come out, three, two can make important, important changes to the Constitution concerning all citizens. The quorum of decision-making should therefore be prescribed on this, by amending the Constitution itself. As for the previous assessment of constitutionality, two were also considered when the SDP acted in the first Racan government and when changes were made to the Constitution. So, colleagues from the SDP, ask the SDP leaders and SDP officials at the HS why they didn't write it, ask them, and you'll find it much clearer. But it is only in response to Mr. Grmoja that we are not in the HDZ, we are in favour of a change of the Constitution, but we are respected gentlemen, given the need of a two-thirds majority to change the Constitution, which is also trying to bring to this referendum, so that epidemiological measures are brought by a two-thirds majority, as a rule of initiative on the amendment of the Constitution quickly, very quickly stick to new requirements for changes and which are significantly broader changes to the Constitution because a large number of political parties are participating in the adoption of the Constitution, and then when I'm already participating, then I'm fulfilling my opinions on the amendment of the Constitution, and therefore, in the last 21 years since the Constitution has been changed, 20 years, or not, we've had a change in 2010 due to the entry into the EU, but in this part which relates to this issue, we don't have a good and therefore we have a law which we can and we can change it, and we't, and we'll move it in the manner and we're going to change in the way and we't, and we're going to change, and we're going to change, and we're going to change in the way, so we't, and we're going to change, and we't, and we're going to change, and we're going to change, and we't, and we're going to change, and we're going to change, and we're going into, and we't, and we're going into, and we're going into, and we're going into, and we't, and we're going into, and we're going into, and we're going to change, and we're going to change, and we're going, and we', we're going, and we're going to change, and we're going, and we're going, and we're going to change, and we're going to change, and we', and we', and we're going to change, and we', and we', we', and we', and we', and we', and we', we', and we're going to change, we', we', The signing of the voters, but that, as legalists who, under the normized law, have a procedure that passed the constitutional test to continue with this direction, and in order to remove any doubt as to whether or not this was acted on.../incomprehensible/... according to the exact signature of the voters, this will be attended by representatives of civil initiatives to remove suspicion and again with this speaker I will say 100 times to everyone that all those who speak about the referendum Truth on Istanbul, by amending,.../incomprehensible/... amendments to electoral legislation to someone stolen, I will remind those who today in such a way.../incomprehensible/... say that they were invited that any signature that the Ministry of Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had been declared incomprehensible were called to come to check and make a clear complaint, to implement the day of the procedure, to determine whether these votes and to be accepted by the Governments that they had not to be accepted and to the courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This time we go one step further, not than we will ask for the procedure itself to participate and decide on the number, the exact number of signatures and the credibility of the individual signatures. As far as the deadline goes, we don't have a problem with it, it's going to be 30, 45 days, as long as it's going to be. In the HDZ Club, we hold that from a deadline that can be shorter, longer, a week or 10 days more important, accurate, accurate, correct proper procedure, it is more important than the time limit, more importantly whether we have established it correctly enough, that number of voters not to draw the tails after that. It will not be delayed, no one has any need or reason to delay the procedure, at least the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will be checked within a time limit which is appropriate and which will ultimately be in line with the initiatives that they have collected. As far as the metrics are concerned, there's no need today, it'll probably be about that time when we get here, we get feedback, feedback, feedback. But one who is dissatisfied with the outcome of the signing count has the same tool that I do not agree with, as it shows that the Constitutional Court is illegal, that the Constitutional Court has been elected on the basis of political will, which I also think that all courts in such systems are democratically elected and come out of the parliaments, resulting from the parliaments, and so is our constitutional court, in a similar almost identical way, that same remark and criticism can be released to the DIP because the DIP results mainly through the person of the vice president and members of the commission, who, chosen by the General Court of the Supreme Court, is again the result of political will in HS, again the result of political will. As a rule, it seems to me in the largest part since the two most important parties at the time were HDZ and SDP, as a rule, at the will of these two political parties. Therefore, anyone who intends to attack can attack a guy like the Constitutional Court, and I disagree and reject that. Therefore, we will support this proposal in the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91462	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Let's move on, now it's the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, two colleagues will speak, first colleague Petrov, after him, a colleague of the Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91463	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The citizens clearly expressed their will, they gave over 400,000 signatures for the referendum, all we witness here today is stalling, stretching, avoiding and moving from a clear message. Citizens gathered 400,000 signatures, more than 400,000 signatures in 15 days, you set them a deadline to have the right to decide at the referendum. Why are you avoiding doing this? Why the whole debate today, so what you're doing, you don't want to define at all the time of the signing, secondly, the story of the referendum law you've been writing for 5 to 10 years. And we will discuss it today, and we will not argue. Go back to the beginning of the story, the beginning of the story and the main important message today for you people is about 410,000 people out there in Croatia said we want a referendum. Anything you need to do at that point if you respect these people for a way to get them there as soon as possible. You're going to talk today about how bad the referendum law is. Interesting. You may be talking about procedures, so they didn't fall out of some pasture, so you write procedures, you're the ruling majority, you can write in the conclusion of the draft parliamentary committee that you want to count the signatures within 30 days, it's you or you need someone from the European Commission who came to you by a corrupt minister. When something doesn't suit you, it's not us. I can't understand any behavior, is it ruling, are you determining or hiding from who you're hiding from? You say the main thing is you have to count the signatures correctly, so you stare at that OIB for 13 days or one minute he'll always have the same number of digits. The kid in the first grade of elementary school can read numbers, call them to help you, if you can't read numbers call the kids from the first grade of primary school, they'll be good practice, they'll be helpful, things are very simple. And what I would say is that the most absurd thing in the whole story of the day I've heard and at the debate on the council board is that you will talk and you will define what citizens are allowed to decide in a referendum and what they are not and that you will define it in the constitution. Who are you? The constitution states that power comes from the people. The people have the right to make decisions about whatever they want. Who are you? Would you like the moment you count the signatures to come here with a motion to vote, would you allow a referendum? What do you think you're doing? I'll repeat, the main and only message today to all of us here is that people signed 410,000 signatures within 15 days and that you need to find a way to make it possible for people to do so as quickly as possible. You don't get off on deadlines, you don't get off on procedures. Why? Because that's what you define. And don't be hypocrites, don't be Pharisees if you've defined people's deadlines to collect signatures, where you call them, volunteers that they don't have enough time to collect, and today you don't want to set your own deadline. What are you, a hypocrite? Forget stories and stories. You close the story, and we'll give you the conclusion tomorrow that within 30 days you need to count the signatures because that's what the people asked you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91464	It will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91465	After 3 days of completing the count of signatures under extremely difficult weather conditions, a unionist said that Most had knocked down the postulate of a referendum statement that he thought they were unsustainable, which is that the signatures could be collected in winter, he thought it was impossible and that a political party could succeed. Here, fellow Boric spoke, we had two referendums. So one initiated by the government by entering the EU and this referendum on marriage. So much for how difficult it is in Croatia and how much you have allowed citizens to express their will in the referendum. And what suggestions do we hear from both the rulings and the Boric and Djakic and Bačić, and what suggestions do we hear from the opposition, from the Grbins, from the team from Wei? Let's further make the referendum more difficult, let's go and set out the questions that citizens can actually say their position on. I also invite Grbin, I invite Bauk, I invite Tomasevic and Bencic to come out under Plenkovic's skirt. They hid under the skirt of an autocrat who doesn't want a referendum statement from the citizens and therefore protects this Staff. They're talking about a referendum as about an unwanted child with poor management of this crisis. Like, here, because you mismanaged the crisis happened to us a referendum. And what is a referendum? Something wrong? No, the referendum is a direct democracy, a referendum is an opportunity for citizens to say what they think about managing this crisis, these 2 years in which some criteria were valid for you, and other criteria were valid for Croatian citizens. The oak could have come out of self-insulation, and I'm looking at the other day, a man's fine of 8 thousand kuna is pounding because he came out of isolation the day before because he needed his hand for the ruling majority. You can party on the Pelješko bridge, you can fest mean in your headquarters, celebrate your election victories, and citizens can't and people have sent you a message that they've had enough, that they've had enough of this compromised Staff, that they want to decide here in HS by two-thirds majority, the largest possible one to prescribe the Croatian Constitution, but not about the deratization, how they like to lie to their colleagues, and the rest of the HDZ, because if these demands were adopted, all of these questions would be decided by the Minister of Health on the basis of the proposal of the Croatian Institute for Public Health, as well as so far. That's what we had before this epidemic. There have been measures before, and there have been various infections and threats, but you have brought in this Staff and you know who has assisted you? SDP. The SDP voted in favour of handing over the Staff and so this Djakic story about that there's a coalition here, no, you're in the coalition. You have voted this Constitutional Court, this disgraced Constitutional Court, you have brought such conditions to call a referendum, you are in the coalition. Two wings of the same party, meaning two wings of the same party, though, a little more communists went to HDZ and you've been working together this whole time. Djakic would have been better off, Djakic would have been better off reacting to it as HVIDRA president that Milorad Pupovac was in Banja Luka, rather than reacting to Dina Radje's statements. That would be better for him. What my message is here, Croatian citizens have sent you a message, your task is to count the signatures as quickly as possible. We'll ask that it be within a month, you've had 18 days, 18 days, and in us are several volunteers and were still Christmas and New Year's Eve, it counted in less than a month. How long will it take you, Habian? And what are you waiting for? You're waiting to get a moment from Berlin and Paris to cancel Covid's confirmation and say there's no point in a referendum anymore. There is, because this referendum is not only about Covid's confirmation, but it's about the Staff and it's about the decisions here at HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91466	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91467	Thank you. 238, my colleague Grumoja, you are in part right, we really want to make it difficult to call on some elements of the referendum, and this primarily concerns the number of votes in the referendum because the current constitutional restriction is too low and we want to limit some issues concerning human and minority rights, but we also want to facilitate the arrival of a referendum by reducing the number of signatures. Knowing your sense of justice, the next time you say it, then mention this part that goes in our favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91468	Thank you. This was a typical replica, so I have to give you a heads-up. I'm just reminding you, you've already got two.../incomprehensible/... this is a 2nd warning, so be careful. This, a respected representative, Ivanovic, also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 238, not only him, but also his colleague Petrov, bringing forth a series of lies to the HDZ account and insulting a man who is not at all present here at HS right now, and not talking about just one thing we should talk about. What waited until December 18 until January 24 until the signatures were submitted? Is there perhaps a hint of doubt that they were doing something they wanted to put in our laps?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91470	Like this, counterpart Ivanovic, this was, in fact, a very difficult replica. I agree that it's not correct, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it's not correct, of course, to call a person a name, especially if he's not here or semi-liminal, in fact, with someone who isn't here, it's not correct, it's not polite, but it's not against the Rules of Procedure, so I and you have to give a warning because it was actually, uh, a replica. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91471	Thank you, dear Vice President. Given your position, I'm guessing I'll get a warning, too, but I was going to point to an injury. 238, therefore, a deviation from the usual way of acting, i.e. behaviour in this HS. So, my colleague Grmoy turned to a colleague who was not present here, and he came to me knowing that I had no ability to replicate, and he brought forth a series of lies and slanders, not only to us, but generally to all members and members, so the party. So, I think he deserves a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91472	I agree with you, but it wasn't this, either, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I repeat, it's not correct, it's not polite, uh, to call names, who's either not here or you know he can't answer you. But it goes to the soul of anyone who acts like that. Comrade Petrov, you also have a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91473	A colleague, Ivanovic, was injured by an article. 238 and by risking the breach of the Rules of Procedure or punishment I will say, colleague Ivanovic, given all the services at your disposal, if we had done something as bad as black under the nails, we would have already put us where you went to put a 72-year-old who told you something on Facebook. That's where they'd put us. You've got nothing, you can only whine. But don't whine. Call a referendum! 410 thousand signatures are enough for you! 410 thousand people You've been told to call a referendum! [[Thank you very much, you said yourself that it was...]] What more do you want? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much! Enough! Enough, fellow Petrov!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91474	Enough, fellow Petrov, so don't knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, first they are what you say and then by extending time. At least you should know that. You've been both president and vice president of the Parliament, is that, that's not how it works, is it? Well, of course you'll get a warning. Comrade Kujundzic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91475	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238, I would basically, here, risking the reminder just to complete my colleague Ivanovic. So, I agree that a tape of doubt and might exist in and collect the number of signatures and everything else if there was a psychic Louvre. Since the visible Lovre is gone, it's all very clear here, at the end of the day, we know each other, we look into our eyes, I don't think it's fair within a referendum initiative like this that we, I don't know about, I don't know about, I don't know about, I don't know about, I don't know about, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it or something like that. I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91476	Okay. You're getting a warning. This, a respected representative, Simicevic, also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, come on, and then please, let's stop with all this nonsense, as a front-page violation of the Rules of Procedure that are not at all a violation of the Rules of Procedure but are actually a bickering of each other. Here you go. Okay. You're getting a warning. This, a respected representative, Simicevic, also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, come on, and then please, let's stop with all this nonsense, as a front-page violation of the Rules of Procedure that are not at all a violation of the Rules of Procedure but are actually a bickering of each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91478	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Petrov insults and disrespects MP Ivanovic only because he said they could hand over the signatures within 3 days, but did not surrender them, and now they are asking here to do so within 3 days. Well, I think he's insulting the conscience of all the MPs in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91479	Okay. And it was a replica of this, so you get a warning and let's get it over with with with these nonsensees, I beg you nicely. A colleague, Nicole Bartulic, has an injury, too, or not? Who's that? He's a friend of Grumo's. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91480	So he's hurt. 238, deception means a public representative 18... [[All right, I'll stop you right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91481	It's stupid because you know exactly that it doesn't say in that article. It's nonsense to claim that he's cheating on us MPs. [[What's stupid?]] that this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: Demeaning MPs]] So you get another one, you can't! [[Intruder: Disdaining public defenders, here, I've corrected myself, can I be corrected?]] You're getting a second warning! You're getting a second warning. [[/Intruder: Can't be corrected?]] Here you are, a respected representative on behalf of the Homeland Movement, distinguished representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I often point out that political elites in Croatia are alienated from ordinary people. This is not only true for politicians but also for members of the Constitutional Court and other institutions, so I am in advance expressing my skepticism and my critical position that many issues should be decided before the Constitutional Court. If they had decided, it certainly would not have been, there would have been no referendum on marriage, which is rightly defined in the Constitution, and I think it is important and necessary, therefore, it should be very delicately approached to this problem. But today we are talking about procedures, procedures, whether it should be a deadline or not, I have not yet heard a convincing answer as to why it is not set a time limit for what is to come, although it could be. We in the Homeland Movement supported this initiative, otherwise I think time shows that all of us who are very critical of the measures that I think it's pretty clear, are counterproductive were, we were right. So the people need to say what they think, very patiently our people are taking these measures all the time of the pandemic, almost 2.g. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't have the right to say ours. However, he would say something about our political culture in general. I often hear an observation that citizens so-called. ordinary people do not know who to address in the assembly, they do not know exactly who is representing them because of the Electoral Law and how to choose us representatives, and this leads to the conclusion that the impression exists, I think it is with the right of people that they think it is more what politicians think the party leaders think, in some way feel debt towards them for their mandate, and no, they do not look at voters what they think and therefore the referendum initiatives, although it is very demanding we all agree that the conditions are very difficult, within a short period of time so many signatures are collected, they succeed because people have a desire to express their will, raise their voice, say what they think about various topics and it is, it is not possible to say enough in Croatia. It needs to be made easier, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to make the referendums easier, not make it harder. So, so far, when key things had to be decided, for example, about Croatia's independence, the people knew the moment, and thank God for that. However, today is the 30th year. Later on, we see a certain way of saying alienation, and often it captures a variety of formalities to make things complicated, to keep things stalling and so forth, and I think it should be called the right name, so there are a lot of cynicisms, and also hypocrisy among the ruling structures, unfortunately. So I'd like to rule in this case not to look so skeptically at the work of so many volunteers that they are and I'll remind you once again that the Homeland Movement was involved in this, I think that sometimes it doesn't stand out enough, so it wasn't the Bridge alone in this initiative. I'm going to say that this is a good test, so it's mentioned how often the constitution needs to be changed, it's not a good practice to change it often, other countries don't. This, in principle, as a conservative politician, can be welcomed, can be agreed, but sometimes it is necessary, however necessary, some things need to be better defined and, explicitly, and then, in line with that, everything that comes out of it behaves. I have the impression that many of our politicians are acting like no 2013 marriage referendum has been held. They completely ignore it as a fact, when they are called to the constitution, to civil education as if it were the reason for constitutional patriotism, that our citizens need to know what their rights are, how institutions operate, and, accordingly, what the constitution says about marriage and family, but it does not stand in civil education but imposes other ideology. Therefore, we have various, various attempts to relativise what the Croatian people are looking for and think when they have a chance to say it. So we will continue with our proposals and here in the assembly to insist that this problem should be well defined, but in terms of facilitating the referendum, do not reduce people's expression space on various issues. I think it's clear multiple times that people even in winter conditions are ready and willing to get out of their commodity and eight hours a day stand and collect signatures to talk about it here today. Therefore, it should be respected. It is not true, this thesis often heard in public that in Croatia there is indifference, indifference, that all people are passive, that they have raised people from Croatia and the like. There are many reasons why people are unhappy, but it's not true they don't care, they care. This is what we see on this example, many did not expect to succeed in these conditions, I think it surprised many. Therefore, according to the fact that I am not getting into the metrics because I think it is still necessary to repeat that time shows that these measures have become counterproductive and people around the world are rightly awakened against them. I don't think we should be late in Croatia in that sense, or ignoring people's will. I'm saying, our people from my perspective have been very patient, and with reason, they've accepted everything that's gone wrong and why they're making it difficult to express themselves on this issue. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91483	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice, and the Honorable representative of Dalia will speak, and I'm sorry, I was wrong. The next Club of Representatives is the Social Democrats, and will speak to the respected representative Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is on February 3rd, '22. discusses the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Let's decide together’ and a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Enough of headquarters’. It is clear that the current Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of the state authority of local, regional (regional) self-government is bad and that the final proposal of the Law on Referendum should be put on the agenda as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament after almost 4.5 months have passed since the debate on this bill was held in the first reading and observations were made in the parliamentary debate. The Social Democrats' Club considers that it should not be delayed by putting on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament the Final Proposal for a referendum law and that the Ministry of Justice and Administration had enough time in almost 4.5 months to bring the bill into line with objections from the parliamentary debate and to carry out the process of inter-resorial improvement and to establish the Final Proposal of the Law on Referendum and refer it to the parliamentary procedure. I am aware that the draft Law on Referendum has long been acidified in drawers by the Ministry of Administration at the time, but there was obviously no political will or courage to let it into the government's procedure and then to the parliamentary debate, and we could remove the irregularities of the current law and today there would be no dispute over the deadlines in which the signatures should be handed over to the President of the Croatian Parliament, nor should the government control the number and credibility of the signatures collected. The current law lacks the development of a part of the procedure only carried out in the case of national initiatives, covering a period related to the collection of voter signatures as constitutional assumptions for the opening of a referendum of the People's Initiative. Therefore, the existing legal framework governing the referendum is, in one word, undermined because the correct deadlines for verifying the signatures to be carried out by the organisers are not prescribed, nor are deadlines, competent authorities, criteria, nor is the method of verification to be carried out by public authorities. Only the deadline within which the Constitutional Court should decide on fulfilling the assumptions for the opening of a referendum and constitutionality with a referendum issue, issues, and that is 30 days after such a decision has been requested by the Croatian Parliament. That deadline is provided for by the Constitutional Court constitutional law. Although the National Election Commission of the DIP, according to the provisions of the proposal of the Law on Referendum, which was discussed in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, would be the Authority for the monitoring of the referendum initiatives and the procedure for establishing the number and validity of the signature of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system did not accept the proposal of opposition representatives to be tasked with verifying the number of credibility of voters and requests for the call of a state referendum of the Civil Initiative, let's decide together and Enough of the stokerocracy has already been entrusted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with established practice in order to enable the monitoring of the procedure and credibility of the collection of signatures of at least 2 representatives of that civic initiative. And now we have the situation that HDZ suspects that MOST has collected a sufficient number of signatures in a legal manner for the referendum, and MOST still suspects that HDZ will steal their signatures. The president of the Republic also said the Most will try to steal the referendum. Do you love the state in which parliamentary parties mistrust in the institutions of public authorities and vice versa. Where is Djuro Glogoski now? Was he fighting for a country like this? The president of the Croatian Parliament says it is not good to accuse someone of stealing in advance. It is true that it is not good, but only if citizens had confidence in the institutions of public authorities and state officials and the ethical integrity of all would be unquestioned. But since we had a ministry, it is clear at the Ministry of Administration of a Lovre Kuščević who is suspected of the crimes of illegal re-use of agricultural land which he has committed as head of the municipality of Nerežić that they are also smoking cold and that MOST suspects that the government will honestly determine the number and credibility of the signatures collected. Let us not forget that there is APIS, APIS is the one that should only be made aware of the list of voters and the OIB register and the main criterion for valid signature is that citizens entered in the register of voters and the second criterion that the name and last name is clearly written in the corresponding signature and the reading of the OIB. There's 40 to 50 people technically doing this job and I don't think any policy can affect them. All that matters to them is that they will receive money for their work and overtime that will obviously be needed. On the other hand, the ruling complains to the MOST that he waited too long to hand over the signatures even though they claimed to have enough numbers. In the above conclusions, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system also calls on the government to verify whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with Article 8c. The law. The Organisational Committee shall therefore be obliged to report and the places in which the declaration of signature will be held 5 days before the date of the entry into force of the declaration. Therefore, any party doubts the legality and regularity of the conduct of the other party, and we cannot predict the date when the referendum could possibly be held because HDZ has already announced that it will seek constitutionality of the referendum issue or the assessment of constitutionality from the Constitutional Court. At the Social Democrats' Club, it is extremely important for us to allow citizens to plead in a referendum as a form of direct voter decision on issues of public interest. The referendum as an instrument of direct, direct democracy in which voters directly decide on political issues of public interest should not be pre-contaminated with suspicion of the legality of the proceedings in its conduct. If these two citizens' initiatives have indeed collected more than 400,000 signatures and have just ruled in the proposal for a referendum law proposed a provision to the DIP, that the DIP is responsible for verifying the accuracy and complete data on signatories entered in the signed lists at the very least wonders to refuse the ruling opposition proposals at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to do so in the case of these two civil initiatives if they do not have the figure in their pocket. In this way, they unnecessarily bury themselves and give what they can to those who say they intend to steal the referendum. You really didn't need that. And that is why the Social Democrats' Club will not support the findings of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Let's move on. What if it is determined that it has a sufficient number of authentic signatures? The ruling has already announced that it will lift the hand brake and seek an assessment of the constitutionality of referendum issues. The Social Democrats' Club believes that the people should be given the opportunity to make a direct statement in a referendum whenever a sufficient number of voters' signatures are collected in accordance with the law, but we think now is the right time to change the constitution in a way that sets out a list of issues not to be decided in the referendum. This list of issues should certainly be about limiting or reducing fundamental human rights, including the right to the health and rights of minorities, and on other issues of public interest should not prevent citizens from deciding on a referendum. Rulers should be in the interest of hearing the voice of the people directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91485	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91486	Respected, above all, to be quite clear, the Center and Party GLAS Club believes that the organisation of this referendum was not necessary, we believe that it is primarily motivated by the desire to obtain political points, while protecting citizens' rights is at least important because there is no higher and no more important right than the right to health and to prevent fatal outcomes under the terms of the pandemic. I therefore condemn political parasiticism to the fear of vaccines, but today it is not a topic, nor is it a subject of headquarters, nor is it a subject of covid certificates or any other epidemiological measures. Today's about who's counting the signatures. Not long ago, they were gathering and counting signatures for the presidential election. As one of the candidates, I had the right to be present to check the signatures that were carried out immediately after these signatures were handed over here to HS and usually the presidential candidates checked the right to attend and I stayed with them, on the one hand because I wanted to see what the process in reality looked like, and on the other hand because in this small symbolic way I wanted to give recognition to everyone who helped me to collect the signatures because it was really, really hard. I wish what I've already had a chance to see, all Croatian citizens would see. Namely, in the “Josipa Jelačića” hall, it seems to me that in another or two halls were placed round tables on which there were several ten-score inter-net computers, each of the referents, each of the employees who sat behind these computers had their own list of signed papers, so by typing one name and last name and belonging to the OIB, they checked the authenticity and credibility of the data and signatures, so not by the method of some random selection of samples but literally each of the individual signatories until they reached the required number of 10,000 and one. Therefore, the signature check was carried out by the DIP, the State Election Commission, of course through the system set up by the APIS in this technical sense. And yes, at that point in time, by following that process, I was as terrified as anyone who was waiting for the results of something in which a tremendous amount of effort was put into very difficult conditions, but at the same time I was impressed and proud because I saw what the state or what an independent state body could do whenever it wanted. And I repeat, I do not agree with Mosto, this referendum should not have been organised or initiated, but who is HDZ to take the right to count their signatures by humiliating the institutions of the state that could carry out this work in a way that can guarantee all citizens that the verification process will be objective and fair. So the biggest problem of the state is mistrust in the institutions, and that is the situation that most corresponds to this and this kind of corrupt HDZ. And a signature check through the DIP can show the value of an institution in that it can professionally and independently do a job for which, by the logic of things, that institution should exist. By ruling against this proposal and by justifying themselves that such a thing is not possible because the law did not explicitly prescribe it, I ask you, no matter what law, this '96 law. which changed in 2001, then 2006, then in 2007, then in 2009, 2016, 2017, so I ask you how long it's been in the past 30 years. How long has the Croatian state of HDZ had power and what has not been the opportunity for this key issue to be implemented so far by the referendum and norms properly? Well, after all, even now that the Bridge has announced that it will go to that signing initiative, wasn't there enough time to be instructed to make an appropriate amendment in HS, so have we forgotten that the HS laws changed overnight when someone was to be kidnapped or taken away, let's just remember how and within what time the Agror Act was passed? Is it possible that this Bridge initiative and the need for authentic signature checks surprised you like snow in the winter? I will also remind myself that even before I became an MP, I have submitted a draft Anti-Corruption Strategy in which I have explicitly explained that the reform of electoral legislation is something that must become an integral part of all anti-corruption strategies and policies, and then I have made the same proposal in the already elaborated draft formally now that I am a parliamentary representative and, of course, by ruling on such a strategy, they do not want to even discuss it. And we need to know that indeed the legitimacy of the election processes is the first question on which we will either confirm or fall as a real functional democracy, this is how we really become, every day, an increasingly ordinary party state in which the party in power is equated with the notion of states. HDZ shouldn't have any rights to such a thing. Obviously, we will have to wait for a first next chance to change power in order to introduce some simple technical methods through electronic signature collection, so we would not have to go to these checks as well as an electronic vote both in the elections and in the referendums. Until then, I appeal once again to let the State Election Commission check the signatures, do that process in public because every other way in the hands and direction of the HDZ has been compromised in advance as your entire authority has been compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91487	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91488	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to democracy, few of which is so important and strong and transparent, are direct and express the will of the people, as is the case with the referendum. At the end of the 9th month last year in our first reading, we had the referendum law on the agenda, and there was indeed a heated debate. The only thing that came to the conclusion is that we definitely need a revision of the law that has been in force and the law and the institute of a referendum that has been in force since the '90s. We need him because the current arrangements have found a grudge for those who need to dissipate him as well as those who need to spend it. Today, however, we are not gathered to discuss a referendum and amendments to the referendum law but two referendum initiatives and two questions. The signing of the referendum initiative ended on 18.12. last year, and the signatures were handed over to the assembly more than a month later and 24.1. which is actually quite a long period for the classical handover of signatures. This referendum initiative has 2 segments. The first constitutional question is about Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia when deciding to suspend fundamental human rights and freedoms temporarily. Therefore, it is a constitutional referendum, and the addition of Article 17 is proposed. The Constitution, with an explicit indication of the epidemic or pandemic as a reason for the state of emergency. We can say that this initiative wants to further crystallise the Constitution. Generally, this is not such a problem, but it would not be any news, because we were able to apply Article 17 theoretically and so far, and consider this situation to be a sufficient natural disaster, which has already been announced in this regard by the Constitutional Court. In addition, the amendments and additions to the Civil Protection Act were adopted 2/3 to most parliamentary representatives, meaning that we finally know what was written in the light of the 2020 Constitutional Court's decision when the Constitutional Court explained and gave official interpretations of the application of Articles 16 and 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is said that restricting the rights and freedoms relating to such a situation is now a state that has been going on for some time in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. From point 26, then again points 28 in the exclusive domain of the Croatian Parliament. All this suggests that this initiative is ultimately unnecessary. However, I think that the second referendum initiative is still something for a club that I represent even more problematic for a number of reasons. First of all, the legal nature, and the constitutional legal experts whose opinion should also not be ignored, have said so. Asking for the Croatian Parliament to adopt security measures at the time of the pandemic, and not some executive body, is problematic primarily because of the principle of the government's trinity. Can the legislative authority take over the executive powers by law rather than by the basis of the Constitution? And it is clear to the average lawyer that the law cannot alter the division of the authorities or that the law cannot take away the executive powers. Finally, we are constantly talking about how the legislative apparatus is trom and slow, and now, for reasons of quasipragmatism of the operational decision that should sometimes be taken quickly and on a daily basis, it could become the jurisdiction of the legislative authority's dispute. At least it is quite illogical as it is illogical and that the disputed one is considered only and exclusively a measure in the form of a Covid certificate. How do these differ from other measures, such as crossing the border or the allowed number of present at an event? I think that here we come to the epilogue of the whole situation because exactly the Covid certificates were decided differently by the Constitutional Court and, according to the current practice of the Constitutional Court and the positions they have taken in connection with the decision of the Civil Protection Headquarters, it is almost impossible for them to now take a diametrically opposite stance or to approach the limitations of rights and freedom in a different way. This second question, if I may say a legislative referendum for us and more seriously, is causing constitutional problems that could make it difficult to pass a constitutionality test in front of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, of course, if that step occurs. Thus, the current practice of referendum initiatives has at one point turned into a means of future party and ideological platforms and for their political promotion. This practice, which in some cases focused on challenging the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, such as national equality and gender equality, has seriously burdened and compromised the Institute of Referendum. Such poor practices and experience of the need for a referendum to limit the rights of smaller people and to create intolerance towards minorities should also be taken into account when making a new law. This epidemic is dangerous and it's taking too long, but it doesn't give any of us the right to behave casually and stop measures, especially since we have to be aware that our measures compared to some other countries were actually quite mild. That's why we can't possibly be naive and use such important topics and human lives in social political bickering and politics, which is obviously the goal of some, over 50, 60, 70 dead people a day, giving no one the right to do that. Human and civil rights fighters must represent universal values, and not today freedom can, and tomorrow freedom can't, so it doesn't work. As SDSS Representatives' Club, we support and adhere to measures that bring positive regulations to certain bodies and we will do so in the future. Because of all of this, we do not support referendum initiatives because they do not care about health and the most important thing about human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91489	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91490	I thank the chairman. I'd like to remind you of the chronology that we've actually come to this point. 23.4.2000., so about 2 months after the start of the pandemic, our colleague Damir Bakic wrote on Facebook the following, what he wrote was actually transmitted by all the media. He said today the government presented the programme and the dynamics of easing measures to curb the coronavirus infection, we patiently and disciplinedly followed the instructions, followed the provisions, stopped school and production, friends and family looked away, we did everything we asked for, and finally welcomed the government's decision to ease restrictions in public life, but that decision is embarrassing. She's a real social scandal and political debacle. It is not in public but in experts to assess if measures should be gradually mitigated in the interests of the entire community. But when the conditions come to pass, on May 2nd, the health authorities feel that we can return to the most important moment. What's most important? School? Production? No, we can go back to the church. What he still pointed out in his text is that the whole story of relaxing measures where he was not allowed to go back to school was also heartless to the students. Not only heartless and carefree but she showed the essence of things, which is that neither students nor school are truly concerned about this government, but she cares about those of course who are partners and hold a ladder in public when they need it. It was a church back then. And even though you were aware that our most vulnerable citizens are going to church right now because very often they are citizens of an older age, you gave in to the institutions of the church, and you didn't actually care about the health of the citizens. However, the government's decision, which counterpart Bakic immediately saw as the inconsistency of the headquarters that would lead to the collapse of the trust system, was, in fact, the end of a very short successful period in pandemic management and that period which rested on the citizens' trust in experts and health workers, and the understanding that we are meeting as a community with an unknown virus and unknown illness. From that day until today, and especially since our entry into the assembly, we have consistently sought to improve pandemic governance, not in a way that goes outside, criticise the headquarters, and not make any proposals, but that right here through dialogue, through the institutions we try to bring together those measures that will have a social consensus here. We have suggested that on rational grounds based on health data, a scoreboard is introduced to introduce measures, but also to get out of measures so that people know why we are going into action and when we can expect to get out. That's turned down. We have also proposed a different way of managing crisis management within the health system, we have also proposed a way to improve it, improve the conditions of intensive care, and we have repeatedly asked for decisions on measures to be taken by a two-thirds majority, not by all measures, but by those who are more serious about human rights. And all that, all that HDZ refused. Therefore, HDZ has inconsistencies, irrationally and unfairly managed this crisis, and there it is, by all counts, guilty. The result at the end tells you yourself. Croatia has almost the most today, in second place we seem to be in the EU by the number of dead per million people, and in the world eight, in the world eight, among the top 10, EU member states. And we should actually stand here today and tear down the HDZ government because of the disastrous results in pandemic management that HDZ has not gotten some great partners along the way that it will actually give you an alibi for all the failures you made since April 2020 until today, in a way that this partner will give HDZ itself the opportunity to pass part of the blame on to someone else because the partner has entered with a brand-new tactics, and this was a tactics to support the opponents of vaccination, relativizing the importance of vaccination in the fight against pandemic and contrast, counter-positioning so-called. free choice against the value of solidarity and responsibility to the community and to society. So today, instead of talking about the responsibility of the prime minister and the government for the amazingly poor results of managing this pandemic, we are talking about the actual shared responsibility of 2 persons of the same medal each in their own way, but each with the same goal, which is the motivation that is based solely on the acquisition of political points. Thus, measures were introduced and implemented in the way HDZ thought it had been notified at some point. So there were exceptions to how you estimated that you had been opportunized. You can't have churches, you can't have schools. It's okay while it's tourist season, it can't be later. That was your motivation. But also the motivation to call this referendum was not, is not the goal of positioning the political will of citizens and that citizens really say what they think about the headquarters, the goal was actually the wave of dissatisfaction in the midst of the worst wave of the pandemic when 60 people die daily to gain a certain political advantage by launching an initiative for the referendum. And that actually contributes to this whole double-tactic farce that we've been looking at for a year and a half, which is that the whole pandemic is governed exclusively by political motives. Not with public health motives, not with motives to protect human health, but with opportunism. Because of this opportunism, too many people die daily because of this opportunism, people did not want to vaccinate because of this opportunism with the right of people do not believe in a single word the government says about the pandemic, not a single word, and therefore they did not vaccinate. However, I will say that regardless of the political motivations and objectives of the drivers of the referendum initiative, this referendum should now be seen through the prism of all those who signed it. And it was signed by those citizens who did nothing to contribute to this double tactics of destroying any excessive and rational pandemic dialogue. The over-supervised and rational dialogue where we kept insisting even when we didn't benefit from it because it was always in the first place, first of all, to find those solutions that would protect the lives of our citizens and save the public health system from collapse. So, when we, as members of the Constitutional Committee, supported the opposition committee's proposal to sign the coup within the deadline, to count them by the DIP, not by the government of which more than the signatories and the initiative no one trusts, when we asked that at least this referendum take place in a way that will reflect the citizens who asked for what we were looking for and what we gave support was to return at least a minimum of trust to the institutions. The institutions of the parliament, the institutions and the institutions of the government regarding this pandemic. We know that trust with the government can no longer be restored, that's clear to you, but we wanted to show that at least at that moment we can keyly remove any suspicion that at least the signatures will count fairly. And that's what HDZ said no. Therefore, HDZ once again played a double dog with a partner on the other hand, refused rational and feasible proposals and gave cause and reason to raise doubts and mistrust in the signing system. That's what you gave and that's that double tactics, that's those two sides of the same medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91491	Thank you very much. Now we will move to individual debates with that I would like to say at first, I was extremely liberal during this debate on behalf of the clubs and I was letting it go in great width and talked often about everything other than the topic itself. And the topic as you know is to call a state referendum for these two referendums. I ask you all in advance to stick to the topic that we should discuss, not to talk about everything and everything. Here it is, we need to say it in advance so we don't know it later. And now the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will never provoke your newfound liberalism I will try to fully stick to the subject. The referendum initiative declared that it had collected 410,000 signatures for one referendum and 409.000 signatures for the second referendum. If, if we do not deviate from the current criteria and practice of counting the number of signatures and establishing a certain number of invalid signatures, then the final result should be, on average, something above the number needed to call a referendum so that we may also be expected to have a next debate on the constitutionality of the issues of either one or both of them and on the calling of a referendum or a reference to the Constitutional Court. It's something that's common knowledge. It is certainly the legitimate right of political parties to support the collection of signatures, including those who were against, and those who did not declare that the fact that the number of signatures collected is used in political debates. But somehow it's too much of a serial call to call the people. In fact, we remember that whenever someone calls on the people in these places, it doesn't end well by starting with that first syntagm which falls on me at the time of my older underage of the people's events and beyond. So for the list of restart coalitions in the 2020 elections, which we said was lost by 414615 voters, so more than the initiatives have collected signatures. And we never called on the people, and they voted for us in one day and they could choose between 50 parties, and they had 15 days here and they didn't have to choose just whether to sign or not. So the word "people" should not, so a sufficient number of citizens have signed the initiatives. Okay. You have to count the signatures, if there are over the number that's been determined we'll discuss the metrics, I've already said about the first question I have no problem with, as far as the second question is concerned I'll think about it and that's that. I don't like the rest of the call to the people. If we're going to call on the "people" of the MOST colleagues, there's something I have to tell you, I have good news and bad news. You were voted by 123194 voters in the last election. It's on Monday by election unit 12319. We've got 10 election papers. For me, Arsena Bauk the candidate voted 13466. It means more than the average for your entire list in Croatia, so I don't refer to the people. I'm sure out of these 13,000 people who voted for me, a good number signed your initiative and I have to represent them. But I'm also sure a good number of these isn't. In fact, what you might blame me for is that I'm not hard enough on you. So I avoid using that kind of rhetoric. Of course you are right, I can only answer that by trying to be such as not to make our joint opposition action impossible on those topics that we agree on. But around those we disagree on, people have to see the difference between us and you. Because a siren call sometimes comes to you putting us in the same basket with HDZ. Okay. We can say that, but you've brought HDZ to power twice, not us. Maybe we brought him in by bad work sometimes. But even after that, the people chose, even though most people wanted a shift, they wanted you to come with us to the 2015 coalition with them, so the people. Therefore, the referendum should not be a substitute for representative democracy but rather a supplement. What you have suggested and here you are and in part right we have represented similar views on the functioning of the Staff, not exactly the same but similar to the application of certain constitutional standards. To avoid the full debate on the HDZ Most, the vote will receive the language of soup in the next debates. So, if you'd listened to us, and you might not have been more vaccinated and there might be fewer people who died of covid, but for that I have no proof but only indications, so I can't charge you in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91493	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91494	So, Comrade Bauk, you compare incomparably. The elections so where in every city, place, village in Croatia we have a polling post, where we have a pre-election campaign, where one good part of the people, means that in 14 days we could come to an unknown 50% of the Croatian voters would probably have signed the number is 800 000 or a million. So we cannot compare a referendum statement where we in every place in Croatia did not have an election stand. So these are incomparable things. So I warn you that this is not comparable at all, so you can't call on how many parties have received votes in the elections and that there are a large number of people in a short time, in difficult weather conditions in which we didn't have so many volunteers that we have a booth in each village. So 410,000 people signed it, the incomparable thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91495	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91496	I agree, so that's why we suggested, it would even be a stronger argument for you to extend the deadline. So in one of our proposals and it seemed to me to be the proposal for a 2015 referendum law that also passed the first reading. Obviously our fate is repeated, then the disbanded parliament so did not come to another reading we suggested increasing the deadline to 30 days. And in 30 days, a really good organisation of this job would allow these smaller environments to take 30 days. In smaller environments it's enough three, four days to be in one place and moving on, going to the other middle of the same volunteers. That's possible. After all, when we go to the campaign, we do not go to the candidates to cross all cities and municipalities. Let's just say I know that in the campaign, the only municipality that's in our constituency that I haven't been to is Zablja. One day, I'm gonna go in private and see that community too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91497	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91498	Well colleagues, wine and milk are incomparable such a referendum, collecting signatures, elections are incomparable, you will agree. Here we were first candidates, I got a little more votes than you for mayor and it doesn't have to be relevant at all. In parliamentary elections, someone gets preferential votes more, someone less. This is about a referendum, about the direct decision of the people. And I really can't get enough of those initiatives that have passed. But in very difficult weather conditions that we can take into account all we don't know which referendum was collected in winter, where more than half the time was very rainy or very cold weather. So I would thank only once again from this pay phone to all volunteers, mainly here and the SDPs, and also the HDZs from my area who were very agile and active and collected a large number of signatures there. Thank them and all the volunteers, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91499	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91500	As I said, so one part of the people who voted for us or for me must have signed this, and one part of it criticized me in the inbox, not publicly, why don't we get stronger and invite people to sign, and the other part of the people who voted for me, so here I'm talking about an individual debate was also texting me why you don't stand up harder against the Mostos. So, then, and now which people should I represent here, my colleague, the Grmoy? Both because when they voted for us, it wasn't about what you said. So, we're going with a fair approach to counting votes, these signatures, to make it right, not to remain tails. That's what we suggest to HDZ because imagine who else will listen to you for 2 years. to say that your referendum was stolen, so rather, we'd rather go to a referendum than, yes, to give you room to do that 2.g. Speak up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91501	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do in an individual debate, first of all look around, my colleague Bauk is not a problem for us to listen to, but what really happened is, that's, that's, I'm more prone to it than being very tired of statements, eating or slandering that something was done, which is not, therefore it's important. That way, there will be no reps for this referendum, and because of the possibility that they could not participate in the signature check, representatives of both initiatives and other initiatives will participate, and in this way there is no doubt that something could happen there. It couldn't have been done before because they were invited to be representatives of the initiative to verify any removed signature that had been declared invalid. I also said that to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and I suggested, firstly, that, with the counting, they would be observers, but then I said one more thing which, which was not transmitted, is that this credibility in the accusations, slanders, infidelity and not believing in the accuracy of the signature would have been stronger and better that the observers had been involved since the first moment that they started in the initiative, when, when the signing at the stands was done and later when it was being collected, they were counting, sorting and putting into boxes and the signatures and those lists that would then certainly be completely transparent and there was, there was a debate on this process which here today in the assembly continues with this decision. As far as this subjugation of the referendum, the Law on Referendum, you know, this law was originally passed to me in 1996, so before the 26th year, no more than 10 governments have changed since then, 10 governments and I think 14 or 15 management ministers, whether they were ministers, whether they were justice and administration ministers or just administration ministers. So, among other things, 14 of them seem to me to be, that two of the Bridge's ministers, or ministers, were three or four, three of them, I think, if I'm not mistaken for the SDPs. Therefore, when it comes to this right-hand side of the assembly, about how much we are, whether we want to cancel and prevent people from going to the referendum, you can also ask yourself about your own responsibility, which is why this has not happened, and it is not because someone in this right-hand side of the assembly would prevent it but simply the right to amend and bring legislation that is, which is, which is good for the implementation of the referendum, does not lie in the referendum law but lies in the constitution. The Constitution has provided a basic framework for the referendum, and the Law on Referendum does this in a certain way, but the number of signatures collected, the quorum of decision-making and the topics that can be discussed although the constitution is not defined, but the broad interpretation of the constitution defines them, those in the constitutional court. The second thing I wanted, therefore, was this law which, relating to the "Let's decide together", the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" that goes towards two-thirds, towards, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to change, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, Well, the legitimate question is, why doesn't the other EU Member States do this to the two-thirds majority first, and the second is that if that two-thirds majority doesn't come forward, and knowing how difficult it is for us in the assembly to establish any consensus project and... The technical law that comes to us from Europe so we accept it all whether, and then not all of them, I think it is quite unrealistic to expect that this assembly in the two-thirds majority to be on an urgent and rapid scale that the nature of the pandemic could agree on today if this proposal came this morning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given our procedures, on ours, on the work of HS, I think it would go very, very, very far, to make the epidemic its own, and we would still agree here, we would talk and in general such a conversation might be more of a request for concessions on something that is not related to the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91503	Thank you. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91504	Thank you. You've given a historical depiction that's true in many ways in 2014. The parliamentary majority then proposed constitutional changes concerning the referendum and 2015. The Committee on the Constitution proposed the first reading of the Law on Referendum, so we know these things and we support them. A very similar proposal was proposed by the government in this referendum law, and a very similar position, which was formally supported by representatives of Radin, Pupovac and today the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic who signed, co-signed our proposal to change the constitution in the previous conference, also more or less agreed. My question is, will we work it out together to close this story in this convocation of the Croatian Parliament even if we change the Constitution pointically or not? I have nothing else to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91505	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91506	My colleague Bauk, you ask me what you know the answer to. The will of the right side of the assembly is not enough, but also the left. And when you talk about 2014, 2015, when you were Minister and you had the ruling majority of changes to the Constitution for which you needed hands and HDSSB which had purposed to support changes to the Constitution and asked for regionalisation of Croatia broke down on Croatia's.../incomprehensible/... coalition at the time, the Kukuriku coalition was then because the IDS was very thin to say the least when it came to regionalisation that would lead to the abolition of Istria as a county and not a wider region. Therefore, it is not a change in the Constitution, if the change in the Constitution would only be linked exclusively to these two things, and why have I not seen that there is an agreement in this, in this assembly then it would be very easy to do so so far, so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91507	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91508	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear colleague, you did well today in your debate to point out that this proposal for a decision is, in fact, referred to the government for signatures to verify credibility and to determine the exact number of signatures collected. However, all the time the opposition has questioned the government that will do the job, even though we explained why we were going in this direction with the draft decision. It is said, however, that the representatives of the initiative will participate in the process. Does this mean that they don't believe them or do they want to be politically involved here all the time just to point out that the government doesn't want anything, that it doesn't want the will of the people or that I don't know what this is about? Your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91509	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91510	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. The government will count, it won't be the ministers, nor the secretary of state. The government will make it a commission like it did the last time. In this commission, I assume that it will be the body, the institution of the Croatian state that has it capacitated in the human rights administrative sense that can do so. And I assume the representatives of the Personal Data Protection Agency. And yet it's a little harder for me to accept as a man who I know that it should work that just one whole, one institution that has a large number of employees, which has its own hierarchy, along the way, and another agency that also has a large number of employees force it to do something that's illegal. It's almost unacceptable to me that something like that could happen, and it would stay under the grain for five, six years. It's unacceptable to me, especially now that even as you said and how we suggested participating citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91511	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91512	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague Bačić is here all the time, with everything else in the debate, constantly passing through different directions and meals and accusations of who will count and who believes in counting or verifying these signatures. I couldn't replicate it because there was a debate about the club, the president of the MOST says that now the government needs some time, it's counted by a check, and if we can't count, if we can't get the first-class champions to eat. So my question is how did it take them, that it took them even a month from the deadline when the signings were closed, say they had few volunteers, why they didn't serve first-class children or just tell them how unrealistic they are and how much they use all the tools to defuse the work of institutes and institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91513	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91514	Thank you, fellow Murganic. I think that, that the representatives of the initiative, both at the beginning and before the launch of the referendum, publicly announced that they had already received 50,000 interested volunteers. Here's a colleague, Petrov, said it was down to the five-six volunteers who worked, I don't know where they lost their volunteers along the way so that a great deal of success would be counting, not before... that's what needs to be done. I think about counting votes it was the simplest procedure, I think it would be the hardest procedure to put into boxes. In fact, there's no need because you don't have the possibility of subsequent, you shouldn't actually, after the deadline is over and the deadline for the signings is over, no more interventions in the lists, you can just put them away because if you intervene in those lists then it's against the law. Therefore, it was the responsibility of the organisational committee to propose it, to place it in boxes, not to control the credibility of these signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91515	Next replica, respected representative of Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91516	Dear colleague Bačić...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91517	You want to stop throwing out of the club, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91518	I want time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91519	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91520	Dear colleague Bacic, I can see that you do not believe the initiative that they have collected the signatures in the right way, they do not trust you to properly count them. I'm going to suggest a concrete solution. You said you'd be formed commission, let some of that commission be people from the initiative, first thing. The second thing, verification or entry of data on signatures should be done in a way to enter the signature so that.../incomprehensible/... verification, but verification should be done by the people of the initiative. In the same company where the data is processed and entered. And thirdly, send a notice to all those on the list, on their e-Citizen's box that they signed the initiative and those who didn't sign it, let it come out that he didn't sign the initiative. You'll see right away if they actually signed or didn't sign. They'll know if they've collected enough signatures, so you'll verify correctly and everything will be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91521	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91522	I thank my colleague Pavić. This proposal of yours is a valuable contribution to the control of the signature. I wouldn't go into it, I'm a representative here in the Croatian Parliament and I would leave the methodology of verification to be defined at government level along with civil initiatives both. We exclusively aim at the Croatian Democratic Community, and now I am speaking as a representative to determine the exact number of signatures not one more, not one less. None of this will be obtained nor is it in anyone's interest to remove from the list a man who actually signed it. You know you don't get into a graphological signature check here. Here you just enter the basic data and that's how you do the checking yourself, and the procedure that you've suggested is that citizens who have given their signature via the e-Citizens system check out I don't know what the Personal Data Protection Agency is going to say about it. I'm not here to end up being sensitized. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91523	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91524	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, I think it is absolutely true that history is a teacher of life. And we've been through a series of things, and I'm not going to ask you at all about the credibility of the signature, the authenticity. About this, so we're in early 2022. We're all talking about what happened five, ten or fifteen years ago. But what I'm sure we should finally make a decision and see that we are going to amend and supplement the referendum law in a section that has to be defined so we don't have a debate here. Because we have debates here because there are some issues or dilemmas opening up there. I am not a supporter of the amendments to the Constitution only that when someone fits or fits, my constitution is the brightest, somehow the strongest acts of this country and that is what we need to take care of. But I am a supporter of trying through the referendum law to define what we can not have these discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91525	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91526	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. To keep me open to the end. In the whole referendum procedure, what we're discussing today, this is the simplest question for me, the simplest question. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think it's a referendum that counts. The major fundamental problems in the regulation of the referendum are based in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Only real change and the possibility of access to the referendum will be when the Constitution is changed. I think it's 10% full and it's 15 days short. That's my attitude. I'm also reducing the number and extending the time to collect signatures. That's the first thing. But I would also change the quorum, which is important, the quorum who will decide what. We here in the House make some laws and make decisions by a two-thirds majority, some we make qualified, some we usually make. I think something on that trail when certain questions should be prescribed by a referendum And this seems to be a less important question. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91527	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91528	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you yourself said about fifteen ministers passed through this year, so we have God's thanks, and I believe in the Croatian Parliament of Ministers of the Most Ministers we had the minister of administration, police, justice if I'm not mistaken. There was so much time, I think, during Minister Bauk's two initiatives were around the Cyrillic and another initiative was "In the Name of the Family". None of them have passed except one in the name of the family that passed first. These others were all stopped. Today, all the after-brains are coming. The right to sign the signature is there, the update and counting I believe will be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. The Lords have the right to do so, but in this way and with this kind of momentum of badness, we sometimes wonder why?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91529	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91530	Thank you, colleague Deur. So we hear that in Croatia, in its 30 years, there has been a complete demeaning of the citizens' direct decision in the referendum. But almost all the referendums for which the signatures were collected have won their success whether the referendum was carried out on the one hand or on the other hand that the government accepted what the referendum required or that the government gave up what the people opposed through the presentation and the signing of the referendum. Therefore, these referendums, except for those two, seem to me that have not collected a certain number of votes, I apologize, have practically resulted in the will of one part of the citizens 10, 15, 20 or not knowing how much of these signatures have resulted in the fact that or the laws have not been passed. or accepted in the Constitution or law such one. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91531	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic if he allows us colleagues Grmoja and Bulj and stops talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91532	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, not reducing the success of MOST in collecting these signatures, but anyone who is even a little concerned with politics will understand that, in fact, behind both referendum initiatives is hiding something else, and I would say that even as it hides behind these, both referendum initiatives would make it very difficult for this already existing difficult situation when it comes to the crown and the fight against the crown. To amend two articles of the Constitution, i.e. to apply Article 17. And article 16 speaks enough today about who needs to take care of and who takes care of these things that happen. And the other thesis that's been going on around here for the last year and the culprit is absolutely for all of it is the two-thirds majority. I think it would be absolutely wrong and now it's hard to get some things in, and if we introduce such a thing, I think it would make it very difficult for the processes that are still very difficult... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91533	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91534	So, since we often insist on formal accuracy of these two initiatives in a formal sense, two, these two referendums or referendum issues have been implemented by citizens' initiatives, which want to praise the Bridge as its own, but formally legally speaking and here today we are talking about the initiative, the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together!" and "Enough of the storks", it is not a political party, but these are groups of citizens who, like here and fellow Bauk said that in this referendum and collecting signatures, maybe there are volunteers of his. So here maybe here's my colleague, Bauk, is in this initiative through, through his constituents, which he just mentioned. And here I agree with you in, at the core, in the metric of these two referendums is the abolition of the covid certificate and on the other hand making it difficult to take measures to... Alone, fighting the pandemic itself. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91535	Thank you. Honorable representative Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91536	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, in today's debate, we have heard several times that part of the opposition requires faster treatment. In order for the referendum itself to be in fact and there has been a legal procedure in several phases as prescribed and since the start of the initiative there has been some doubt, in particular, that there may be irregularities in this signing process. That's why it's proposed to observe what I think is an excellent thing. Do you feel that at this stage, it is still more important than speed itself? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91537	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91538	Thank you, colleague Blažević. I may have said that even in the opening, and I certainly said that on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that no one will honor any or any other organisational committee of this referendum if, if, in these boxes, there are five votes more than they have declared, or 1500 less than those declared, no one will tell them, they will tell them, they are partners, volunteers, etc., and then there would be no way to subscribe to them, nor would anyone transfer that voice more or less, but if, if the government had given it publicly, miscounted, it would have wronged, then it would have gone all the way to accuse the government and us in the ruling majority, and therefore it is more important than the deadline for certain initiatives and government to say that there are so many votes, so many signatures, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91539	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91540	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, we heard a lot of thoughts today and even manipulation, etc., and I will discuss it more in an individual debate. For the past two months, however, they have marked two messages that I am experiencing in the media space and here at the assembly that was being sent. So the first is “the people decide” and the second is “we will abolish the covid certificate” with such initiatives. They agreed to the questions that were given to the citizens and I had already said something about it in the replica, in a way that Grmoja asked the people to sign or the citizen to re-authorize him to make two-thirds decisions on behalf of him, on behalf of that same people. Now, if it was manipulation, it wasn't, who tried who, that's what we'll see. Now what I'm still interested in. Why do you, do you think that, say, the Bridge with 8 MPs is the creator of some two-thirds majority in HS as they presented themselves, whether these 8 depend on whether there will be two-thirds majority in the assembly and whether the two-thirds majority will be able to abolish the covid confirmation that they suggest it again to Croatian citizens, are they?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91541	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91542	Comrade Boric...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91543	Will we stop the bench, please, colleagues, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91544	...I'll quote, I'll quote one attitude that I think is enough, I'm sick of this one. I can link it to this kind of connection and calling to the people, but not to mention the name, maybe if I quote it, I know, and there's no need to quote it here from the pay phone, so beware of the prophets who are calling on the people, and they never get such plebiscite support from the people. If someone should call on the people in this assembly in view of the support they have received here, then it might be us in HDZ, we never invite ourselves in our performances because we do not have the plebiscite support of the Croatian people. Therefore, when a person is invited to the people, there is something else in the game to read. You've done it in a very very very reasonable way, and it's that we go to the referendum and say to the people that he, that he will decide, will actually decide to give us that same tool to decide on again. So that's where you've been very good at detecting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91545	Thank you. Honorable representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, one of the main issues that you have opened in your debate, which is actually being passed in this debate, which is, can the people at the referendum decide on any topic or can it be limited? It's true that the government comes from the people, it says in the first article of our constitution, it's the premise of every democracy. The fact is also that Western democracies know that there are certain fundamental rights, fundamental issues that are not then decided, cannot be changed, cannot be touched. This, especially after World War II, became quite clear in the West. In that context, I think it should be emphasized here. We have even in the constitution not only about these topics but, for example, about them. we have an art. 135th, that we can't join in some Balkan associations, so we can't decide that either, but I think that here at the principle level we also have to explain the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91547	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91548	Thank you, fellow Stier. I don't know what to add to it except one that's been a dilemma since day one. Therefore, according to the current Croatian constitution, there are no topics which cannot be questioned in the referendum but can be read primarily from the Constitution by fundamental human rights, international contracts, certain financial documents of the state, etc., so that it is mostly prescribed. Here was the dilemma whether to prescribe it in the Constitution as you said topics which cannot be questioned in the referendum on the one hand and on the other hand whether this questioning should be before the great social energy is spent in collecting signatures that last for days and where society in Croatia is exhausting on something that may later be said by the Constitutional Court that it should not and cannot be conducted that debate. Therefore, between these two decisions whether it is prescribed to determine whether it is unconstitutional or whether it is still interpreted from the Constitution as possible, which cannot be done at this home and MPs to decide as other states have done, democratic... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91549	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91550	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned how much harder it would be, the tromium, and the execution of certain decisions in the Croatian Parliament instead of the headquarters. So here I would refer to only one decision to introduce a special security measure of mandatory testing of civil servants and subsistences in public services and units of local, regional self-government and companies. How many more of our citizens would positively come to their jobs if it had been adopted and brought to the Croatian Assembly, and not in this way because we know that more than 116,000 of our citizens have been detected in this particular test. So the time that would pass would certainly detect fewer cases so that our fellow citizens would come to their workplace, possibly also transfer the virus to one of their colleagues, colleagues or to the parties that are coming, how many more would be sick, and thus our fellow citizens to respirator, and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a waste of time... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91551	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91552	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Juričev Martinchev. You explained this, and I don't need to elaborate anything further than to say that the question is to what extent, to what level of measures would the Croatian Parliament decide 2/3 of the majority. You know that the government.../incomprehensible/... headquarters has authorized local headquarters, county headquarters to bring and measures in its area often more rigorously than those brought by the national headquarters and the government of the Republic of Croatia which we have defined in the assembly through the law. So then, I asked myself if we here 2/3 in the assembly will decide the distance between the maids' stands in Trešnjevačka or any other salary in Zagreb or at any other pizza, whether in your Vodice 2c they will go into isolation and have online classes or be live. We're going to decide two-thirds of it in the assembly, aren't we? It is decided everywhere by the execution, by the executive authority, by questioning and by a 2/3 measure, most decisions in the assembly are unacceptable. We'd get lost in bargaining, talking, and the pandemic would be without Expansion control. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91553	Thank you very much. Now will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91554	My people, if Branko Bačić and Boric do not defend this, once again, my people, we shall hear all things. The constitution says that the government comes from the people and the referendum means the whole constitution, can be changed by a referendum. And that's true. Comrade Stier, the whole Constitution must be changed by a referendum and we don't have a choir about it if the people collect signatures you don't have the right to speak as a great Democrats, not to misread with their great academic experience, the knowledge of diplomatically you know it. The Constitution will be decided by the people in this constitutional initiative. Everything else is a lie. As a person who doesn't have your experience legally, diplomatically that would be a clear statement, but I'm going to start saying one sentence here, so it'll be clear to the people. Three million 800 thousand inhabitants unfortunately below 4 million we have in the Republic of Croatia and so many of the same voters. That's another delusion, another deception. Listen carefully. Three million 800 thousand inhabitants and so many voters, which means we don't have any minors who don't have the right to vote. As for the collection of signatures, I would like to thank everyone who has collected signatures regardless, now I am talking about this referendum which has succeeded in the most difficult conditions of winter, mainly all activists, regardless of their political commitment, whether they were left or not, if their representatives have not defended them well, but let's say I am in my town and I know that there are a lot of people in the SDP who support that kind of or left we can, that they were quite active, thank them for this collection of signatures as well as those in HDZ. However, it is clearly up to HDZ and Milorad Pupovac to decide here. I would say here only briefly that the game with democracy is not good, yet freedom has come now after a long time, so don't make fun of the people, get over these signatures and let people vote. Even those who have signed may not agree with the questions, they have signed yet that the people decide whether these pointless measures that have led to chaos not only the question, I have been tested, I have not been vaccinated because I am over it, but you who have been vaccinated have guaranteed that you do not carry the disease. I have an example in the city administration, a person who followed all the measures, was vaccinated twice and okay, brought an infection into the management of the city of Sinja. So I ask you that you who have received that certificate, this is not an opinion on vaccination.../incomprehensible/... but that Covid certificate is given by the foundation of vaccination, so step away from people.../incomprehensible/... because you have legalized something that is illogical and this is not just about banning the covid certificate. This is about respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that the abolition of fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, we have now described these rights, described by the Constitution cannot without a two-thirds majority. He can't and we don't have that right. Comrade Deur, you are not the only one who has the right to do this, you have no right. Who gave you that for the right? Not the two-thirds majority. Are you the people? Do you have the right to end freedom by a two-thirds majority? Is that right someone who said before I don't know here the other day I'm proud, holy Vlaho, procession. Under much more difficult conditions of the processions on Hvar, under much more difficult conditions but miraculous Mrs Sinjska forbidden procession. 100,000 people in Sinj as a mercy the Lady will pass on the disease to the people. Never did Mrs. Sinjska's pardons spread the disease, ever! You know what their problem was? The problem was that I was the mayor myself. If someone was yours, believe me, or if it were SDP, it would be commies, dams to guard that lady Sinjska. But when it's you, it can be banned. Why? Because as Miro Bulj is the mayor, why would it be a procession?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91555	Comrade Bull, thank you very much. My colleague Deur has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here's where he's hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91556	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I believe that the Sibenik-Knin County does not mind the SDS as a coalition of the great Most High Most High Most High Most High, who I said you had some of the most important management ministers. Management, the M.O.P. could do whatever you wanted. You didn't do anything until the secretary rushed you out of the government because this is the way you're acting right now. My colleague Bulj, you have nothing to respect for me personally, but today in Sibenik-Knin County, you're collating with the SDS, and that doesn't bother you. And also under the circumstances of personal contact with Mr. Pupovac I am often what is clearly seen and it is pleasant on your part. [[Thank you very much.]] Is it? You don't mind?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91557	You know for a fact that it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. The Honorable representative Jeckov has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91558	That's right. Article 238 has been injured. Because here as long as we have the opportunity to hear the uninterrupted SDSS, and MOSTs, and HDZ colleagues, so I ask you to intervene in that sense if it is possible to exclude us from this discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91559	I'd be happy to excuse you, but I can't, because it's the essence of democracy to say what's meant in certain contexts. And this was in the frames, so colleagues of Jeckov you have to get a warning because it wasn't a pruning Rules of Procedure. Now we have a replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91560	Thank you. I see you've cut up a little colleague of Deura. It's not easy for him. Both he and Djakic must swallow things, but we may see them soon in Banja Luka. So I wouldn't be surprised if Djakic and Deur were part of the delegation. As for what you said, it is clear that the Croatian Constitution is not like the American Constitution. In America, the Constitution is sovereign, and in Croatia the sovereign people. And the people can decide all the questions. And these comparisons with the fact that I don't know the people can stray. Well, Hitler came to power by election, we're trying to ban the election of fellow Stier, maybe so we don't get any ideas that aren't good to win. So it has nothing to do with the connection. I believe in Croatian people, and I do not believe in Croatian political elites. I'm sure the people won't lead us in the wrong direction. The HDZ guys could.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91561	Dear Representative Bulj has, here's your answer. You're not going to answer my colleague Bull? Okay. I'm calling you twice, because you're not listening, that's your problem. Comrade Miletic, here you go. And you can't, I told you twice to talk. [[No, I can't answer that.]] You... I don't know what you thought. [[I don't understand.]] My colleague Miletic will now have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91562	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, don't get in my word while I ask my colleague Bulju, thank you. So, fellow Bull, I would still put my focus here on something else. So we have a situation where 410 000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia signed on winter terms to want a referendum. Therefore, 410 000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have made it clear by their name and last name that they want a referendum on stuporocracy and the abolition of covid certificates. So, I have to say, I'm consterned with certain statements on my right, and on the left where they suggested that I should probably call every man who signed and check. And here's a question for you, so how do you comment...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91563	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91564	Thank you very much. We see he's the chairman. I'd just like to say a little bit to my colleague Miletic here, and I haven't heard right before when he was a colleague of the bush, so I haven't responded to the line, so I'm going to zoom in on everything for a while. [[Intruder Reiner: Please be quiet that fellow Bull may say.]] So I know he's a little nervous about his colleague, Deur, because when he had to see Chetnik Vukic, Seselj's student, he had to be calm, when he came to Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, he shouldn't have been asked why he was making trouble with people and whether he was going to go to Croatia in Glin. So much for the coalitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91565	Buddy Bull, this isn't a subject. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91566	We'll get back to the subject just stop for time. Don't be afraid! Don't bother. This was submitted by fellow Djakic without any remorse, and in the referendum it is very important, the people can change the whole constitution, I am not surprised now by the ruling so much, the left hand wonders me more. The whole constitution can change the referendum and the people and the initiative, all of it and remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91567	Thank you very much, thank you very much. My colleague Deur has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91568	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague Bulj, thank you for your presentation and for your memory, but this one should take more care of some of your colleagues and you, too, where it can happen to you and not have a coalition with which you mention them. As for Vukic, I don't have any problem with that because I think it's missing, that it's something that's very important and anyone needs to be talked to, so it's because you would go to the coalition and with the black devil to come to power like you were until you were expelled...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91569	Thank you, colleague Deur, colleague Deur, that's a replica. Comrade Deur, I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91570	And Mr. Grmoy knows how Mr. Seselj once told us how much crime he committed in his Metkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91571	Comrade Deur, you get a warning, the first thing that, that's a replica, the second that you've exceeded your time, and I'm warning you it's your second replica, yes. This one. Second warning, excuse me. [[Clip incursion: Second warning]] Uh, now that it's one hour we're going to take a stand. We'll stop at a point, we'll take a stand on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent MPs' clubs, and the first one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Club, a respected representative and vice president of this high house Furio Radin, please. Thank you very much, we will now return to the debate on our point, but before that one technical note may not be that important, but that we know about the future. At least when I'm going to preside, and I hope that the other chairman does so, so I won't tolerate it from one club for one name to apply, and then five minutes later he pulls back and puts on another name, so 10 minutes later the first name comes back, and then it changes again, etc. So, very clearly at least when I chair, there won't be any more changes to the names of those who speak for the club in free speech because it's literally like in kindergarten. This one I ask you to respect only this one. Here's your buddy, Grmo. What's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91573	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91574	You can't react to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91575	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91576	You can't, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, it's me, I've said my position, and you can't paralyze him with me. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? It doesn't say anything. So, please don't do this, of course it says read a little better. This one we're going to have a debate. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91577	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, apparently, my colleague Bulj wasn't ready enough as a colleague of the Grmoys, so these changes were going well. I'm going back to the report on this request as stated by the Civil Initiatives. How well does that sound civil, and in fact it's as political as it was a sovereign as it used to be a living wall, etc. Some of them haven't passed for this yet. We need to figure out what's going on, so we have this debate. But I'm going to do a quick chronology, get back a little thought about how it all went, how it started, and how we got to this day. How did it start? The headquarters started using covid certificates in public institutions as early as 16.11. means health care. And of course who shows up? Mr. Bolt immediately feels the opportunity. Now, here's what we can do, and we're already on the 17th press conference going to the Covid Certificates referendum. What was that? We heard a man from their valley down from Neretva who said, if it were then, that he had decided not to introduce a certificate into public space then the Grmoy would have organized a referendum to be introduced. That's the policy. They felt there was a certain possibility. And of course they said we'll say next week but they're delaying. 20.11. that protest in Zagreb and, behold, some of them were there, said we were no part of the story. Here we are at that protest. 4.12. begins collecting signatures. Before that, 27.11. Their representative Miletic says we have 50,000 volunteers. And when you say you have 50,000 volunteers, it's a very easy task, you may not need 14 days. If you're going to get up to 400,000 each by 8 signatures and that story is more or less then solved. However, I say the collection of the duration and the public debate in the public space, in the assembly, in the media. Everyone's saying what they think about these questions that are being asked for a referendum. 16.12 says Grmoya we have 300,000 signatures. How do you know you have 300,000? Counting? You can't say something you didn't count. It takes another three days to raise a hundred grand. All right. 18.12. Last day of signing. 19.12. MOST says we've collected enough signatures. How do you know? Did you count it? You can't say something without counting it. It's been 19.12. the day after they've finished, they know. What are they doing next? He says we know, but we'll announce in four days. And on 23.12. they announce we've collected 400,000 signatures, I'm shaking with joy and excitement. The fact is, you have 400,000 signatures. How do you know? Did you count? You can't say you're 400, and you didn't count. Is that clear? I think so. And what happens then? They say, but no, we're not handing them over to the 27th, the 28th doesn't need Christmas Eve, we can do 24.1. What happens then? It turns out to be a story in the media space, in politics. What are you doing for a month? As we've seen, they've been counting the new 10,000 signatures, the new 10 because they've already counted 400. And that story goes. Who's manipulating? Ruler. We invite them to bring them back as soon as they have them. Of course there's no such thing. We can count anywhere you want. They say no, 24 we'll bring. And that story was going through my time to tell it to this day. What did we warn in that time? That what's being asked as a question of having certain problems, because if you go with messages that you're going to lift a covid certificate and that people are going to decide that, then you're behind it. You don't ask the question in a way that the people don't decide, but the two-thirds majority then decides in the Croatian Parliament. You're part of your let's say the moment or decision as a nation passed on to the MPs, which we already have. We have since election day, since 5.7.2020, when the people said that the majority is possible and that they will agree to the parties of the ruling coalition that will implement their programme, make decisions, etc. It was a kind of referendum. So what do they say now? We want another referendum for the people to once again pass on that possibility to us to make decisions on behalf of that same people that we say he decides. He doesn't, because you passed on his ability to make decisions to the parliamentary representative. How? Two-thirds majority. So one impossible moment where we now have in implementing a covid certificate that you're going to have to cancel. How? If tomorrow was a referendum and it went as without the ruling majority, how could I not know a HDZ party with 62 MPs, how? So all the time we see who's manipulating and the dates they've been acting on and what they've been doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91578	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91579	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Boric. From this chronological display of your situation and the situation around this whole story, it's very clear what the background of this whole initiative is. But I'm going to ask you as an experienced parliamentary representative whether it was an assessment of a colleague of Grumoja and MOST so that we could take over leadership when it comes to the opposition or was it at the recommendation of their chief epidemiologist, Mr. Bulj?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91580	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91581	Well, it's obvious from what you can see through this chronology who pulled certain strings here and Mr. Bully played a certain role in that whole story. He was supposed to be a representative of one as he says the free city that was eventually punished for it and now we'll see how the payment and punishment will go since it's the same one process that's not easy regardless of what it seems that you can pay by means of a liability, some legal person. It's still a process. And those who acted as executives know how problematic that is, but we will follow that moment. But apparently he was with his role, and it was dictated on the other side. And that's why those dramas were in the assembly if you noticed. At one point here on the last day of the meeting when there was a fight, when there was little time to collect signatures they staged a fight and found that they had done it very badly. Mrs. Rasudic and Mr. Grmoya didn't even agree to that. He said bad, and she said no, no good, some of us on the other side a little betrayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91582	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91583	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, here I am not the person who will offend anyone in any way, and just before we had the opportunity to listen to Mr. Grmoi, who insults me not knowing what he could compare it to by speaking the stomach of the tongue, it was inedible. And I think it would be correct to say the name and last name of that person so that someone would be imputed in such a way. We are witnessing that this law has shortcomings and that there is no time in the law when the implementation of the referendum will be defined and why the people who have initiated this citizens' initiative do not understand. They knew that the law was in force, and when they launched the first initiative, so what's the surprise now that they didn't hand over their signatures in a month, they wanted the initiative to be implemented within three days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91584	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91585	Thank you very much. That's why I went to this chronology of events, so we realize that we are already 23rd when Mr Miletic says I am shaking with joy and excitement we have 400,000 signatures. You know what's in your hand. You've been counting, and you can't say it irresponsiblely, we have, and maybe we don't, no. Except you can leave doubt then that what happened in a month that media space followed politicians and anyone could say whatever they wanted. They may be angry at it or not, but that's no reason for us to hear suspicions again of institutions today when the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system says you have your observers, you can look at every signature and determine its value. Of course they need drama always, conflict, drama, and an accusation that someone doesn't always do their job right. They're the only ones who did it. And what were they doing? I say for a month they obviously counted 10,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91586	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91587	Thank you very much, Vice President. A well-respected colleague here has shown a chronological sequence and indeed there has been a space in which one can doubt, in a certain way, the conduct and the initiatives themselves. However, I wouldn't talk about it even though they could have avoided it by offering citizens and the public to participate in that month's count together with them, and then there would be no open room for doubt. However, what I would point out is that we here today listen all the time to call upon the people. Although I must say I appreciate these signatures that have been collected, it is, these are the signatures of a part of the people, however not all of the Croatian people and all of our citizens, and it should be borne in mind that one good part of ours has been adhered to all the measures this time, they have been vaccinated, they have tried to be responsible in their behaviour in this situation and that we should consider whether and how we represent And that part of the people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91588	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91589	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, so I've been looking for an explanation in replicas twice today, but I can't hear it from MOST. I had to insist on it again. When we had two referendums that had passed, a referendum on EU accession, the people came out and said what they were thinking, the assembly was then only the implementing body of such a decision. That's when the people decided. As in the second referendum when the definition of marriage was to be introduced into the Constitution. And then the people decided the assembly was just spent. And now here's that manipulation. When you ask the question, people, tell us if you're in favour of a 2/3-seat assembly making certain decisions on measures to protect the pandemic, the people are signing. They may have signed what may not have been well-explained because you have re-authorised the Assembly to bring the assembly on your behalf. There is no direct implementation of any decision, let's say, on the abolition of the Covid measure or passport by direct implementation, let's say... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91590	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91591	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, you cited the chronology of events in your debate. The Committee, of course, has reached the outcome of the committee, which is that the decision is to entrust the government to also the members of the initiative to check the signatures. It is, of course, the right for signatories to get their satisfaction that it is legitimate, but do you think that every day 50 dead give us such rights? I'll just set an example from my county. Since the start of the pandemic, 400 people have died, so that's 400 grieving families with today 55 are on hospital treatment for as many as 7 of them on the respirator. Who will invoke the rights of the vaccinated, the rights of those who adhere to the start of the pandemic of all the measures imposed by not our headquarters but throughout the world across the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91592	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91593	Thank you very much, colleague, I think that our views as parties and individuals are very clear throughout this process and we have always done everything we can to protect every life, we call on orderly always daily to keep people inoculated and thus contribute to their ability to protect themselves from infection or to protect themselves from the worst possible scenario. It is this initiative in a very sensitive time when Covid's certificates were introduced that may have affected what we unfortunately have today. That people simply feel that certain things happen, and in some other countries they just don't want to do it, even though we see our numbers still high. We can't underestimate them. We can't tell what happened to us today that we have 48 unfortunately dead people again. And that we just don't need anything just to keep living normal. So what we're saying is clear, we listen to those in charge. It's headquarters, people in health care who send completely different messages than what we've been listening to for the past two months by one policy option.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91594	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91595	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have well shown this chronological depiction in fact of this whole referendum initiative and in fact a series of illogicalities and unprincipledness would say to the colleagues from MOST. For example, about the number of volunteers, there was talk of that large number of 50,000 to hear when the signatures were now counted that it fell to only 5, so somewhere along the way these 44,995 volunteers were lost. Since he's going to hand over the signatures, so either day, two after the press and the exact number of signatures, they knew 300 grand, 400 grand, and then it comes to that space of a month where we're all wondering what was going on and what was waiting for, right? And on the other hand, right from that group, so the Bridge comes.../incomprehensible/... casts doubts on the first day of the signing, someone's going to steal from us, start creating a certain psychosis in society, and now, while you tell them, you'll have the right to observe, etc., it's no good again. So, what's the point of this whole initiative, huh? What is the meaning of this initiative?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91596	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91597	Thank you very much. Here, one more time I'll be back, 23.12. The bridge knows it has enough signatures and speaks for itself, so 400 grand. We have and we don't give you the signatures for another month and you're leaving space. Why? Probably for some of his political reasons. Maybe they wanted that story to last a few months, to deal with what they're doing every day, maybe they misjudged, so now they have a problem, but what we certainly won't let them throw doubts at the institutions like they did today, and that whatever someone does, and this Assembly through their committee, as far as I hear it, is no longer good, now we have doubts whether the government is going to do it again, so if we're going to do it together with their observers, then maybe it won't be good anymore, no, and then we're already making up a referendum or not. It's their policy, it's this little political twist that lives on conflicts and that obviously has its own guru that pushes it, Mr. Grumoy, and that simply tries to dramatize here daily in the Parliament about anything, and so does this count that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91598	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91599	Says a colleague from HDZ, we should have known that the law doesn't have deadlines and what, we shouldn't have gone to the referendum because we knew you guys were going to cheat. That's it, is that a message? Second message, second message, says counterpart Boric, doubt. No doubt. That's the facts. This government, however, may be in a slightly different form, but Plenkovic's government, for which you raised your hands, stole 2 referendums. She stole two referendums. You have never shown these invalid signatures or signed lists with invalid signatures. Never, and he promised Minister Kuščević here to ask us that he would give. We came to the Department of Administration, he says, will bring you Secretary of State Josipa Rimac. What a duo. What a fantastic tandem. Roman-Kusčević. That's, that's better than this now Kalinic-Livay. Roman-Kusčević. You know what she brought us? She brought us our signatures that we signed for the referendum initiatives. So you stole two referendums, that's no longer a question. When you know who you're dealing with, it's no longer a doubt, you've done it twice already. Two times, not one, two times, and now you're going to do it three times. And fellow Boric, when you come out here to argue for a pay phone, we always listen to your impertinent lies, but what you did today has never been seen before. So, you claim, so you went out to elaborate on the referendum initiatives without reading the 3 legal articles of the 2nd referendum initiative which says that you, Mr. Boric, are neither HDZ nor you, Mrs. Jelkovac, neither you nor Mr. Ivanovic, nor Mr. Bošnjaković, nor Mr. Bulj, nor your colleagues from the opposition will ask you anything about the abolition of Covid's certificate. If this referendum passes, Covid is confirmed as the 2nd question of the legal initiative says that Covid is being abolished. And you're talking about us asking for signatures to make two-thirds of the majority decide whether they're going to be abolished. No, I don't. When this referendum passes, Covid's confirmation is lifted. And then if you think about it, and it won't come back to you because you got it on your nose and on your fingers, if you start denying people human rights and freedoms, you're going to need a two-thirds majority. It's our referendum initiatives, and it's sad that you HDZ people, I don't know who picked up for words, and who's come over their mouths, who's got the courage to do it, now I can't connect because so much of the incoherent I've heard that I don't know who's got more nonsense, that it's not the people, those 400 thousand people. You gave up that 410 grand. They're not a people and they don't need to be asked for anything. You're the only one who needs to be asked. Your click, the ones you share jobs with, the ones you please, the ones you're setting up now with these test jobs where 70 million kunas will turn, no use at all because parents won't. To test, to talk, to talk about a referendum because parents, [[/Intruder: Can we go back to the state referendum?]] I know the truth bothers you, Your Honor, because of the Bridge here in this place you went to change the Rules of Procedure of HS, but it won't work out for you and you won't stop me from telling the truth. [[You don't talk.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91600	I'll stop you from speaking off topic, please, back to topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91601	So this is not out of the question, testing children is not out of the question of this referendum. This, this is about managing this health crisis, Mr. Rainer. I guess you should know that as a doctor. So it's about the subject. What...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91602	So you're not going to argue with me, and you've gone off topic, so I'm telling you on the basis of an article. 232 warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91603	Outside the subject of child testing? We're talking about a referendum, [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] What was I saying? [[What you've been saying before.]] I responded to the accusations of my colleagues, Boric No, I know very well what I'm saying and it hurts you very much that you won't decide but that the people will [[I'm sorry you don't know what you're saying.]] to decide on Covid's certificates and this banditism here is enough. [[/Intruder: Like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91604	Because that's your third...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91605	Enough of your banditism and taking away human rights and freedom...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91606	... I would like to give you a third warning by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91607	...so how it falls to you and how it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91608	Your colleague, Mr. Grumoya, has been taken from you until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91609	My colleagues will say, and I think I've said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91610	The next one will be spoke by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Let's read the Rules of Procedure sometime, please. This one we have individually respected, the next individual debate of the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic, he is not here, so we will move on. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91611	You are the president, the chairman of the entire Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You took away a word from a representative who spoke individually and didn't speak outside the subject. And those who go off the topic were numerous from fellow Boric who just spoke absolutely out of the question and all the representatives from your club didn't warn anyone about the pay phone. So at least be fair to each other if you mind these 410,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91612	So, this way not only is it not a breach of the Rules of Procedure but you can't finally read to yourself once the Rules of Procedure, I know you don't care about any document that comes on the agenda, let alone the Rules of Procedure, read it again and you'll realize that it can't polarize with me. This is your third warning, and therefore I take away your word for the rest of the debate on this subject. And now he will speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic. Here you go, dear representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91613	The Honorable Chairman would ask you that if we don't have a problem with these obstacles that we've applied for to be erased from our statistics so we can replicate later to the other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91614	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91615	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91616	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91617	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues, I would like if it is possible to lower a bit of a sports dictionary by telling the ball on the floor and put focus at least here some of my thinking on the referendum. So we have a situation if I understand it well where the left or at least part of the left opposes the referendum and bothers them that the citizens of the Republic participate in democratic processes, part of me said, participate in democratic processes and decide for themselves, on their own life. And then we have a part of the ruling who's trying to implode to some dishonest acts during the signing process. So, since the organisational part I ran very clearly here speaking, dead cold, other minutes after anyone substantiated any evidence that the one thing about the referendum was dishonest I will greet you all in the party and you all and go some way. As Marin Miletić, I didn't find my cheek on the road, it's actually the only thing I have except two credits in the bank and two daughters and I have a cheek and it's an honor to me. It's an honor, everything. When I was talking, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues here, I said that since the excitement I first did something so organized at the level of all Croatia. Every night I was getting data from all the cities of the Republic of Croatia from people that I had set up organisationally, and I knew exactly where we were with the signatures, and I knew that we had passed 400,000, and I knew that every list of checks, every name and name to watch as much as we could possibly not have been a double signature, etc., and so, of course, we went out and said that we had 410,000 signatures for one and something less for another initiative, and we gave it up. What I would like in democratic Croatia, for which our boys and women died in the Homeland Defence War, is that no government or opposition, nor the ruling people, are afraid of the Croatian people. And what I would like is for a legal referendum to be put in such a way that we have as many as possible. To have them as much as possible, to legally arrange the story of the referendum in such a way that Croatian citizens can literally talk about everything that is important, of course, about everything that is important and everything that concerns them and their lives, so that people can come and say it like this. And if, of course, most of them, and that's democracy, right, sometimes it doesn't suit us, and if most people say something like that is arranged then let's listen to the will of the Croatian people. And the Croatian peoples should not be afraid of us politicians at least I don't think it's utopian, so that we could and should talk to people and move among them, listen to them and then in Parliament work for the good of the Croatian people, and not for any individual interests, I am now talking primarily about myself and my colleagues at the Most, and then of course also ruling because your greatest responsibility is because it is because you run the state. It's a legitimate, you have legitimacy in the elections, and we're here to try and put more emphasis on what we think is necessary in democratic processes. Do not give up 410,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're too small a people, we split up, we're always in some fights in some divisions, people have the right to their own opinion, and they've made it clear to 410,000 people, let's stop Covid's certificates and shut down the headquarters. 410,000 citizens of this country said that. Well, to someone, maybe it's a little small, I think it's a very important number. Let's not be afraid of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91618	We've got a few replicas. She is the first respected MP. [[Intruder: Be gentle.]] Maric. [[Intruder: Don't be too strong.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91619	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague has little to do with the contradictions we've heard from you and your colleague Grumoia today, and we haven't been able to replicate here, so here's a simple quote. You said here we're bothered by democratic processes. No, we don't mind the democratic processes quite on the contrary, we agree that the people are sovereign, we respect all these people who signed the referendum, but we handed over from the SDP Club the amendment just to make it more transparent and clear about the referendum that no tails around it are being drawn, but what I certainly have to do here as a doctor means that you deserve what we are constantly criticising both the headquarters and the government that is not doing well. Contradictively speaking by your colleague Grmoy, on the one hand you speak for yourself about the peas of headquarters and government and that therefore there has been dissatisfaction of the people, and then when we say so, then you spit us out and you raise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, etc. And not to mention that you didn't stand behind us. Doctors who are calling for measures and vaccinations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91620	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91621	Thank you. I'm not sure we got along well, but that's politics, too, we don't always have to understand each other, but it's important that we can hear each other, listen. So, I'm not sure that I've ever spit on you or anyone, maybe in those first days that I still have trauma, which is what I was telling some of you when I entered the Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, we have been communicating from the beginning that there are risk groups, older people plus 70 years of age, threatened persons, anxiety at least says the profession, and we've been communicating that these people have to talk to their own doctor and after their personal doctor advises them on what they should do to protect these people, they have to be free to decide whether they want to do something or not. And we believe that, I believe in it personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91622	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91623	Dear Representative, I think that everyone here in this assembly and the Croatian public are clear that the Social Democrats are not against the referendum and that we will fight all the forces to hold a referendum if everything is right. I have for you, actually I had for my colleague Grumo, but unfortunately he lost his right to speak, then I have for you since you're from the same club two questions. On the one hand, you're in favor of abolishing Covid's confirmation and I'm asking you, how are we going to travel to EU countries that are looking for Covid's confirmation, where are we going to go, we're going to be some ghetto? Furthermore, the second question, how do you intend to secure 2/3 of the majority in view of the diametric opposite attitudes that we have here in the assembly? You're on one side, HDZ on the other side, we have our own position that we've expressed multiple times both about the government and about the headquarters. The attitudes aren't even, how are we going to make those decisions? We bring them in and we bring them on one base? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91624	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91625	I don't think any of us should run away from our responsibilities, I think the assembly as the most legislative body as well as ultimately in other parliamentary democracies may be the one who makes some such important decisions. My fellow Pavic, I apologize to you, dear God, that the lead of the left should be someone like you who is open, discreet, who in the end never goes ad-hominem I would first therefore sign it. As far as I'm concerned, you're still asking me, uh, travel. Well, look at me like this, I think the Republic of Croatia is an independent state and that we should think about ourselves and our own backyard first, then others. And as for other states arranged for travel, so look, and it is clear to all of us that Covid's certificates in Croatia at least at this time have served on the mandatory vaccination agenda when we know that the people who had Covid's certificates have also transmitted the virus. So let people get tested and when you go over, I'm the same way when I go over the tests and you get into all the countries you want to go into. In every country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91626	Dear Representative Shashin. Not from the bench, please, not from the bench. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91627	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Miletic, so here's my colleague Pavic, I was kind of ahead of you, and I wanted to ask you the same thing when you were thinking about the initiative, whether or not you were thinking about calling a referendum, which is the fact that Croatia is part of the EU, and that in some way the island in the EU would remain a lonely island. How would people travel, how would they go? That's the first one. Secondly, have you thought about the variant of omicron which in some way has the possibility that this virus is insulating itself in some way and that in the meantime it shows that they are no longer needed, means that, and as a third of all, perhaps have you thought about all of this, or how much funding that referendum will cost and whether these funds might be more directed and better and better spent in some other way? Here, did you think about that when you went to that initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91628	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91629	Thank you for asking, and I'm glad that you're thinking about finances too, and I hope that these 70 million kunas that are really needlessly focused on testing children for which there is no objective reason it would be good to focus them on soap and toilet paper in schools. I worked for 14 years in high school, so I know what I'm talking about. As for Covid's confirmation now seven minutes ago published on the media not to advertise the media, Fauci, who is of the US's chief protagonist however we want whether the whole story is said to him that the epidemic seems to be over right now and that masks will no longer be needed in the United States, etc., etc., etc. Obviously this story of oxidation, as you said, leads the story to the end and God has given it to you tomorrow, ruling, I would now give you a mandate so that we can remove Covid's certificates because they don't make any sense at the end of what I told Minister Beros here when he was that and those surgical masks, not those with the filter and those other ones, but these surgical canvas masks that actually protect 10% from the crown, we don't have to wear them either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91630	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91631	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, my esteemed colleague. I believe that none of my colleagues and I are underestimating your efforts to make and collect signatures and I have no problems, and probably no one here to congratulate you on that. But why do you always doubt institutions? Do we have in this Croatian state, which you said people fought for, so I don't know you, but here most of the people on this side were in trenches and I have to respect the institutions of this country. So, if the conditions are met, the law will be implemented according to, or the referendum will be implemented under the applicable law, not under Mr. Grumoja's law, who suspects everything and everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91632	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91633	Well, I'm mine by my habitat incurable optimist, me to throw in a black hole I'd believe there would come the sun, so we look a little differently there. What is important to me, so in Croatia as my country, I will never doubt it, but because of this experience, let's say, it teaches caution, and perhaps some who are a little bit more burned and then scream and talk, but on the other hand, I do believe that it is legitimate to ask questions and to make sure everything is right. Our experiences are not the most brilliant with former Minister Kuščević and the experience of Croatian people, and that is why we are very concerned, here, if that is the right word, that these processes are done properly. Since there are a lot of people who are employed in the bodies of the authorities and state bodies, we just wanted to say, and I know how long we've been, while we've been counting what business it is, by ten hours a day, expecting that where there's a lot more people, that's going to be counted faster and that's it, just that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91634	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91635	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Miletic, I'll look back at three things. Number one, you, as Mostos, are making a continuous thesis that the government stole the referendum, and the truth is, you faked the signatures. That's number one. Under number 2, you've been selling fog to people recently, but thank God no one died of it, and recently you're offering people safety, uncertainty, instead of health, you're offering them disease and instead of life, ultimately, you're offering them death. Do you feel responsible for this, dear colleague Miletic and often talk about freedom, about the right choice, so please tell me what the prerequisite for freedom is? What is contitio son qua non to be free? Is that gonna be alive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91636	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91637	My colleague Majda Buric, I am indescribably sorry that while you were saying I couldn't do this and film the video. Forgive me, please, while you were speaking, your colleagues under the masks reacted like this, wondering what you were saying. Under each belt. We don't have anything to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91638	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91639	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. First of all, I'm sorry that you took part in the debate in a personal way, no one doubts your honesty or your honor. I was merely referring to the discussion of my colleagues, Boris, and I said that in this space from a month's time space until the signing was handed over, in fact, the question of why you had not given them up earlier, and that you could also ensure that they were independent observers, and then there would be no such doubts, there would be no room for that. What I'm saying is, no one is against the referendum. I personally believe that the referendum with the elections is the holiday of democracy. But I'm in the process, and I'm a legalist. At this point, the board has decided exactly what legal framework we have. We said, the law isn't good, it needs to be complemented, there's gaps, but we've complemented those gaps with what's practice. And that's why I don't think there's room for a simple ugly throw like this. what controls and mistrust in our institutions. [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91640	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91641	We, when we've collected these signatures for you, fellow, I'm looking into your eyes, I'm always telling you the truth, no matter what it'll probably cost me my head at the end. So the people that I've been counting with for 10 hours a day, so 23, I mean, December, I told people to the world of three kings, go rest. They were people of my trust the most, I didn't, you know, I didn't, you know, we couldn't give it to anyone now, you know how delicate it is just from all of this that you're saying and everything else. And there we had these meanings of 7, 8 days so rest and then these people came back to me and we ended up counting and we handed over all the signatures and that's what we did. So that's why we talked, more than 400 thousand people, and that's why I say, so five people, I don't think five citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have to know, let alone more than four hundred thousand, and therefore, I'd like that whole discourse to be different, but I guess I have to wait some other time in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91642	Thank you. Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91643	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will return to that conclusion that has been made here, which we need to discuss, which is that there were these two initiatives, let's decide together and there's enough of the stoning, which and for which a respectable number of signatures have been collected, if it's correct and it's certainly something that needs to be welcomed because the referendum is the form of a really direct voter's decision in the exercise of state authority or locality, depending on what it's called for. So, as my colleague said, it's a holiday of democracy and it should be respected as such. What she would have come back to in the previous period and which also bothered me personally, when they said that we had, that our government had stolen previous referendums even though at that time the Bridge had been invited to and the initiative to monitor the count and to be active participants in all of this. So they knew then that something was wrong with the total number of signatures and then they didn't want to take responsibility for what they did because if they were safe, then they would come and do it together with the representatives of the government. What is important in this conclusion, both on the first and second points, is that the Committee is precisely calling and proposing to enable the monitoring of the procedure, the verification of the number and credibility of voter signatures collected by at least two representatives of that citizens' initiative and that the report on the verification carried out be submitted to HS. So another possibility where they will be able to participate actively and forever to remove this particular suspicion that someone is stealing something, does not want, etc. And the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases and the Civil Protection System Act clearly states procedures and governments, and otherwise we as a Parliament have acted perfectly in accordance with applicable laws. Therefore, when the Minister of Health declared the threat of pandemic or epidemic at the HZZ proposal and published in the National Journal, the government then declared the epidemic on a proposal by the Minister and also published them. It is also known that the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, shall establish and appoint the Civil Protection Staff and it shall be known what powers it has and what powers it has. We also know how many respectable persons from the profession are involved in the Staff. Therefore, when we speak now that we have more than 14 329 dead and that the fissure of all 57%, then we must ask ourselves together exactly what is mentioned today, what is with all of us and responsible people who have followed exactly all the provisions of the law and the recommendations of the Staff, even though in some decisions we have not even agreed and we felt that in some decisions some, some branch may have been more severed, some less and perhaps, but in all of that, we can say that we were open as a society, that there was no curfew like in other EU countries, and a lot of that is still because we know it from the personal experiences of our relatives who live and in distant Australia, etc., in relation to what freedom we had, this is actually the responsibility of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91644	We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91645	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, dear colleagues. Here, I am pleased that this referendum initiative will be different from all because it includes volunteers of the initiative in counting the signatures. So if we are normal people, if we are Croats and Catholics as we like to call ourselves, then there should no longer be any doubt that there will be no number of signatures and that no accurate signature will be established and no referendum will be carried out. But I also don't understand where the aggression came from, especially the gentlemen who aren't here right now, that this referendum should be carried out within a week, if we know that they counted their signatures on their own for a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91646	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91647	Thank you very much. So, these suspicions in advance is something that is annoying and I don't think the Croatian people deserve it that way because everything we do must be in the interest of all of us and ultimately, I have mentioned it already today. If the government is both through public media and the Prime Minister and ministers, if they have shown and pointed out in thousands of ways everything that is happening in the world, which are likely to infect us, which are the probability of transmission, which are likely to die, then, I wonder how, in what way it was still possible to prove and indicate that what is the recommendation of the profession is necessary and respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91648	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91649	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, dear fellow MP. Well, we see that one of the initiatives of the referendum is that HS makes two-thirds decisions practically on every scale, about everything that changes on a daily basis, given that neither the pandemic nor we Croats, nor any other people or nations in the world have ever experienced, and for the first time we have met, we are changing even though no parliament in the EU is doing so. So we don't have these practices, on the other hand today we have an indication that the economy in the past year has grown 10.5% above all expectations, 2 in the EU, primarily thanks to the tourist season, so we have a government that knew how to balance the tourist season, the economy, the preservation of jobs, and that it chooses, it wants to be vaccinated, it won't be vaccinated, it wants to be tested, whether Covid will have a certificate, and now under some cover something wants to impose something that doesn't exist anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91650	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91651	Thank you very much. Yeah, you said that very well because headquarters is an operating body, which is, it has to react promptly, it's made decisions within a few hours. What Parliament has not said, what you yourself have said in Europe, and neither do I think in the world, has therefore made these day-to-day decisions. And that's what should be highly respected. Likewise, when we compare what we have achieved with balanced measures to preserve the economy, preserve jobs, to have the end of the tourist season, this precisely resulted in this economic growth. And all of this is not enough to prove that it was really in the best interests of everyone. That's why we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91652	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91653	Thank you. Comrade Peric, I will discuss the referendums as such I will not get much into the metrics of this occasion. You mentioned the expression of the holiday of democracy. I'll come back to that later. I remember when, as Minister of Administration, I had to hold a referendum in 2013 on taxes in the city of Zadar if you remember to side with HDZ against your party colleagues. So, you can't call a referendum on everything and it's not exactly a referendum on democracy. The holiday of democracy is the election. And the decisions made for the citizens are made on the basis of their decision in the elections. The referendum cannot be a substitute for elections or a replacement for parliamentary democracy, nor a representative democracy it can be their corrective or complementary. So that the referendum goes in that sense is not a holiday or a holiday of democracy but just his memorial by watching our Law on Holidays and Memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91654	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91655	Yes, thank you very much, I remember this referendum when it was this one when it was wanted to ask that citizens actually decide on whether or not we will have a cut in the city of Zadar and that is something that you as a minister knew as well as what limits they were actually reaching what a referendum, what they can make and how a referendum question can be formulated at all. So, you've said all this well, but I don't think any of us are afraid when the referendum is legal, that it's being carried out and that it's really an expression of the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91656	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91657	Thank you, Vice President. We in Croatia today have over 11,000 cases of infection or people positive for the coronary virus despite the prescribed measures and decisions of the national headquarters. And here is today in the assembly of some colleagues from the opposition we have heard only criticism and hurtful words of the prescribed decisions and measures and Covid certificates. What do you think the condition of the infection would be if no measures and decisions were prescribed to prevent the spread of the infection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91658	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91659	It is difficult for me, not an expert, nor can I predict this, but according to this majority of people who have been vaccinated when we look at a single dose being vaccinated over 2 million and 200, with 2 doses almost 2 and 200 then it is very important to note and it is an important factor which is why you reach or cover the pandemics are not even worse in Croatia and worse because we do not forget the situation that was in Italy, in Spain when there was no more, there was no room in hospitals or in any capacity, so we did not experience such a, such a terrible, terrible, despite the large number, the number of deceased. And that's actually the most tragic thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91660	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91661	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the Civil Protection Act and the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases. We have mentioned Article 17 several times here. The Constitution or the adoption of certain measures 2/3 mostly in the assembly. I really do, and I think that we can agree that it would slow down and make it harder to function, it would block the whole society, and you said that the headquarters was an operating body, and it had to be reacted quickly sometimes. So, within a few hours. What I think was good, and that was the conclusion that we made about reporting to the Assembly on the measures where we ordered the Assembly to report twice a year, to God's headquarters to report to the Assembly on all measures taken so that we could discuss them right here in the assembly. A removal of headquarters and decision-making under Article 17. The Constitution no Article 16 would really lead to a major blocking and difficult functioning of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91662	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91663	You're absolutely right, so what I said is really like an operating body that was supposed to be made on a weekly basis, and sometimes more often decisions. I think that through these forms, this form of report three months each of us could give its suggestions and its vision and ultimately certain that all the authorities from the minister to the Prime Minister were able to read and hear from it everything that was, what anyone had to say and if it was necessary to correct. I believe they were embezzling in their own decisions. So I think this was the best possible way and I'm saying it, but what I've already said since the hundreds of people who died 80 of them were unvaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91664	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91665	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Of course, in this debate, as is often the case in Parliament, half the truth is spoken, not to say the hard word because I do not want to or with my statements and arguments to be mistaken. One of these mantras, which now often appears in a statement, is that in all EU countries a copy of the certificate is abolished, of course not true, is removed selectively, gradually and adapts to the epidemiological situations as they have been introduced. For example, for going to cafes, for shopping malls, a curfew is abolished in those countries where it was introduced. We've really had the mildest measures. Even these measures were so unrespectable that those who made a public appeal not to abide by them now accept no responsibility for the consequences that we have brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91666	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91667	Well, it's the easiest thing to criticise, but not actually to make real and constructive suggestions. But what I can say from the experience of, say, my relatives in Germany where they had a curfew, where they couldn't, but only one member of the family went shopping. What I experienced two months ago in the Republic of Macedonia where I couldn't enter either the store or the restaurant without premonition of the covid certificate. So, one Macedonia that is not an EU member had much more rigorous measures than we had. And then when we put it in the context of what we've been through and how I think many of us have been envious of how relatively free we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91668	Thank you very much. He will now speak to the respected representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91669	Thank you, Chairman. If it was me... I might not even apply to this individual, but I will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We say in the Imotski “whom the snake bites and the lizard fears. ” For this reason, we can observe the January 24th date. So, the deadline within which every signature, every OIB checked and scanned. Everyone in our heads and we're sure no one will be able to tell us that we've given up a signature that's invalid, that we've faked something, etc. etc. In the head of everyone! And if anyone suspects anything, there are certain reasons they'd be free to take them out. It is clear to me, too, that any government at first was sweet to fight not only in Croatia, but anywhere, to fight the covid, and that certain things could not be predicted in which direction things would develop, how things would happen, which would eventually happen just as easily as we understand whether each government eventually praised itself in the very beginnings of a successful fight with covid. But then what happens most often in life is when you think you're flying that high ground thing and you don't know what's moving you, and you need to manage. That's what happened to us. And if it's the Staff that we're all looking into the eyes, we know it's one political body and okay. The government took responsibility, I have no problem with that. Did he make certain decisions? It is. Was he trying? It is. Did he make a mistake in that methodology? It is. Is the Staff and then you who represent most often feel like a young bride to whom she is a mother-in-law, who in this case is a "people" obvious lesson and then happens. Maybe that's what I'd be like. That we should be aware of the fact that the success of these two referendum initiatives has not been contributed to their success by anyone other than the Staff, measures and different criteria. So we all know that if there's a certain place where we don't have to keep the mask that we're going to take it off, that no one with a goose is wearing it. Right? It is. And then are we going to be here if we represent the thesis of certain measures to push the story we should wear will. Are we hypocrites? Well, we are, obviously it's in our genetic code to all of us in Croatia, and that's what's the problem, and that's why there's been enough signatures. I personally dream of Croatia, personally in which, regardless of whether I agree with a specific referendum issue and I will give the initiative my signature to hold a referendum as such. And in that referendum, it is my right to vote against a particular question. I dream of such a Croatia where we will not have this kind of Croatia I would like to say a radical law, in which Croatia, in which we will have a referendum law that will have much lighter and much softer frameworks for the implementation of the referendum, but no referendum will be necessary to implement the referendum. I think that's what's crucial in this story. What else has contributed here? In particular, Mr. Peja helped us greatly with his performance in the assembly, and that's what's true when he declared us to be paralysing to death. I'm not the kind of person who's about to go into.../incomprehensible/... the reasons why someone's been vaccinated, harmful, bonity, whatever. We all know that there are examples of different and we can argue about it, if the waist has no consensus on this, then we can lead not even I know what kind of bike in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91670	Thank you very much. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91671	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Can we agree on the following issues? First, there were no numerous peas of headquarters, governments about double standards, non-consistent decisions, etc. What we have always warned in principle would be no need for a referendum. So that's what we've warned you about, your colleague Grumoja raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then he said it again, so that's where we're supposed to agree. Second, if from the number of unvaccinated ones tested so far, there were 113, 116,000 of those who were asymptomatic positive, then such testing made sense regardless of the name Covid certificate or not. I speak here primarily from the doctor's side. We asked in the end line to go on even more tests a year ago and the health system etc., ruling it unfortunately refused. And the next thing you know, if countries that have significantly more split have far fewer deaths than the Republic of Croatia then vaccination makes sense and protects against severe illness and hospitalisation and death, and you're not as clear as the club pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91672	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91673	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think we'd say you and the wrong person would argue over the vaccine. The measurement of these referendum initiatives was not vaccination. Despite trying to create a kind of verbal war between the vaccinated and unvaccinated, which I understand is that the PR might be the most convenient fight, so everything will be fine, thank God it didn't happen. If I were to go answer you to, I believe that this number is correct that 113,000 seem to me people are actually marked as infected, I could lead you to a whole series of people who have also been vaccinated and got Covid with severe respiratory problems the truth that we can talk about that they haven't been vaccinated maybe they would have died etc., etc., but I'm not talking about it at all, myself. I didn't vaccinate on my doctor's suggestion, the doctor's general practice since I have an allergy. Nutmeg, and he suggested that I don't vaccinate for that reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91674	Thank you very much. Now will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91675	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people stands in the first article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the articles in our Constitution and in many laws are often just a dead letter on paper. Perhaps the best example is the existing Law on Referendum where the referendum or the Institute of Referendum is indeed a dead letter on paper. On the one hand, we only have one thing clear in this law, which is that it is necessary to collect 10% of the voter list and that these signatures must be collected within 15 days. Everything else is unclear. In what time do these signatures need to be submitted, who and how will count these signatures, where the same signatures will be counted, and what eventually with these signatures destroying them, should they be destroyed or kept in a safe place? None of this is defined under the existing law. Even what's defined is God's regret. In fact, 10% of the voters' list is said to be said, the moment when a referendum was called or a referendum was launched, or the signing of the day required 368,000 and some fine voters, which means that in Croatia there are 3 million and 680 and some thousands of voters. And then wonders come out a census that says that 3.8 million people live in Croatia. And when we know that 30 to 35,000 children are born annually on average, we multiply that times 18 years, and then we get almost 600,000 minors, so when we subtract it from 3.8 million people in our beautiful population, we get to the number of 3.2 to 3.3 million people with voting rights or voters, which means that a maximum of 320 to 330,000 signatures are needed for the referendum initiative. But that's not enough either. And when the signatures are collected then, throughout history, it has proved that often these signatures are not recognised, that they are considered forgeries, often these referendum initiatives have been declared unconstitutional. On the one hand, by the Constitutional Court itself, which is all but an independent body, and on the other hand by the government, regardless of whether it is left or right, we know that certain referendum initiatives have been stolen. And these ministers were later and replaced because of some other affairs and today certain investigations are being carried out and this just shows that the very first article of the Republic of Croatia is not being respected in this country. The power comes from the people, but apparently it doesn't belong to the people. Because here where people can directly decide, express their will, do not give them the right and try in all possible ways to play that will of the people. You have no reason to fear your own people. So this people created this country in the Homeland War. This people will never raise their hands to the power they chose, no matter what power they were. No matter how young democracy we are, this people know how democratic society works and then respect that people who have given you confidence, call a referendum, don't wait for it, so let the people decide. If the people say, "Let them remain, let them remain." If the people say, "Let's remove them, let's remove them, nothing less, nothing more." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91676	The Honorable Representative Sacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91677	Here's a well-respected colleague of yours, you've correctly communicated it to build a population list of three million and 800, and it's logical and it's easy to verify, but it's supposed to be in line with the voters' list that we're somewhere on 320,000, but for the referendum we need to take down another 200,000 circus of our people who have the right to vote but are outside Croatia as some say, some say diaspora, some say I don't know how evicted Croatia is. Therefore, now we must insist absolutely with you agree these are such assumptions now if they are not respected, if this is not respected by our National Election Commission, our Constitutional Court is, in fact, making this Parliament a direct offense to the Croatian people, because what is now evident cannot be, we cannot pretend there is a contemplative conjecture quite clear We can't pretend something doesn't exist when it exists. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The referendum must be on... Do you agree with that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91678	It's a shame this country doesn't have an accurate register of voters in the 21st century. It's really sad and embarrassing, and this people don't ask for much, he's just looking for a little. Respect what you have prescribed by law. So this people signed this. It was raining, snowing, several thousand locations where people signed for this referendum initiative, all the legal provisions were respected. So give him what little belongs to him; do not seek this people much. Allow this referendum to make the people decide whether they support it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91679	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91680	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavliček, you yourself were the head of the civil service of the city of Vukovar during the pandemic of the beginning of Civil Protection and I believe you know how important, necessary and important it was to make timely and urgent and rapid decisions. Do you personally think that if we move it to a two-thirds majority in the Assembly that it will speed it up, improve decision-making or slow it down? Did we have many examples of a two-thirds majority in the Parliament when we all agreed together or that on a daily basis we were all in agreement here together. I don't think so. On the other hand, unfortunately, you and I both had a mutual friend who got covid 19, ended up at Vukovar Memorial hospital, and said he was sorry that he didn't listen to us and that he didn't vaccinate. Unfortunately, he passed away later, and here he is no longer with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91681	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91682	Dear Comrade Mazhar, I will agree with you in the first part that when this pandemic appeared, it was unknown to everyone and of course that at that moment the Staff had to and made decisions as it had been made and where indeed all of them, regardless of what political option they belonged, absolutely supported the work of this Staff from the first lockdown and beyond. I was head of the Civil Protection Staff, but later it turned out that the Staff had primarily turned into the ruling party's political body, often made political decisions rather than epidemiologically justified decisions. Today, here are almost two years since the pandemic appeared we know well how it behaves. And I think it's quite enough for those who have legitimacy and these are parliamentary representatives to confirm the Staff's decision. Here's a colleague from MOST looking for a two-thirds majority. We've launched an initiative to confirm the overhalf majority. I believe that you would have nothing to do with it, since you have a majority but let's open the debate in the Croatian Parliament and see if these measures are truly justified or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91683	And now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91684	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What people in Parliament would say is nothing new. While there was that morning debate there was something else and was interested, as soon as the cameras went out a little bit, the interest of the counsel for anything was gone. We are here today discussing a very simple matter, which is also the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system very clearly explained this morning. The procedure is very simple, the board held its session, made two conclusions. We are discussing these two conclusions today, we are sending it to the government, the government is doing its part of the job, it is returning it to the Parliament again, and no one is stealing it from anyone. The word here is that HDZ is going to steal someone's referendum, that HDZ doesn't want the referendum to be conducted. I didn't hear it from any debate, not a single respected HDZ representative talking about it. But that sounds good. That sounds populist, it echoes in the media, and then there's some sort of Lovro Kuscevic, so I don't know who else. And there's already something that might not happen, but for some other reason. Who makes it impossible for the people in this House of Commons to show their civic will to go to a referendum like the one who defended the signings, to collect that number of signatures. Well done and I said praiseworthy initiative, it's a political struggle. It takes strength and will to collect 400,000 signatures. It is something that brings this initiative or foreigners, something in their political struggle and what they want to articulate in public, but let's not, let's not fool the Croatian public. Small people know little about this, so I, as a parliamentary representative, learned some things right here as a man who sits in the Croatian Assembly listening to what they say, say others. But today we've focused the whole debate on this particular experiment that we're trying to steal something from someone here. So was the committee's proposal to make 2 members from each initiative an integral part of a team that would check each, each signature. Well, isn't that transparent enough and clear enough that nobody here really wants to take anything or kidnap anything, but we need to use the political arena and attack the HDZ for what no one here has said in any word. We heard from Mr. Bačić's exposure what the HDZ really wants. He made it clear and loud from this pay phone that we are also in favour of the fact that in some future initiatives, the DIP will be the one to check the signatures. Branko Bacic also said HDZ is for it not to be a census of 10%, but let's not open it now. You know when the initiative was created, we did not yet have a final population collection, or report as many of us as there are in Croatia. So here, the HDZ I would say today appeared transparently, clearly and stately and did not say a single word that it forbids anyone. But I would have re-absorbed what I was saying a week ago when we discussed here a report of the headquarters's work in three months. We confuse the public, we purposely do it, we purposely do it. We have the smallest cleavage in the EU, instead of working to divide people, so Covid can confirm themselves afterwards, because many European countries are discussing precisely this way because of the high, high percentage of the cleavage to slowly abolish Covid's certificates. But to cancel Covid's confirmation, and to have a 56% cleavage, I think it would be crazy and crazy. So let's not send false messages, let's not let politics prevail over what is the habitat of the Croatian people. And that's the Croatian Parliament, that's the Croatian Parliament, that sits in which people know exactly what they're talking about, the way they talk and have all the instruments to tell the truth, not to tell a single lie. So I think the time has come to clear this up. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91685	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91686	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Ivanovic, let's take a hypothetical look at it if we can. It's kind of human beings. If decisions of this type were made by 2/3 of the majority and Covid's confirmations were made by 2/3 of the majority, do you think that the split in Croatia would be greater?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91687	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91688	No, thank you very much, not here and we have a problem, we've changed thesis. That's what Mrs. Dark Taritash was saying last week. It's not a good job. There are certainly 100 or more parliamentary representatives sitting here who hold that vaccination is the greatest amount of medicine and protection of human health over the past 100 years. And that is no problem at all, we could have made that decision with 100 or more votes here in the Croatian Parliament, and we would certainly have contributed, but insist that all the decisions of the headquarters are made by the Assembly 2/3 of the majority, I think it is neither real nor in accordance with the practices that remain in the European countries, and we are also part of this polite Europe. So it's up to us, we can support all decisions that are good with 100 and more votes and qualify it as 2/3 of the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91689	Dear representative Murganic. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91691	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, here I am going to ask you this directly do you think that you, me and here let us say from this side of the assembly people? Are we representatives of the people, of the people, of the people? Do we also have the rights to democratic rights and human freedoms? Are we the fewer representatives of our people together with those 67% of the adult population who are being vaccinated by a very large majority of these prescribed measures? Do we also have the right to demand that we be allowed to live a normal life, normal work? Are we less valuable, less folk, less aware because we think we will and want to travel without having to be quarantined when we enter a foreign country? Are we less folk if we want tourists to come to us without having to be on vacation? A quarantined vacation? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Are we the people?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91692	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91693	Thank you very much, we really are the people. Today we've heard a maximum that's repeated here at least 10 times today, and that's that power comes from the people. Clearly, the Constitution says in its article what it is, but it always comes to, there are these two nations. And it does not exist in Croatia, let it exist here in the Croatian Parliament. When you want to impute something to HDZ, then you mention that we are against that people. No, absolutely wrong and I would say that never more transparent, never more clearly carried out a procedure on how to implement the referendum and the way it will be implemented. And the new Law on Referendum should define these some of the things that we ourselves have found are not good and go against that people... [[Intruder: Speakers speak at the same time, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91694	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91695	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ivanovic, I would like to ask you if you are sharing with me perhaps my impression that is now next. I have a feeling that indeed the Bridge gentlemen or the initiators of this referendum now that they have seen that this referendum absolutely does not make any sense, absolutely no sense at all, and it is not easy for them, and now at all cost they want this referendum to be resolved as soon as possible, that the votes are counted as soon as possible, that we are going to move quickly into this referendum because they realized that perhaps in the meantime, the omicron will do its part, perhaps indeed in the EU in most of the countries gradually confirm, and thus also with us and that this referendum will absolutely lose any sense. I agree that they have put a certain great deal of effort into collecting these signatures and spending certain resources, but why now force the state to spend tens of millions of kunas to hold a referendum? [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91696	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91697	I understand what you wanted to ask. Here we have two referendum issues, or two initiatives that want to be implemented. It's not just Covid confirming the metrics of this whole referendum story, it's a much wider context. I'd say so, and that's what many MPs have noticed. The bridge felt the political moment that calling a referendum or calling people to sign these two referendum initiatives is a fertile ground for something that will only happen in some time ahead of us, or that the Bridge is defined as the political party or the first party of the opposition and thus try to do what is most important in politics, take a few political points at that, so that tomorrow would be different when elections occur. But no matter what, it's a clear message that Most wanted to send these referendum initiatives, which is that All bad in Croatia is right [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] made HDZ and... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91698	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91699	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic. You have repeated the procedure that has been carried out and that the committee has decided to entrust the Government with a signature check, of course with the members of the initiative. Personally with me, but I believe my colleagues also respect all the rights of all those who signed the initiative, but I also respect the different attitudes, of course and opinions, but let us all have different attitudes and different opinions. With a high mortality rate, a small number of people vaccinated, I'm thinking that we're confusing the public with various statements. Our measures were liberal, the Government and the Staff, of course, had to balance and preserve the health of our citizens, preserve the health system and jobs. Sometimes it wasn't easy or easy, but what a situation it would have been if a body hadn't run this crisis, if it'd waited for a two-thirds parliament to make a decision, here you were once alone You've been running... [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91700	...representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91701	Thank you very much. Here, a year and a political day I'm a parliamentary representative here and I haven't yet testified that on a working day in HS we were 2/3. It may also appear 2/3 at the vote, but the headquarters would have to practically make and take that initiative every day some decisions, I'm really afraid that it would look like it would be possible to do so, so I don't think it's good, and I'm going to use the time again, here, which I have left, to call people to be vaccinated, to rehabilitate us significantly in these measures, to abolish Covid's certificate, to talk a lot about having to be tested in schools, it's not true, no one has made a decision on mandatory testing, those who want to be tested, will be able to do it, so they won't have to pay anything, and will make a significant contribution, first of all to themselves, to not spending their vain time in self isolation. if they don't have to, if they don't have to. [[Thank you. The Honorable Representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91702	... Donkey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91703	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's a colleague of Ivanovic's. Well, we also heard from fellow Miletic that we, as ruling, bear the greatest responsibility and are basically responsible for everything. So we gave over $12.5 billion to preserve 800 thousand jobs, over 100,000 employers. The opposition said there would be 400,000 unemployed, so today we learned that we have the second largest economic growth in the EU, 10.5%. She said the opposition that we would not recover for years, so we have a salary increase, an increase in pensions, an increase in employment, a reduction in unemployment. The opposition, on the other hand, said black, black, black and now that responsible together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the profession we are fighting this global pandemic, we need to do, no, the profession doesn't know, we opposition politicians know better than the waist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91704	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91705	Thank you very much. The responsibility is, I'd say, the headstone, the cornerstone of each individual, and then so on and so on, there's no better society without responsibility. I would say that HDZ, the HDZ government as responsible government has responded to all the challenges, and there have been, let's be honest, I think that no government in the history of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps other than the one during the Homeland War, has dealt with so many bad things that happen, not because Croatia is bad, because the Croatian Government is bad than what hit us with something that no one has an answer to. There is no German response, there is no Austria, there is no Canada, so neither is Croatia, but we have succeeded in what you have highlighted with all the black forecasts and hunches that have called out here in HS we have managed to keep our heads above the water today and slowly swim in that restless sea. So, I think we're done. Absolutely everything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91706	Your Honor... Someone's done the A.R.'s injury. I don't know who. Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91707	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238, I was reluctant to do this because my colleague Mazhar was totally out of the question and debate and you didn't take his word away from our Nikola Grumoia. I'd just like to add that we welcome everything that's been done. However, it was the same in the 9th month. If we need to find a video clip alerted to inflation, Minister Coric has no names to warn him, today the same minister has joined his ears, is nowhere to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91708	Like this. My colleague, it's true that my colleague Mazhar has gone beyond the subject, and I agree with that, and I'm giving him a warning, and I'm not, of course, not taking his word for it because it's his first warning. And I draw your attention that I took away my colleagues' word because that was his third warning, wasn't it? It's just like the Rules of Procedure. It was strictly in the Rules of Procedure, wasn't it? This, therefore, here he is, the esteemed representative of Sacic will now have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91709	Here, fellow Members, you spoke of the fact that there are many heads above the water, I can tell you as a participant of many referendum initiatives, political activists, when I was that many of us were submerged, and not you personally, or then governments, because the law, and unfortunately it is still so in force, is done and is most restrictive in relation to all possible obstacles to the organisational committee in the way. Among other things, to collect these signatures, so it's a miracle, and really everybody deserves the congratulations they collect within that short period of time, but I'm asking you a question. Isn't it actually incomprehensible to you that now that we have a census, that there is still no emergency procedure for a list of voters and that there is still a provision inside that people who are in diaspora and emigrants enter the quota that the organisational committee needs to fill, and they can't, there are 200 thousand, can't participate in the signatures. How do you plan to solve that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91710	Dear Representative Ivanovic. It's a little off topic again, but come on. No, I don't. We can accept it, I'm just suggesting that we all stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91711	Thank you very much. Today those who were here in the assembly and followed this parliamentary debate could also hear from the president of our club that he thinks, and probably of course we too who are part of the same club that certain things have to be fixed when it comes to the new referendum law and there is no dispute or dilemma at all, I am sure that this will happen in the second reading and when the law is passed. And as far as this is concerned, I think that we needed the census, that was the background, that was the platform from which it was going to go, to correct these illogicalities that you were talking about, and I absolutely have nothing against it, and we have to arrange the voters' lists to know how many of us there are and how much we need to win, and that means a lot to HDZ, of course because we want to win in 2024, so I think it's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91712	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91713	... Excuse me. You were headed when the pandemic Covid-19 headed the meaning of the County Centre for Civil Protection of Osijek-Baranja County began. [[I heard.]] Did you, as a man and as a responsible person or head of the regional self-government unit, feel responsible for the health of the citizens of Osijek-Baranja County and who felt it felt like putting your signature on some important instruments for maintenance and functioning in this challenging time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91714	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91715	Thank you very much. Whether it is units of local and regional (area) self-government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that principle must remain the same. Decisions must be made quickly, decisions must be made of course, professionally. I was only the head of the Civil Protection Staff as deputy mayor, but all decisions regarding the pandemic, the epidemic, then we didn't know where it was going to go were made by people who were waist. So the head of the Public Health Institute of Osijek-Baranja County, director of KBC, head of the county general hospital, were the people who told me as Head of Staff what should be done to defend themselves from it. That's how it works here. This is where we often want to impute that this Command is politicized. He'd just be politicized if we brought him in here to the Parliament and we'd be running polemics here for 2, 3 days, whether we'd accept something or not. Therefore, Let the people work. [[Intruder: Dear representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91716	... Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91717	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Ivanovic, you said very well. We're actually very confused with clarity. The politicalism of some of our colleagues leads us to the country's worst secession in Europe at a time when we can say that in Croatia we have just over 56% of the divided total population or slightly more than 67% of the adult population, we have competitive tourist countries, Portugal has more than 90%, Spain 85%, Italy 81%, and so on and, of course, the weaker the fissure, the greater the number of patients and the more severe deaths, and all this reflects on our economy as well. I wonder if those colleagues who are now calling for non-vaccination, insubordination and counter-measures will later be responsible for the poor economic picture and situation in us, for example. tourism activities, their focusing activities and the economy as a whole?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91718	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91719	Here, I'll say one thing I said last Friday at the polygraph. I wasn't on a polygraph. I was in a polygraph. It was a big difference. One man who was quite brave here, came out for a pay phone and said, "I might even pay with my head what I'm about to say now invited people to be vaccinated." As a responsible citizen of the Republic of Croatia, as a responsible representative, and that is exactly what happened to him. That he was excommunicated from a party, from a club that he formed. So we've made the system so far that individuals have to think carefully about what they're going to say from the pay phone, which I don't think is bad at all, but when it comes to inviting people to be vaccinated, to lose everything that you've gained with your political engagement, I think it best outlines why Croatia has a fissure of only 56% or 60% when it comes to over 60 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91720	The next one will speak with a respected representative, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91721	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today I'm talking about, clearly, the referendum initiatives and the collected signatures. Most of all, the topic is about how many signatures are, how and how they are collected, who will count them, who will check them, and of course it is mostly the announced topic which, in its opening presentation, was represented by the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution. Of course, this is an opportunity, like all of us, to talk in general about the whole situation that is related to this pandemic problem and everything that it leaves as a problem and as a consequence of society, so I will talk a few words about it, although most likely as we all will not, I will not say anything that has not already been said because of this pandemic that has been there for 2 years and a lot of things has been said about this speaker and when we have passed regulations and when we have every 3 months reports on the effectiveness of the measures, however, I might just want to stress that we have to take care and when these signatures are processed that unfortunately the problems remain with us. The pandemic may not be present in this scope, but the consequences it has caused for the overall situation in society and for our health will be very long present and that is why it is not clear to me at all why all the time in the public space are heard and the comments in which the death in the epidemic and the disease is denied, the effectiveness of vaccination is denied, the importance of testing is denied, the resistance continues to be called upon, mass gatherings in which the measures are not respected. I must certainly point out when for some poor results and for the number of patients, and even mortality is called by the Government, that someone who thinks, who acted in public space, precisely by denying the disease, by denying measures, by denying vaccination, is in a way responsible, if he can't admit it publicly, let himself think about it. How responsible are we who are not protected by the actions of our youth or our oldest citizens? It's the ones who are the loudest in public today. It is said that two-thirds of the measures would be more effective. It would not be those who called and are now initiators of these referendum initiatives that would still be very active because, unfortunately, they have seen their chance for a political promotion. As a politician, and we are all here for politics and policy reasons, of course that this struggle is politically and truly necessary and alive, however, we all need to have a measure of what to do and who we use. I can't forget the debate we've been having so much, but with the right and I believe, honestly everyone felt for our older fellow citizens who were literally imprisoned in institutions, not to say incarcerated, and their families were individually speaking to us as agents that they couldn't reach them, that they had no contact with them, and that this was one terrible psychological emotional loss for these families, especially for the elderly of those citizens, but I must tell you, I know that these same, these children, these same families, they persuade their older.../incomprehensible/... their parents not to split themselves. Well, he said one day, dr. Ivić, what kind of parents would we be, think of this older generation, after all, which I belong to, if we hadn't vaccinated our children from diseases such as conceptions, for the male children of measles and rubellas, polymyelitis, etc., let's take a little care of how much this greed for political power is going on. I was also talking about freedoms, and I really call on everyone who calls for democratic rights and freedoms, to make sure that it's not just this percentage of citizens who are opposed to vaccination and measures, that rights and democratic rights and human freedoms have those who have taken this pandemic very seriously, so act and act in their community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91722	You have a replica of one. Honored representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91723	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Murganic. You've been, uh, here all morning and afternoon here at HS, and somehow the intensity, especially the opposition MPs, is that HDZ wants to steal something again, that something will be non-transparent, and basically, I've never seen a more transparent procedure. From the Prime Minister who immediately called on the bridge to bring in signatures to count them together, to count them in front of the cameras, from what the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system did, we have only one intention. That the referendum should be conducted, if of course, and the Constitutional Court considers that the issues are consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that the people decide on what they will or will not do at that referendum. But to impose on the HDZ mantra that there is something he wants to suppress, that there is some other people that HDZ does not want, I think that the the thesis that absolutely does not hold water or has ever been a cornerstone in HDZ's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91724	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91725	Here, thank you. Thank you very much. I can only say, of course, that thesis was released to the public long before it even started collecting signatures. It was said immediately, ah, we'll collect signatures, but as much as we collect signatures, HDZ won't admit it. President Milanovic immediately said they were thieves, it is clear that they will steal this referendum, steal those signatures, but these are the alibis of the thesis, they are alibis of information that are deliberately released into public space, all with one goal, as she has now agreed in some way, the opposition political scene, we can say whatever we want, mainly that we are united and that we are muddy and we are talking against HDZ. Of course, they certainly have responsibility for their work and their actions, and they are calling for the people, so we will call on the people, and we will say, all of this, as in the elections so far, will be valued, of course, for the benefit of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91726	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91727	I thank the Vice-President of HS, here, I am not the person who will say this to anyone, I have just said this, offended and underestimated in any way, and so will this citizens' initiative that has collected, says that it has collected signatures, that I will not say and congratulate and that they have done great work, but also, I will not deny the institutions of this country that have the role to check really everything that has been done and because the new law has not been passed on to the referendum, we have a law that is older, which is actually in force and this one, after a civil initiative has been implemented for We decide together or enough has been censure and they have delivered to the president of HS, and then the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure has made a decision at its meeting of 3 February, since the current law is not prescribed who carries out the number and verabilities of the voters, the Committee has according to the previous practice of trusts and has been checked. To no longer question anyone, this is the first time that, when it comes to the referendum initiative, it is proposed to include members of those who have implemented the initiative in the signing count. Indeed, if we are normal and responsible people, and I think we are, I don't think we should be justified anymore, so if you want any imaginary doubts about any malfeasance, even though a coalition partner with Pantovic says that the Mosta will most likely be stolen. You have that saying that the enemy will never trust you, and you don't really have to check it out. So now we've solved all the dilemmas and I think it's the sin of any of us to say now that some side will be damaged in this initiative. Since there is no legal deadline, I hope that the legislator in a certain way will indeed conclude this referendum story by a certain deadline. And when a new law is passed, it should certainly remove all the doubts and all the dilemmas that may exist now in this Law, but tell someone that he did something, that he stole someone, and that there are no valid arguments, that's certainly not good. Here, too, it should be pointed out that it is extremely bad to send messages that people are not important. These same people have brought us and chosen to be in this highest legislative House, however, the problem here is that some are neglecting that people who gave this government trust and this parliamentary majority, and then they're not the things they see. What suits me is the people, and what does not suit me is not a people. That's what we had the chance to hear more than once here in the Parliament. Also, for the end of this whole story, it all comes down to actually the number of people infected, the number of people vaccinated and the number of people dead, and not to mention further economics, the flow of goods, services and everything that goes with the community. Of course, for the sake of decision-making operations if we couldn't make decisions here by two-thirds of the majority, if we had brought them here in this House, then today we'd still be just on those masks that were, we wouldn't have moved away from the beginning. And if we were acting like the whole normal world, then we'd have an 80 percent split and unfortunately we wouldn't have 14, almost 14 thousand people. And finally, clearly, look at the wonders, it's the headquarters's fault that some of them haven't been vaccinated. We are not in the virtues of the Great One, so that no information has come to us. Every day we have recommendations from the Staff, experts, scientists, their friends, who can give us quality information we want to vaccinate or we won't vaccinate. We are Croats, that's what we are. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91728	Replica, the first respected representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91729	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, colleague and colleague. We can politicize here as long as we want and as much as we want. I just want to point out some of the facts that have been here lately between us. The government has appointed the Chief of Staff, the expert chief of staff who delivers, prescribes professional.../incomprehensible......provided, proven, measures. On the basis of these and such measures, the government managed to preserve jobs, preserve the economy, achieve GDP or growth of the economy 10.5% in these and such conditions, these are facts. What's the opposition doing? He's acting like a drowning man. It simply panics at the straw in the absence of real initiatives, real ideas, because some minister may or may not have put on a protection mask in time with the referendum initiative, they go with all sorts of desperate moves that will cost tens of millions of kunas to the Croatian state. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91730	I thank my colleague. Yeah, I agree absolutely. I mean, here we have to say that we're not the only country in the world that has a pandemic, so the whole world is facing it, and I mean, we haven't discovered hot water, but the fact that we've been making two-thirds decisions in this House, so here, look, we're discussing this great referendum, the ones who started it are gone, there's very little of us in the assembly. So this body, the Staff must be operational, it must be quick, it must be effective and it must make decisions, after all, which will mean something to save the situation, but let's not forget that we are the country that had the least measure, and that we have managed to save jobs again, that we have actually kept our schools shut in the world at least and that these are indicators that are, in fact, giving the right to the Staff, or the Government that proposed to the Parliament to form the Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91731	The next replica honours MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91732	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Rade Simicevic, I think it is important to stress that vaccination is a continuous and long-term procedure and that the premature discontinuation of vaccination or non-vaccination can lead to very bad consequences. As one example, we can return only in 2008 when even the European Football Championship in Austria and Switzerland was under the name of the questionnaire precisely because of the outbreak of measles, and all due to lack of fissure, i.e. by no, collective fissure. The cause of that, of course, was conspiracy theories in public space. The conspiracy theory was very loudly promoted by Mr. Pernar in his own time, directed by Mr. Miletic, after which, membership in the Most and afterwards by the same rhetoric as Mr. Pernar, So again, I'm curious about how [[Intruder: Time.]] Are you commenting on this amount of hypocrisis? [[/Intruder: Time. Answer.]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91733	Oh, yeah, thanks, buddy. Yes, and I have to say my own example, when I was vaccinated, then my acquaintances, so unfortunately my friends who said I wouldn't live for another six months, but when it was six months, then they told me, yeah, you only got placebo, they only gave you water, so it's no vaccine, and now that it's nothing, then it's conspiracy theory again, that in that vaccine it's really just water. It's just that it's our patent, if it were our invention, then maybe I could suspect us Croats because that's what we are, when we go out of this country, then we're respected scientists, we're workers, when we're here in our own country, when we have to give the most, then we're actually disdaining this most legislative body and everything that others do. Instead of being the other way around, we should appreciate and respect everyone's work. And build on that pyramid of value. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91734	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91735	Your Honor. I hope we agree that the number of splits is actually the problem not only of those who appeared with the Staff but also of the Staff themselves. We have noises from headquarters in our communication. Unfortunately, in the same day, some members of the Staff provided completely conflicting information. On the other hand, there were people from some scientific circles who had their views, who were once again in one part of the Staff and Stoger’s views, on the other hand totally countered and, of course, that there was a confusion of total and people no longer knew what to do. Whether to vaccinate, not to be vaccinated, whether the vaccine is correct, is not correct, whether there is a vaccine, does not exist. That was everything. Secondly, I wanted to say, this part of the thesis that needs to be done, that a signature check should be done in the government or in the DIP. It doesn't matter here at all because it's going to be done by the Committee. What matters is what happens after that decision. Whether the Committee will be composed of members of the Government or of the DIP and people of the initiative and whether After that it will all be transparent in terms of [[Intruder: Time.]] that will... [[Intruder: Time, response to replica.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91736	Here you go. [[/Intruder: May I?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91737	Well, here's a thank you. Thanks, buddy. Yeah, well, look, the pandemic isn't everyday. It was actually a phenomenon of the century, and people in such situations are hard to cope with, and even those who are professional, and unfortunately when it comes to the profession of Croats, then those who are not professional, they are actually undermining it. I agree with you that there were probably some maybe decisions that were at that point, they didn't get a good result, but also, if it wasn't for the Staff, we'd really be in a hard, hard anarchy and the question of where would it all lead to. Well, after all, if we had split up to 80% like the whole courteous world, then we wouldn't have so many dead people. We've got 14,000 dead because we've got the worst split because we're just other countries. They have five times less mortality than we have. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91738	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91739	Thank you very much, Vice President Shimičević. You said if we're responsible people, it's bad to send messages that aren't based on quality information. It's bad to ignore people who trust this government and it all ultimately comes down to the number of vaccinated, infected, sick and the like. I come from Sibenik-Knin County, you neighbouring, in ours, as well as in your county the basic activity is tourism. What message to send to our fellow citizens, owners of catering and tourist workers who simply ignore how you say this quality information, and as if they don't care that we have recent and new rules for covid cards that prescribe and fissure which brings us into a very bad situation and thus we can significantly compromise our tourist season, and thus economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91740	Thank you. Now I'm gonna make fun of my colleague. It can be concluded from this fissure that we Dalmatians are some higher race or whatever I'm going to call it. But it's not true. Unfortunately, the only reason we have hospitals is because people haven't split. And when people, I had a chance to talk to people, only when they got sick then they asked for help from professions, doctors, and medicine, and before they got covid, then everything was demeaning. But the fact is that no one else lives on tourism as much as Dalmatia or all the counties on the Croatian Adriatic. And I hope that this covid will leave and that we will have the summer as we wish. But certainly not because we split up, but probably because this virus is going to mutate. so it will weaken. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91741	The next replica is the respected representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91742	... For calling a referendum now in the assembly, yes and no, here's a colleague. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And today, from their debates, we could conclude that their main goal is to abolish the covid certificate and get political points. Well, here it is, that they had any other smart and concrete suggestion we didn't hear. How do you comment on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91743	Thank you, colleagues. Well, yeah, let's just say that I could pull any civil initiative for a referendum I wouldn't use a covid certificate at this point, but everyone has their own attitude and thoughts. Once again, I really want to commend, congratulate the people who did it. But I also ask them not to be impatient and that there is a law that will regulate it. I think the covid certificates can only help in this situation, and they can't help it because we're really the ones who haven't been vaccinated. We stopped the disease at the hospitals, so here we are, hoping for schools and other facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91744	And the last replica, the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91745	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. Here may be the end of this debate to tell you the last thing I'm going to say. The main purpose of this debate today was obviously to plant doubt, send messages of doubt, and there the opposition colleagues, especially from the Most, did their part. You're a little offended, saying that you're not representatives of anything, you're not represented by anyone, you're not MPs, you're determined to be, you're saying that institutions are certainly not going to do it, regardless of these fuses that need to be put in there, and you're already in advance to say that it's all some kind of sloppy business that's going to result in I don't know what decisions you're making. On the other hand, we've heard that we don't even trust more citizens, that those who have 1% have confidence, that those who have 30 don't, that those who win the elections don't have, that those who lose the elections have and such a noise with some purpose that all insults, belittles and ultimately sends doubt is in fact the only kind of value of this debate that unfortunately went completely wrong from what was meant to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91746	Thank you. Well, yes, all of us who speak have the opportunity to speak here in this highest Croatian House, the Croatian Parliament in which the people elected us are behind their spoken words, and then we also said that democracy is what pleases us. Four years from now, the elections will come again and the HDZ will win again. It means these things that are being placed today aren't standing. It is also a fact that no matter how anyone may think it, but all those who have sinned in the law have been brought in, and I also want everyone who has sinned in any way in the law to be arrested and not to be a part of the political scene, not to send messages, that something that does not resemble the law is worth doing, but rather that what is done badly in this Croatian state will have a strong message and will be punished for it. And listen, about the lies and the insinuations that some of them say here, we can't do it all. Not at all. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91747	Individual debate of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91748	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we heard here debates that went in every direction possible. The motives of the referendum were troubled whether it was really motivated by the health of the nation, whether it was from political motives, whether the people would really decide the future or not. They claim that everything remains the same, but now it will be a little harder to make decisions if the referendum passes. And since there's a lot of nicknames here by the ruling people, it's normal for you to have a lot of attacks, too. There's no colleague here who said we were all attacking you. Normally, everyone attacks and wonders why such a defensive stand. On the other hand, the possibility of making real decisions with a two-thirds majority is being questioned, which is really justified, because we know how different it looks, how different we are, how different our attitudes are. Again, doubts are expressed by the MOST and the initiative on whether the signatures collected within the deadline will really be counted correctly, whether there will be any counting problems, whether there will be any to say the movement of the signatures that are valid, etc. etc. Whether the signature check will be entrusted to the DIP or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we must be aware that the signature check will be carried out in the same company. So it's going to be done in the APIS, and whether something is going to be transparent or not will be decided by a body forming a commission. If the body forms a commission that will have other than those members or from the DIP or from the Government and members of the initiative and then allow the data to be entered as well by the members of the initiative I think it will be much more transparent than anything else. And to answer one question here now how to increase transparency since here you're always asking us to make some suggestions, to make suggestions. Here's a suggestion on how to be really transparent. I said the commission should have members of the initiative. The entry of data on signatures should be brought in by people who are employed in a company that will exercise control, and the verification of these same data should be done by people from the initiative. So let's get organized and let's do the verification. After that, when all the data is entered I suggest, I suggest that, or all those who are in the register with signatures, emails are sent to the E-Citizen system or that a list of all those people who were, I wrongly said no list, but a database of all those people who were signed on the Internet and that every citizen of this country can check with his OIB whether he signed it, whether it is valid or not. And here's transparency. If we have to, we can explain it a little bit later. So the solutions are there, we have them, and transparency can really increase. If we want to stop at that once in the end, these are suggestions that will certainly allow the assembly no longer to talk about any suspicions that someone has gathered something wrong, that something has faked or there will be room to say that something has been stolen in the control of the signature. Well, then, you're on the move. We'll support everything that's smart and good. Besides, I asked two questions in the replica. If we cancel the covid confirmation of how we're going to go to other countries of Europe? And here I will add to this question what will happen to tourists who come to Croatia, whether we quarantine them and keep them there in quarantine for 10 days and test or we will treat them differently. And the second question was about that two-thirds majority, which is questionable anyway, and when important decisions are made right now in the Assembly, we know that we are difficult to buy at the very vote of two-thirds. Therefore, we must be aware of this, and decisions must be made practically on a daily basis. There are some other things that have been related to calling that we have too little support. I'm just going to remind the parliamentary MPs who were talking about how the opposition actually got more votes than it did by ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91749	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91750	I only have one question. You mentioned APIS, however, there is nowhere in this material that APIS is intended as a legal person to control, or an institution that would control the validity of the collected signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91751	Well, I'll do that since I've been in the APIS for 23 years. There is a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the APIS, there is a contract between the DIP and the APIS that deals are done for the needs of the Government and that transactions are done for the needs of the DIP. And I don't think there's a need now to create some kind of new application, some new system for a few million or ten million kuna that will do the same job that can be done on existing servers, on existing infrastructure and with existing applications. There are people who are trained, who are trained, who are involved in elections, who know election processes, who know referendum processes, who know referendums, who know ultimately the system that cares about these bases, about voter bases, about bases and about voting lists. So I don't think there's any point in putting a third option in this game and spending extra money on the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91752	The next replica is the respected representative of Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91753	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here you raised a few important questions related to covid certificates, tourism, travel etc. Now we're all surprised by the miracle, because what we're going to do with tourism and it's actually late for decisions all the time. That the government had the courage and the prime minister, that they had made it clear to the people long ago when 80% of the people were vaccinated, when there was less burden on the health system, less hospitalisation, less deaths, then we would end all epidemiological measures and covid certificates, and that didn't happen. Furthermore, the Staff and the Government made a lot of mistakes, producing great dissatisfaction with citizens and us health professionals. I remind you that we've been mobilized for two years and no one's asking us how we're doing? 14320 dead to this day and is not at all a controversial referendum as such as expressing the will of the people, but what I told my colleagues from MOST, means at no time parallel to the referendum you did not protect us health care professionals who call Satans, you did not clearly call for vaccination, motivated people to stick to epidemiological measures, and now we have what we have. And there's no matter at all about how it was said to make alliances of SDP, HDZ or worse SDP, MOST than to think clearly as soon as possible of stopping the pandemic. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91754	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91755	Honorable MPs, you're here almost every day in this assembly and you know that we talked about it here, that I was talking about traffic techniques and that what we were talking about trafficker techniques after that was misread. Semaphoric techniques do not serve to reduce or increase something, but to know what will be done if something happens and to make it clear to the people, yeah, if we split us 80%, then that's what happens. When it's split 85%, that's what happens, that's what happens. If the people had known that, it would have been better. I was also talking about the fact that the Chief of Staff had confusing decisions, that he was confusingly presenting his data and his views. It happened several times, it can be checked on the portals, that in the same day one member of the Staff said one thing, another member of the Staff said the other without talking about a scientific community that had completely conflicting attitudes that were contrary to everything that had been said until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91756	Followed by a replica of respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Pavić, therefore, doubts itself by the initiative where something is going to happen is justified because of what was happening, I know that this person has a name and a last name and I am not generally inclined to generalise, nor do I personally feel that this is good. What I'd like to ask you from your presentation is, so you mentioned, so we'd travel if we didn't have Covid's confirmation. Now I'm going to ask you another question, then what's the point of Covid's confirmation? Is it human health or the meaning of Covid is to confirm the journey, that we can go where we want to go and on the other hand, that our country can come, given that we are a tourist country, anyone who wants to. I am responsibly claiming to you that the referendum initiatives, so the first one I would not personally participate in, if it were to collect political points. I know that perhaps in the past, the Bridge has had these or those kind of stigmas, I'm talking about today. So the referendum initiatives were aimed at, in the focus of any health, not a journey, because we were always stressing that the vaccinated people with Covid were carrying the virus. and emphasized the importance... [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91758	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91759	Your Honor. When a tourist or your colleague comes here to the Parliament, he's not vaccinated and does a test outside, and then that test is worth three days to him and he's negative today, that doesn't mean he'll be negative tomorrow. And that's what this is about. If he's been vaccinated, the odds are he won't be positive tomorrow. That's what the profession tells you, that's not what I'm talking about. So that's what I'm saying from what the doctors say, which is what the profession says that if we're split, we'll be better off, there'll be fewer consequences, we'll live better and better. Those who are infected with the virus will have no such consequences, won't need to go to the hospital, there will be less mortality. However, this has not been accepted as such, and now if we release those who have not been vaccinated in Croatia, what will we get? An anti-vaxer party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91760	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91761	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Vice President. It is good that I do not chair the HS because believe me that 2/3 of the parliament would really get a reminder not by sticking to the subject because here the subject is not a measure of the referendum but is, but rather, a proposal for the conclusions that we have received regarding who will verify the signatures of this, the collected signatures, and about the implementation of the referendum. And that's all we need to discuss today, no. However, for extensive interpretations, the favor of the chairman, we're talking about the metrics and we're talking about pandemics, and we're basically here a little... who will count the votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as I say, there's a dilemma. There's a dilemma, here, I'll just read you an article. 33 The law which first reads, passed at the eighth session, the Law of Referendum, so that he whom the Proposer had given. It says, the DIP is obliged to establish the number of eligible voters' signatures within a day, from 30 days from the date of receipt of the signed lists from HS. In the event of a simultaneous submission of several requests for a referendum, the time limit for the determination of the number of eligible voters' signatures shall be extended by 30 days per each of the request for a referendum. Then let's go read a little bit about what DIP's affairs are, and we'll see that the DIP is in charge of implementing the source and the referendum, the DIP is in charge, as well as of overseeing the financing of political activities, but also of this, the promotion and the questions of the referendum and also of other competences, and we, in conclusion, are proposed to the HS here to give it to the Government. The government will then give it to the Department of Administration, I was one of those who collected signatures for 67+, not to mention all the obstructions. I don't get into the metrics, I don't even get into the metrics of this, what the referendum is, but there's justifiable doubt like this. We're looking at winning a source here, this one, that one. We're afraid of our own citizens here. This is fear of its own citizens. Because the moment that we have the reasonable doubt that we can very easily remove by giving it to the DIP so that everyone is clean and that the referendum succeeds or fails because in the end, if we really have this trust of the citizens we have and we consider it, and each of us will invite citizens to commit to some views on this referendum, the citizens will surely listen to the parliamentary majority and say on the basis of suggestions that we should vote on. Are we afraid of how the people will vote? The people who chose us. You and us both. They'll fight, so we're afraid of our own people. So let's not be cowards. Let's just, uh, remove a reasonable suspicion of corruption or anything, let's let the DIP count the votes. What's the problem? What's the problem? We fear our own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91762	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91763	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected colleague injured Article 238 because he was partially out of the picture. Dear colleague when you started I thought here we will finally conclude with what the topic of today's debate is, then you started reading articles of the proposal for a referendum law which is not a topic today. That's what we had in our first reading, and it'll come to a second reading. So what I want to say today is here the theme of the proposal for a conclusion on sending government signatures to count As is the procedure now in force. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91764	This was your replica, you get a third warning and you lose the right word until the end of the debate. There's a final debate coming up. First on behalf of the Club, representatives of CENTRA and GLAS, respected representative, and pardoning the violation of the Rules of Procedure Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91765	Article 238 was injured because the facts had to be told after all. I would ask to be delivered to me now a valid prescribed procedure for this referendum or in general for all the referendums and you will see that there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91766	And a reminder to you, because you used this as a replica. The debate is over. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91767	First, I will speak to my colleague Jelkovec because she could use a replica compared to her colleague Fabianic. She could have raised a replica legally, but she didn't. You know why? Because you don't get a chance to get someone back at you with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you don't like it when someone replicates you in a way that makes their arguments. So throughout today, what we've had most of our chances to hear a sentence since it's not the law and then three points. Well, gentlemen, dear, what body in the Republic of Croatia makes laws and, among other things, the referendum law? I guess the Croatian Parliament. But for 30 years, HDZ has not been enough, because there is no time to come up with laws and procedures that protect citizens' right to a direct statement. HDZ is too busy robbing, using everything else as if it were theirs, as if it were their own. Well, then what's done since there's no law, and you don't know who's supposed to bring it or suggest it. Then the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in which the HDZ parliamentary majority again has its majority, said it would now count the government. Why the government? Apparently, there's no smarter job in a country where it's all gone wrong since the renovations, than the economic crisis, than the supply of gas, and more than the purchases. This does not even know how to count, but it does not know what time limits are to be carried out. It is not even known what the commission actually serves and what two, three allegedly independent observers mean in that commission. So, where there are no implementing deadlines, where there are no clear instructions, that observation committee will be just a commission to determine stolen time and perhaps even stolen signatures. Nothing prevented the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system from checking in the same way that he said the signatures would be checked by the Government, saying it would be checked by the State Election Commission as an independent and proven successful institution in this procedure. That's the first thing. Another thing I wanted to say. The fact that during the entire debate today, many topics have nothing to do with the conclusion itself. There was talk of the Staff, there were measures, there was talk of the vaccine itself. This is how I didn't replicate like I didn't even do any damage to the Rules of Procedure because I saw it didn't make sense. During the day, they swore to me those warnings that other presidents gave to other MPs. And what we could do to say that for half those warnings there were no conditions at all. We could appeal to the same Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and again to the same HDZ parliamentary majority. What really bothers me? I'm bothered by that hypocrisy. I am disturbed by the hypocrisy because this same government and its parliamentary majority are messing with the election laws of neighbouring BiH, and for 30 years they haven't been able to regulate their own laws. For 10 years, we have an unconstitutional election unit set up, and how many years we have been unable to resolve the basic issues of a referendum initiative. Yeah, that bothers me. It bothers me that HDZ is equating with the term "state", so it takes the right to make ad hoc rules the way they need them at a certain point. And it also bothers me that this situation, however this count and verification of the signature, will end up being a win-win situation for both the MOST and the HDZ, because it will give each other a chance to reinterpret, to manipulate both the data and the meaning of the covid certificate as well as the entire system of measures against the pandemic. After all, whether the pandemic has not already been defeated twice, and only when it was needed in the electoral political process. As the epidemiological measures themselves have adapted to the daily-political needs of the HDZ, and this has led to the loss of citizens' trust in both the Stoger and the vaccines, and this has also resulted in a causation or a request to call this referendum. However, I really expect to address the issue of electoral legislation as soon as possible, as well as the matter of the referendum. Thank you and I look forward to your injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91768	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91769	The 238th representative Dalia Oreshković is, of course, obsessed with the Croatian Democratic Community and uses every opportunity to shake, blame and uglyly express, lie and mud. We know when we can lift the line, and when we don't have it, then we raise the Rules of Procedure. It's a person who doesn't have a base, who doesn't have a party, who didn't have a successful or electoral assembly, who's changed her party's name more times than she has members. and who will soon be out of the club. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91770	Time. You have a warning. Let's go next, please be quiet. Let us hear the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91771	Thank you very much, Vice President, Article 238. Well, colleague Oreskovic performed very temperamentally today in this final speech as well as apparently her colleague, who she supports in the city of Split, the mayor who sent reporters such a terrible message that she failed to condemn. Well, when everyone got a cramp in that power, they decided to send that man to the workshop, so here's my good and modest proposal to take Mrs. Oreshkovic along to that workshop, so let's learn what a temperament is and what isn't. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91772	And to you, too, because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91773	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Injury 238, Article 238. Mrs Dalia has not mentioned here in a single word the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I'm surprised by this, too. In the last year and a half, not a single one of her speeches was that she hadn't mentioned the commission, and today she said she didn't mention it at all, and I don't think these are her words at all, it's not her speech. That's what someone wrote to her and it offends me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91774	Okay. It's also a reminder to you. Followed by the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91775	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 of absolutely all HDZ representatives who reported earlier were injured. But here I am going to forgive them today about the goodness of my soul, to correct one injustice, and yet to mention the custom. Of course, I'll mention that to the Committee of Decisions on conflict of interest. Here I think we should really review all conflicts of interest of Minister Banozic, Frke-Petesic and even the chairman of the Croatian Parliament and especially the Look back at their lies brought out these days in the media. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91776	A reminder to you, too, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Damir Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91777	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing today almost all day, in fact, a very simple document, so the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on two initiatives, so "Let's decide together" and "There's enough of headquarters". In principle, one document that is part of one of the elements is actually a referendum procedure. And well said by someone here before. In fact, there was talk here today about everything, and at least about the document itself. So this debate could basically end very quickly, but it wasn't the goal, it wasn't actually the motive of the ones that we're here for today and here. I don't mean the people to whom the Most is called. And that's where I'm going to connect to what my colleague Oreshkovic said, and she had a lot of trouble with her in her final debate, so a few things she mentioned. I'm sorry he's not here anymore. She mentioned that we at HDZ are called that we are the state, that we are the people. I don't know if she listened to today's debate. So, just an contrario, so most, or almost all the representatives from our club were saying no, we're not saying that. Although if we really want to look at the result of the election, then in the past time we might be able to say most people represent this very option. But that says MOST, we're a people. So, 410,000 signatures all day long we've been listening, we're the people. That's the first thing and that's the thing I wanted to say since colleague Oreshkovic mentioned it. But what I was going to say. So, the motive of this referendum is not to protect people's health, it's not to protect people's lives, it's not to question human rights or restrictions on human rights and freedom that you've been calling for here. The motive is actually very simple and is visible since you left, and the chronologically nice colleague Boric actually apologized when that story appeared and lasted until today. So it's very simple and it's already seen and read many times already, and that's therefore a collection of cheap political points. And I'm going to say what I said on several occasions and what you've so far as I understand it's a parathystisation of the very health of life and the health of people, that's exactly what this referendum initiative is. And it would be interesting if you had used this amount of energy you've used since November, so since this whole story started, if you'd used some of that energy on what your colleague Maric said to invite people to vaccination, that you really do, so you care about protecting people's lives and health, then you would have done exactly that. So you'd listen to the profession, but it didn't matter to you. It was important for you on this story to collect a few cheap political points. Why is that visible? It's actually visible from a whole series of illogicalities in your statements. I also repeat my colleague, Boric, very well-detecting them. When did you start? So you're already during the signing ceremony saying we have 300,000, we have 400,000. Today, counterpart Miletic said very interestingly that every day he had the exact number of data on how many signatures were collected. That's what fellow Miletic said in this assembly. Therefore, you knew the exact number of signatures the last day. Yeah? After all, Miletic said we have 400,000 and more. So why didn't you turn them in? Why didn't you hand over those signatures the other day as the Prime Minister himself asked you to come to Mark's Square, let's all here cameras, the public, let's count the signatures. And of course you've raised doubts about what you've been doing for a month? What happened to those signatures? And that's a legitimate question that we as ruling have the right to ask you. And it's interesting that you started with the story and the awakening of doubt when you were done collecting signatures that someone was going to steal something from you, so you started that story, which was very interesting, right? You were talking about 50,000 volunteers, it was down to five volunteers who were collecting signatures, so 44,995 volunteers have just disappeared in this month, a month and a half. So, the topic was the conclusion that is very simple, so someone here has said either we are for or we are against, part, a small part of the wheel in this referendum procedure that I believe we're going to adopt, I think is reasonable. On the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Bačić put forward a proposal to include observers and your options to be present at the count. I really don't see the need for this today's emphasis on suspicion, intransparency, etc., but it's just part of this folklore that's actually been going on since you started that whole initiative. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the committee's conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91778	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91779	Marina, I've been collecting something, I've been missing another 30 seconds, but my colleague, Habib, when we've been looking at the election results since 2000. HDZ lists have been given about 5 million and 100, and our list of 5 million and 200 votes, and you are constantly in power, so that's what your numbers are, your maths and everything. All right. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll talk about the metrics. So we've proposed three amendments, they've already been rejected by the Constitution Committee, but I hope the plenary session will have more understanding. The first is that in order to support and demonstrate our love and trust for this government, it is now starting to apply what the government has proposed in the first reading of the referendum law, which is that it counts a DIP or already some workshop, which, which... As far as this second amendment is concerned, we have proposed to set a deadline, which is, if I have listened well to my colleague Fabianic, but also in this bill of law which the government has referred to in the procedure, and the Assembly has also accepted the above, only what we have said for 30 days, and they have said that if two questions are two times 30 days, then they can. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third to be the commission to oversee it. It is a kind of repair or aberration of what has already been proposed in the conclusion of the Constitution Committee that two representatives of the initiative, but since it is a law enforcement and something that, according to the plebiscite of all political parties, is undernourished to be a body that will be supervisory, a kind of parliamentary fraud, if it is a disputed situation to see whether the signature is incomprehensible, whether it is a person who is not this voter and the like, if there are disputed situations to clarify it, and all in order, and now perhaps a little of this is not fully agreed that after counting the signatures could not be questioned again. Of course, how we vote on this decision depends on how our amendments will go. As for the rest of the discussion, everyone who expected the debate to take a moment's notice and a broader outline than just the drying conclusion of the board on who was going to count the signatures could have expected, although I must admit that much less than my expectations were today, perhaps it also contributed to the rapid collection of three warnings from the front of my fellow bridge, and then simply no longer, they did not come. Let me cut it short or finish it 'cause I've got a little time left. The referendum should be a correction to parliamentary or representative democracy, not to replace it. It is something that is always good to repeat when we are given lessons about the people and about what, what, what the people and how the people. If the people had decided everything, there would be no parliament in the world but would have kept calling the referendums. People every 4 years. He can send us all to the stock market or retire or whoever wants to get us back to the old job that he wants, what the people, what the party. Well, it doesn't usually work to the extent that some think it should, but it's up to the citizens again, to the people. The referendum is therefore desirable for us, whether in this form or in another, and there is no point in discussing it anymore because the process is over. Congratulations to those who have organized the signings which have succeeded in gathering a respectable number whose accuracy will be determined. I thank the citizens who have signed because they have thus strengthened their faith in the institutions, at least in the institution of the Constitution that prescribes a referendum, I thank those who did not sign out because they simply disagree, but I call them if a referendum is called to go out and vote on it by their conscience and, of course, I thank all those who have contributed to this once again for the 48th time to find out that the referendum matter has been subdued and that we need to, that we need to strengthen it and expect the parliamentary majority to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91780	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91781	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to a little more reference to Mr. Bauk's exposure and what I said at the beginning when I had my own exposure to who was calling on the people and why we were calling on the people. Members of the opposition are fully entitled to call upon the people... because we got more percent in the election than we got that currently ruling option. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's easily verifiable, and it doesn't need to be defused from the bench, or in any other way, we can easily sum it up, we have results here. Secondly, as far as the referendum is concerned, as far as this referendum is concerned, we believe that the referendum should be implemented. He would join the congratulations of those who launched the initiative and collected so many signatures, and I hope that those proposals that we have made here will be transparent for the implementation of the vote-gathering process, or for the signature of the signature control, that they will be implemented and that this will later enter into the legislation. This is not only necessary for this referendum, it is also necessary for all referendums in the future because I think everyone wants to know whether the signatures are collected at the right time in a legitimate way, and of course they are even more interested in whether later signatures are being controlled in an adequate way. In order to avoid any suspicion, I call upon the majority to put it into laws because otherwise we will have to change it later in the laws of 2.g. When we come to power. So it better be done now than later. We will support this initiative in full, we believe that citizens who have given their signatures have shown their will and would thank those citizens who will go to the referendum in advance if the referendum is called, or if it turns out that the number of votes or signatures declared by the boys or the team from the initiative were indeed collected. We talked a lot about what kind of attitude to take, in which direction to discuss, I think that the debate on our part was at least constructive, that we contributed at least a little bit to the signing of this referendum and future referendum initiatives, as well as to increasing the transparency and visibility of what is actually happening where our citizens cannot come and that we will be able to see those who are interested in the future for any referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91782	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91831	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a decision to resolve part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the second is: - Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 8. The law on ensuring the quality of science and higher education. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Stipe Mamic. I'm sorry, let's just see the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91832	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes to warn that it's embarrassing, but it's really embarrassing that HDZ no longer in its pool is obviously running for candidates, and that it's not to this extent clienteletically networked that the debate of several hours won't be enough to explain all the clienteletic networks of those you're proposing here at the Science and Higher Education Agency. So you're proposing to the man Damir South who's the Dean of the Private High School of Communication Management Edward Bernays, and I'm going to warn that the Agency for Science and Higher Education is a very serious agency, so she's taking care of the quality of science. You're proposing a man who was Karamark's advisor allegedly is pro bono to get his Millenium Project or Millenium Projects contract with Đur Djakovic, who was then 100% owned by the state so that your meaning tourism minister Nikolina Brnjak would first give a scientific lecture, and that this company's Millenium Promotion... receive a luxuriant contract of 3.5 million kuna with the state and for the contract, therefore for a marketing operational plan which should follow the sustainable tourism strategy by 2030. which has not been written at all yet, which will cost four times less than this means an operational plan. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here I am just warning you that this is really about one, but really, really embarrassing appointment. I'm going to ask you a few more questions about myself, with the exchange itself in that meaning of the Board of Directors of the Science and Education Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91833	Okay. We continue to work on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91834	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, honourable MPs and representatives of HS. Art. ed.st. 2. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education is prescribed that the president and members of the board of directors be appointed in time from 4.g. St. 6 of the same law is prescribed that the term of office of the President or a member of the Governing Council may be terminated before the end of the period of 4 years, and in particular if I request a resolution if he or she seeks to violate the duties laid down by the statute of the Agency in the event of inability to perform his duty for a period of more than 6 months, in the event of a permanent loss of his or her ability to perform his duties, and in the event of a judicial conviction for a criminal offence which makes him unworthy of his duties. In accordance with Article 7 of the same article on the existence of a reason for the resolution of the President and member of the Governing Council appointed by HS before the end of the period to which the Agency is appointed shall inform the HS. Since so far a member of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency has been appointed on the proposal of the Council of the University and the Higher Schools of Prof. dr.sc. Vlatko Cvrtila selected as the Rector of the University of VERN and accordingly is no longer a member of the council of higher education and higher schools need to conduct the discharge procedure. For a new member of the board of directors of the agency, the councils of the university and high schools suggest the appointment of Dr.sc. Damira South South to the president of the council of universities and high schools. Also, a member appointed to the Croatian proposal, on the proposal of the Croatian Student Assembly Mr. Nedjeljko Jurkovic no longer has student status and can no longer act as a member of the board of directors of the agency in accordance with the regulations. Therefore, Mr Neven Pitaric is proposed by the Croatian Student Assembly for a member of the board of directors of the agency. The Ministry of Science and Education received new proposals for members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and also referred to the appointment of the Croatian Assembly through the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91835	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91836	Thank you. So you mentioned that you were changing Vlatka to the Citadel of the Dean, the Dean of the Private School, because Vlatko Certila ran for office so that he was run for office means high school means high school. I guess that's because VERN became a university. But the fact that VERN from the private university passed to the university happened to a brother about two years ago, so I wonder how it is possible that Vlatko Cvrtila was even a 2 year member of the board since he had nothing to do with high schools and universities for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91837	So here I can answer briefly, as I said in the opening presentation, the representatives delegate the student assembly on the one hand, on the other hand, and the council of universities and high schools who choose their own representative. So in this context it's obvious that they've submitted the proposal now recently sent to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91838	Second replica, respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91839	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, since colleague Katarina Peovic asked for a break with further explanation earlier today, has brought the whole fire to the election, or to the proposal of candidate Mr Damir South, on behalf of the council of higher education and higher schools, I have obtained the impression that she is not referred to the selection procedure of members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency, so I would kindly ask you to explain once again what the competent authorities are proposing candidates for members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency, and by explaining the role of the council of universities and higher schools as one of the proposings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91840	Here, thank you very much for asking. It's not like they say repeating is the mother of learning, so it's not hard to repeat. The fact is, the council of the university is proposing a member. When we received the proposal, given the fact that Certila could no longer behave this duty we submitted a new proposal to the Croatian Parliament. The same situation is also for a student assembly representative who lost student status, thus not representing students in the agency's board of directors. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91841	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91842	And the breach of Rules of Procedure in 238, colleague Bedekovic suggested that I did not understand, means that I do not understand the procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency, which is clearly incorrect. So, the university and universities are proposing to the government, the government is proposing to the assembly, it's Mrs. Bedekovic's procedure, so don't correct me for something I obviously know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91843	Okay, this was your replica to Mrs. Bedekovic, you have a warning. Vesna Bedeković injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I also believe that Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I merely pointed out the need for further explanations and explanations to my colleague, the way in which members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency are elected, and I would only point out the fact that neither of us nor Mrs. Peović is invited nor can judge or judge the council of higher education and higher schools, especially on the proposal from this council for a member of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. It's just not how you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91845	A reminder to you, too, because this was your replica, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91846	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague injured Article 238, insulting and disdaining her colleague, Bedekovic, for not only did she do to the colleague in question, said that the secretary of state reiterated that the procedure was being carried out by a colleague at the beginning saying that she was not choosing a council of universities but that Tomislav Karamarko was choosing the proposed candidate, which is for every conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91847	All right, you too are being warned because you have become more involved in the replica than in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is on behalf of HSS and RF MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91848	Good afternoon, everybody. Let's do it again. So the parliament appoints members of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and, on a proposal from the government, the HDZ government mostly is. Now, here's the basic question and I think it's really absurd that someone here says that we don't have the authority or competence to decide or comment on who's proposed so colleagues from HDZ and colleagues here we're parliamentary representatives who have received a motion to resolve and appoint to the Administrative Council of the Science and Higher Education Agency and no one is more competent or invited here to discuss it, and I'm sorry that even more people don't get involved in such an important topic, so it's a very important agency, meaning an agency that guarantees quality in science. It is therefore an agency that carries out accreditation, re-accreditation, conducts the thematic evaluation process, implements the procedure of external and independent periodic assessment of internal quality assurance and improvement systems, collects and processes data on the science and higher education system, implements the procedure of professional recognition of foreign higher education qualifications, means it provides information in the conditions of enrolment at higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, performs the activities of including the science and higher education systems in the international system. So the Agency for Science and Higher Education, based on government estimates, didn't deserve to have members who would really give the agency a little credit and credibility, but the rectors and deans of private universities, universities and universities where the year pays 30,000 kuna, and the passing on exams is 90%, and what we can read in the media is mostly about how their students consume cocaine. And that means the council composition that the government has proposed to us here, and I'm going a little bit wider about who was proposed. But first of all, the question I asked the secretary of state how Vlatka Cvrtila means she's replacing herself in this procedure at all. So Vlatko Cvrtila was appointed on the proposal of the university and high schools. There was a change because his university, once the University of Vern, became a university. That was two years ago, so that man can't represent high school and high school when he's two years old. It has nothing to do with them, but, of course, it wasn't too much of a concern for the government sitting in that board. I can also say that now that a member who was appointed by the student assembly has graduated, who knows when he graduated, maybe we should find out if, maybe he graduated 4 years ago, I don't know. But him, it is necessary to appoint a new member because he had previously graduated. For the new student representative, it's pretty much true that I have to say amazingly for this younger generation that it doesn't have a B-1 level of English, and no other language knows, but let's put it aside. But it is really a question of what, isn't it possible that from the ranks of the university and the higher schools there can be no other candidate but the very proposed new member of Damir Jugo, one of the usually youngest deans in Croatia Edward Bernays from the higher school, former Karamark's adviser and partner of proven plagiarist God Skoka, with whom he worked first for Bandic for years through the Millenium promotion, and then for HDZ and for various ministers and ministers. Edward Bernays hosts the orderly HDZ and cultivates business connections in a way that first HDZ is held here and there by the lecture, and then the contract with the state is signed. So South and Skoko have been working closely with HDZ since Karamark since '12. By '16, he was led by his pear. This Regulation shall enter into force on Yugoslavia was appointed special adviser to the social activities of the first Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamark without cash compensation is reportedly eating pro bono, but his agency accidentally gets a job with the state-owned company and despite the current current ban on hiring pirate agencies in state-owned, state-owned companies. Millenium promotion concluded 2016 marketing contract with Đuro Đaković holding company which was then in majority state ownership. I can only comment on that Djuro Djakovic, who was already on track, ever since everything goes down, so the state gave up Djura Djakovic, took it off the list of companies of state importance, then the famous entrepreneur Filantrop Bakic enters Đuro Đaković, the devastion starts year after year, workers don't get paid, then Bakic withdraws, and Đuro Đaković here now enters Đur Đaković and it's inevitable until it lasts, and everything depends on the hills that obviously won't provide them with enough work to survive. But there was money with the Pear Agency in 2016 to sign the contract and that means the government's counter-declaration of the ban on the employment of pirate companies in state institutions and companies brought by Zoran Milanović jel. However, they also have links with the new HDZ, especially with Tourism Minister Nikolina Brnjac, who first led a scientific lecture there at Bernays, and then the Millennium Promotion would, of course, receive a contract in October 2021, the job of promoting Croatia's tourism strategy and that in a tender that many experts claim to be precisely set up for the company, which proves that only two companies could report to the competition. The competition is difficult not less than €3.5 million and this is for the strategic marketing and operational plan of Croatian tourism, which is paradoxically brought, not parallel to or rather than before the Sustainable Tourism Development Strategy 2020. which is made and costs only 790,000 kuna, means 4 times more, which is already written by Đurjica Klancir. Damir Jugo otherwise doctored at the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek in 2015, a well-known university where doctors are being repaired after the defense, where his mentor and member of the commission was Bozo Skoko. So Bozo Skoko, South's mentor is known to the general public as the author of a series of articles and pamphlets and panegirics about Ivica Todorovic where all critics of Todorovic and his craftsmen from the state wrote off and criticised as simple representatives of what the Croatian public said, were all those who spoke against Todorovic simply clear and that was it. It is less famous to the public, Bozo Popko, as a censor of literary journals at the Student Center as a barely finished journalism student, where young people there explained what censorship means, so the texts we couldn't publish described and interpreted in a simple dictionary are not up to me, they look at me and I know what they think, it was one of the best definitions of censorship until today's day. So the future PR was shown by Skoko at the time, and otherwise God's Skoki was proven to be a scientific plagiarizer twice. The first time he copied from Wikipedia, the second time he plagiarized the text of Dežulovic. This did not prevent him from being promoted by some state officials as Ivo Josipovic, unfortunately he did not mind in his successful career venture of the PR agency either. Of course, he teaches at Bernays today, teaches there for a long time, and otherwise the school gave him the prize in 2019. First prize for the overall scientific contribution to the development of public relations profession regardless of plagiarists. The award was presented to him at the Communication Management Forum, whose plan is the programme board member Buljan Flander, and in the organisational committee and her daughter Mia Flander Tadic, who also teaches naturally guess where Edward Bernays high school and therefore established plagiarist is awarded the award there. As a dean, Damir Jugo also proposed Buljan Flander for the award and this partnership with the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children and Youth of the City of Zagreb was to say very successfully between the two companies, a socially responsible project is being launched at your home. A good relationship with Buljan Flander is being grown before Buljan Flander resigned naturally at the place of the polyclinic means the director of the polyclinic when it was found in public to use the concept of an unknowing estrangement concept where mothers were being accused as abusers under this unknown concept. Most influential people of politics and the media were on Bernays for the fee, creating a network of power and influence. Otherwise I'll still mention some characters in the open exposure. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91849	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first is Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91850	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleague Peovic, injured the Rules of Procedure because she dealt with everything and everything, and most of all with the relief of people who are not the subject we do not choose today. About a respected professor, a regular professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Bozi Skoki spoke in the characteristics that do not stand for this home, and in particular have nothing to do with this topic. Bozo Skoko is an honorable man who does his job in quality, is an excellent communicator and contributes to understanding and communication in our Guys. [[Intruder: Time.]] What Mrs. Peovic is saying has nothing to do with decent communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91851	Okay, I agree, but here's what's become of us. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91852	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I also believe that Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure above all, which, because of the fact that a colleague spoke really beyond the subject and about a person who is not at all proposed here as a member of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency, and then, on the other hand, because a respected colleague really offends the competent authorities. First of all, the council of higher education and higher schools, which one body was founded in 2003, gathers 34 members of the university and high school and is independent in deciding and proposing its candidates for different other bodies. I think this really hurts Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91853	All right, well-respected representative Katarina Peovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91854	In 238, the demeaning of the MPs was not really me, it was not me who demeaned the university and the high schools but they were demeaning themselves with such a proposal that they made, it is far beyond the subject and the criticism that it was beyond the subject, here you are about what is called a mosaic link in network communication. So you really need to explain the candidate we're talking about here, and unfortunately, this candidate has really wide networked connections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91855	Okay. Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91856	I thank the chairman. Here, is there 10, 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, I 10th and Chairman. 11 members are therefore interested in the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Here before me, a colleague elaborated so she explained, explained that I am not repeating myself now I wanted to say because I can repeat everything she is, her whole debate about who Mr. Damir Jugo is proposing here on the proposal of the council of universities and high schools in this administrative council. counterpart Bedekovic said they are completely independent in proposing their member of the board, but if they are completely independent then what we are discussing here, why is this coming to the assembly at all? So here I am not going to repeat everything about whether Damir Jugo is a recent special, formerly special adviser to former Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamark, the Dean of the High School of Communication Management, whose founder is Visual in, her founder is Mario Petrovic, also one of the founders of the Millennium Promotions, etc., connected with a potential conflict of interest and business that was obtained with state-owned company Đur Djakovic despite a legal ban at the time. However, what I'd like to say here, so a little bit about what the Science and Higher Education Agency is at all. Thus, the Agency for Science and Higher Education was founded by the adoption of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education in 2009 and then became competent to ensure quality in higher education in the Republic of Croatia. It also conducts external evaluations of higher education institutions based on European standards and guidelines. According to that law, the Agency implements part of the initial accreditation procedures, recredit procedures, thematic evaluation procedures, external independent periodic judgments of internal quality assurance and improvement systems, collecting, processing, data on the system of higher education science and other systems with which science and higher education are interdependent. It provides further information on the conditions of enrolment in higher education in the Republic of Croatia and implements the procedure for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications and provides information on foreign and Croatian higher education systems. One of the Agency's tasks is the successful functioning of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, advice on funding science and higher education, and now what I wanted to highlight about the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, which we haven't had since 2018. So here's a couple of times I've asked on the Committee on Science and it's addressed to the Ministry a question here, and I haven't even gotten a line here, so what about the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Where, why we haven't had it since 2018, and so many problems in ethics in science and higher education. Here, let's remember some agency activities. One is about recrediting a famous already famous Osijek Faculty of Economics and its doctoral study of management, a doctoral study that has become known for its plagiarized doctorate, which the University of Osijek agreed to subsequently correct. I can't be surprised here, and I'll keep saying it. So, a doctorate who was defended four years ago, the University of Osijek agreed to make amends. About whether or not I asked for the thematic session of the Committee on Science, no proposal has been adopted, but tomorrow we will have a thematic session on whether it is at all universities. But here's the interesting part of the agency here in the whole case. I also present the details collected diligently by a journalist Dora Krshuul in, for Telegram. Therefore, the State Agency for Science and Higher Education, which was responsible for estimating the quality of its accreditation advice in 2017, carried out a quality assessment or recreditation of the doctoral management study, found a number of shortcomings. The council has given a two-year deadline for the lack of ID. In January 2020, the Faculty of Economics of Osijek reported to the Agency with evidence of compliance with the recommendations and, on this trail, the agency recommended, with the recommendation of the accreditation advice to the then Minister Blaženko Divjak, therefore, that it issue a certificate of compliance with the conditions of a problematic doctoral study. But then State Secretary Branko Ramljak did not immediately agree to issue the requested confirmation but asked the agency for an explanation. The publicly available documents show that she has been asked to explain to her that in 2 years she was able to remove all the complex deficiencies identified during the re-accreditation of 2017. The Secretary of State is due to have an explanation signed by Sonja Villa, President of the Accreditation Council. It should be noted that Sonja Vila is also a vice-president of the University of Osijek, so she is a vice-president of the University of Osijek for re-accreditation of the Osijek doctoral study and defends, then defends their reasons, theirs, theirs, all the shortcomings that they allegedly corrected. She explains to the secretary how the Faculty of Economics provided exhaustive evidence and evidence of everything done. So, at the head of the credentials advice of the key body, which gives a final recommendation to the Secretary of Green Light for the further work of a study or college, after the quality assessment, Sonja Villa is sitting in the principal of the University of Osijek. In the case of an assessment of the quality of the Osijek doctoral study, she therefore strongly argued to the ministry why the study met all criteria after quality assessment and why it should be given confirmation that it continues to work. In addition to her, Ivan Miloža is sitting in this important body today as a graduate of the Faculty of Osijek for Dental Medicine and Health. In other words, in the accreditation advice, the key body assesses the quality of Croatian higher schools are people who are in management positions at universities and universities. Even the ministry of Fuchs said that the composition of the accreditation council must be outside the influence of the bodies managing universities, universities and that its members should not be rectors, or prophesies, or deans, or proceded. They add that no member of the accreditation council should be more than 2 mandates in this council, and here is Mrs Sanja Villa, who has been here since 2009, either as a member or as its president. Now, the Agency's administrative board, on a proposal from the Director, appoints members of the accreditation council that sits here this hour, and so it's a shame to have members of this board confirm that we don't have a chance to ask what their views on this issue are. So, as members of the board of directors, will they support the practice of naming people at the top of universities, universities and higher schools in the accreditation council, do they view such situations as a potential conflict of interest? As we heard only the Ministry and Minister Fuchs expressed their opinion even at the very sittings of the Committee on Science and last time we heard from the secretary that it was a bad practice because it comes to the situation that in the process of accreditation and accreditation they actually evaluate themselves. Recently here are the affairs in itself, in the agency itself, that the lady, therefore the director of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, Jasmina Havranek, without the knowledge of the management board of directors of the Agency, has also found an additional engagement which has actually brought into the sphere of serious conflict of interest as the key expert of a private company took part in the competition for the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences in Osijek project, so here we are again back in Osijek, and its participation has brought about a major breakthrough thanks to which the company with the most expensive offer won the competition. The lady resigned in November at V.D. Director of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. So if we're talking about candidates here, we'd like something about these candidates, so we're not told that we don't have what right to discuss them, but it is, but the independent bodies have named them, there isn't, there's no place to discuss them, but here I'd like to hear what they think about these topics and how they're going to act in the board so they can know and how we're going to vote on their appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91857	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91858	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's to us today, su, is a proposal for two decisions. The first decision to resolve part of the members of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the second proposal is a decision to appoint a part, namely two members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. I will only remind myself that, in accordance with the provisions of the Statutes of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the administrative board of this agency is, above all, a body managed by the Agency for Science and Higher Education and Rights and the responsibility of the members of the Governing Council and the Governing Council as a whole has been established primarily by the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, as well as by the Law on Institutions and, of course, by the statute of the Agency resulting from the above law and other general acts of the Agency. I will remind you that the board of directors has a total of 8 members plus a president and that both presidents and members of the board of directors are appointed for a period of 4g. where, therefore, they are appointed by the HS and, on a proposal from the competent authorities, by which I will separate clearly which bodies are competent and how many members are elected. First, the president and two members of the assembly are elected on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so one member of the assembly is elected on a proposal from the Rectorial Assembly and one member on a proposal from the National Council for Higher Education and one member on a proposal from the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools and one member on a proposal from the National Council for Science and at the end of one member on a proposal from the Croatian Student Assembly. The procedure goes in a way that the agency collects proposals from competent authorities that I have just listed and then, through the Government of the Republic of Croatia, directs them to the appointment of HS. In addition to all this, the Agency and the Administrative Council still elects one member of the Board of Directors from the ranks of its employees in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. What's part of the management section of the agency? First of all, it makes all its decisions at the sessions, and by the majority of the votes of all the members of the board, so that is 5 votes makes up the half majority. I would like to remind you that the Administrative Council is rightly discussing and deciding when at least 5 members of the Council are present at the meeting, and the meetings of the Governing Council are held according to the needs, and at least three times a year, making it compulsory to consider the financial plan or annual accounting of the Agency and in cases where it is proposed either by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the Minister of Science and Education or I am the Director of the Agency. What is more important is the work of the Management Board of the Agency, first of all, it brings the Statute to the proposal of the Director, with the agreement of the Director, which is the Ministry of Science and Education, appoints and resolves the Director, appoints and resolves the Deputy Directors of the Agency on the proposal of the Director, adopts the Internal Order which governs the internal organisation of the Agency and, on the proposal of the Director, also brings the annual work programme of the Agency which shall be detailedly arranged for the activities and tasks of the Agency for each calendar year, monitors the implementation of the annual work programme, adopts the annual budget of the Agency on the proposal of the Director and accepts the final financial report, as well as determines the type of services provided by the Agency with compensation and the level of compensation for the proposed services, adopts, at the end of the annual report on the work of the Agency submitted to the Director, and subsequently forwarding it to the Founder and certainly administrative council, in accordance with the Statute. We have already heard the opening statement of the proposing representatives that the two members of the board of directors are Prof. Dr. Vlatko Cvrtila is no longer a member of the council, Mr Nediljko Jerkovic of the ranks, of the student assembly, is also no longer a member, or has no student status, and therefore it is necessary to carry out the procedure for their resolution of appointed members, the appointment of new members and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 January of this year we have a proposal for appointment, for the resolution of these two people and the appointment of two new members, or two members of the Governing Council, on the proposal of the competent authorities. We have already reiterated and stressed that these two competent authorities are in this case because of these two members of the board of directors, whom, who are no longer members, therefore play a role in their selection of new members, has a council of universities and higher schools and the Croatian Student Assembly, who have proposed to us the Doctor. Damir Juda, at the proposal of the council of higher education and higher schools and Mr Neven Pintaric, from the ranks of students on the proposal of the Croatian Student Assembly. The HDZ advocates' club will therefore support both the proposals and the motion to resolve and propose the appointment of new members. In particular, Dr. Damir South and Mr Neven Pintaric for members of the Board of Directors of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. What I need to say after these discussions on behalf of clubs and after all these, all of what has been said so far, we should first and foremost respect the decisions made by the competent authorities that have been laid down by law to make proposals for members of the board of directors for both the Agency for Science and Higher Education and some other institutions. And I believe that indeed, and I believe, and certainly, my colleagues and colleagues in the HDZ Club share that opinion that we should not, in such cases, go so far as to enter into the jurisdiction of individual bodies, go so far as to degrade both the competent authorities and people who are proposed especially when it comes to the council of higher education and higher schools as one body founded in 2003, which today counts 34 members, 34 high schools and universities in the private and public sector. And what I find particularly important here to stress besides the problem of investing in the competence of certain bodies I do not feel that we have the right to degrade private higher schools in relation to public nor prefer anyone, to put in the first place because this is the way we show at least the lack of understanding of the system and the lack of awareness of the fact that the system of higher education and the system of science will make the only quality better, not the background from which high schools come. I mean the private sector or the public sector. If we do not regain consciousness and do not realize that the quality of higher education schools, which is among other things the work of the Science and Higher Education Agency, should be put first, so far we show a lack of understanding of the importance and functioning of all our higher schools. Not only high schools, high schools, but also universities and all study programs whether it's professional or university studies of any level, undergraduate, graduate or postgraduate. That's what we need to talk about and what we need to raise awareness of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91859	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91860	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, as the HDZ colleague has just said, should not therefore enter into any independence, independence, autonomy of the council of universities, that they may agree in some way, but, indeed, as my colleagues before me, I do not see at all the point of neither voting nor voting, nor at the Assembly Committee on Education and Science, nor at then plenary sessions, nor that we vote tomorrow in the assembly. What should certainly be done is to amend both legislative and legislative legislation in that sense or that the parliamentary committee may have the influence to, for example, propose that, on the parliamentary board, these candidates come to be presented or simply not to send it to the Croatian Parliament at all to vote and debate at all. Also, I have to say that some of my comments on the agency's work in the last few years as a person coming from the system of science and higher education I have to say that the comments on the work of the agency are not so negative. So, in fact, the agency, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, is engaged in external quality assurance in science and higher education, there has been a number of high-school recredit procedures, university postgraduate and doctoral studies that should be said not to actually blame for this case which took place at the University of Osijek alone the work of the Agency but accreditation advice. I am really sorry to think that the Agency for Science and Higher Education is working with fair and industrious people, but these bodies in the subsystem as an accreditation council, as a national council for science and higher education, which are appointed by the moss and politically, are in fact to say so by sub-institutions within agencies that deprive the reputation and honor of people who work in the very Agency for Science and Higher Education. It should also be said that the Agency for Science and Higher Education and has received a positive opinion on its own report on the European Commission itself, but it is worrying that the work of the Agency is in fact a positive assessment, and when the Science Agency itself has proposed a new Law on quality assurance in higher education that this legislative proposal has not passed. Here is the State Secretary from the Ministry of Science who will probably confirm that 25.2. goes a whole new package of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and then also ensure high quality and watch where it goes first, to counseling at the rectory assembly. Again, the body in the subsystem that last time stopped the bill, and why did they stop it? I speak from the perspective of a person who also works at the University of Pula, but we do not object to positive changes in the system of science and higher education. And I bet, when I say so, that this new legal package that we can even say in part might also reduce university autonomy, but it will set a higher level of control, it will go in the right direction, that it will just be hitched and stopped by those same bodies so that we can say the subtits that work within the Science Agency itself. I can't help but look back at that, let's say here's a Pulski study of medicine. I've already talked several times about the status of the Pulski Study of Medicine itself, and how we can actually say that system doesn't work again. In fact, the Pulski Study of Medicine received a positive opinion and compliance with the high-school network adopted in 2011. Just in HS, he received two positive reviews of international foreign experts, however, when he went to the hearing and to give consent to the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for two and a half years, no consensus comes. Therefore, the Pulski Study of Medicine according to them does not comply with the legislation, although the Agency for Science and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education said that the programme is fully in line with its legal and sublegal regulations. Moreover, I must say that we were all quite pleasantly surprised at the previous session of the Assembly Committee on Education when Mr. Šushak himself said that we should not worry, that it is nothing strange, because from these bodies except that they do not publish the records on their pages we have no idea what these bodies in the system are doing, that neither do they respond to memos, rushes and that we simply do not have to worry about that, for example, that we have been waiting for a month and a half, two months to be seen as the Parliamentary Education Committee of the National Council for Science. Here's how this system works right now. But to go back to what actually happened in the public eye, which is also re-accreditation of doctoral studies. So I'll say that the same year that the Doctoral Study of Management in Osijek was re-credited to our doctoral studies in Pula. You know what the score was? I studied both reports carefully, from our three doctoral studies in Pula we had to shut down or we didn't have to, but we ourselves saw that the recommendations given by the Science Agency not only accreditation advice. It is important to say that in fact the accreditation advice neither comes into field control, nor re-accreditation of doctoral studies, comes with a wave of people from the agency who can say professionally employed there, and the accreditation advice actually at the political level then makes a decision whether something will be in accreditation or not, whether it will get a positive assessment, a letter of expectations or not. And I have to say, we've shut down two of the three doctoral studies. If you compare our report from Pula for both doctoral studies that we have shut down and if you compare the report for the Doctoral Study in Osijek, there are indeed differences in nuances. And I've also studied some other recredit reports, and there's everything there. I really don't understand what the criteria were, actually, the criteria for quality assessment in re-accreditation exist, but it's obvious that in our country there are no such mechanisms in the system of science and higher education. It is also important to highlight when we talk about this controversial one example, and it is obvious that they will surface from the University of Osijek, that only one doctorate has ever been taken away in Croatia. That was 2002. In the University of Rijeka, although the attempt to plagiarize was very much, and so was the same doctorate that was taken away, interestingly, it was actually autoplagiarism when the doctorate transferred his master's work to most of the 80% in the doctoral work itself. Anything else, and if universities like Rijeka tried to take away someone's doctorate multiple times, everything would end up in courts and you know how it was, or goes, gone into obsolescence or this just didn't explain enough of the relevant facts to take away someone's doctorate. I hope that this new Quality Insurance Act will go in the direction of improving the entire system, and so will this section on the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of the Science Agency. I hope we don't get finished or finished or semi-certain materials again here in the assembly benches, and then we'll talk about what the HDZ colleagues said, but there's still material in front of you, so it'd be nice not to get involved, but if you all raise your hand for it. First of all, we need to talk about the problems that continue to exist in this system, as I have stated it is a complete non-coordination of these bodies from the National Council for the Development of Human Resources which is not even meeting, from the Committee on Ethics which she mentioned before her colleague Puljak who is not even meeting, from the National Council for Science which is actually politically acting and absolutely not keeping the rules of the profession from that the Ministry of Science and Education unfortunately speaking unfortunately because I am truly sorry, there is no control over all these bodies and I hope that the new package of laws will go in this direction to put all together on much, much more stable legs than it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91861	Following individual debates, Dalia Oreskovic, the first respected representative, is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91862	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, after all that Katarina Peović and Marijana Puljak and even her colleague Radolovic presented in the previous discussions, we can only conclude that with the candidates proposed, a good part of the opposition scene simply cannot agree. But that's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that this appointment, that is, this proposal, suggests that we are not in the system of things in the right order and the opposite of what counterpart Radolovic said, I do not believe that the new package of laws will go in the right direction. There is already a whole series of indications that all of this clientelistic corrupt network will be supported, which has led to science in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately generally looking down and that the general impression that the public is gaining because of falsified doctorates, because of people branding in this system of science, and that there is no such thing as science, will simply continue to be maintained as it is now. What is needed is a complete start on new foundations, on different ideas to come up with a law on quality assurance in science and higher education. In addition, it is necessary to touch what no one has dared touch so far, which is the statute of the agency and the internal acts under which the agency operates. Fellow Radolovic touched on the topics of these sub-institutions within the system itself, accreditation advice and other numerous bodies. Somehow, we forgot who names those bodies and who controls those bodies. Obviously, politics has involved all of her fingers as she has gotten involved and has decided dominantly that there is one Mr. Damir South who proposes as a candidate at all. As long as that's how we with science won't get much further than where we are now on this, these few proposals of unquality and bad candidates can just say no thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91863	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91864	Here's a few more details despite HDZ trying to say we're not sticking to the subject. Of course, it would be better to spin the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education Article 8 which we have heard here from colleague Bedeković five times than to warn about the political ties of those running here to the Administrative Council of the Science and Higher Education Agency. The fact that we're not competent is the highlight of cynicism and that we're told that we're not competent is really, and even an adhesion that talks a lot more about what we're doing here and how we treat what we're doing here. We are not colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ parent board for the selection of scientific calling so that we are not competent to talk about the Damir South, but we are the political body that has the task here to say what the political links between Damir South that you propose to the Administrative Council of the Education and Science Agency with the current political actors. And it certainly has something to do with it and it should be the task of all MPs and MPs here. And I'm going to mention some more names to you, as much as you think it's redundancy or that I'm not sticking to the subject. In this triumph means Damir Jug, Bozo Skko is another one, and this is Zdeslav Milas, otherwise the son of Ivan Milas, the first and only who was known as the first and only guardian of the national seal in Croatia at the time of Franjo Tuđman, which is therefore, who is indeed networking all media and publishing houses in RU networking their own it is more or less called the mosaic link that we are drawing here. And the mosaic relationship is very important if we consider what repercussions we face after such people get power and after such people get to the place we get. And let's not belittle the Education and Science Agency because we've got a few legal proposals here where we've really passed lawlessness, so we passed such a law, you've voted by colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, that a university doesn't have to pass accreditation. It's absolutely amazing, so it's absolutely illegal. So one, one university doesn't have to go through accreditation, but we still have better mechanisms to ensure the quality of higher education and science, which is that in such an important body as the agency puts people who will recredit and accredit universities. So how will they recredit and accredit those who only deal with true mosaic relationships and who only look at how to humanize. It is amazing to me that the secretary of state sees absolutely nothing controversial about the fact that for 2 years in the meaning of the governing council of that agency sitting, there are people sitting, but there is not a single representative of the meaning of high schools and higher schools when under the law it means Article 8. it says that there should be a representative of higher schools, so universities and higher schools. It's been two years since it's been that representative, and you don't care. It's just like that, they didn't make you any suggestions. It's incredibly real to me. You also told me colleagues and colleagues from HDZ that it's rude what I'm saying about God's Scotch. Here in this assembly, the facts are often considered rude, and there the chairman agreed that it was rude, but I'm just the guidance of the facts. The man is a proven plagiarist twice and it's a mentor means the man we get here as a proposal means the administrative board of agencies and a business partner. Of course, the secretary of state is also not too upset because he himself has granted millions of kuna overnight to the student centre at the time of the rehabilitation when Pavo Barisic, on the day that Pavo Barisic, the minister was removed. Of course you object that this is not about the subject because here is Milas, or this family, has had something to do with the student center. So we have a few things here. The first thing is, we've had two years. Fully illegal, illegal composition of the agency. The second thing is to propose people who can't get into that agency for nothing, but they'll still be voted for by the HDZ majority, and then we'll ask ourselves how that agency doesn't do its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91865	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Andro Krstulović Opera.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91866	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Peovic continues in spite of the previous warning where, without any basis outside the topic, he deals with third parties and now, after the relief of God Skoka, a respected professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences, proclaiming him a plagiarist, she also addressed our colleague, Marija Kapulico and Mr. Milas, who had nothing to do with these topics. Reports that directly damage the reputation of these people I repeat are not the subject of today's debate 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91867	I agree. Vesna Bedeković, a respected representative, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91868	Thank you very much. I also think he's hurt his ankle. 238, which my colleague confessed at some point, and I know that what I'm saying isn't about the subject. Thank you very much for noticing that. So, Mr. Vice President, I ask you to remind your esteemed colleague, and she also dealt with people who are not really here on a subject like Mr. Skopka and Mr. Kapulice, and finally Mr. Mamić's secretary of state. That's what I think he deserves a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91869	Unfortunately, many speak outside the Rules of Procedure and insult. It has become a common practice in this assembly. Katarina Peovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. ... Yes, because you insulted me. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91870	Yes, otherwise the warnings are not received by the chairman when he is offended, but because he is not being held in breach of the Rules of Procedure and that is why almost everyone gets a warning after he has broken the Rules of Procedure, but good. Now we're going to try and see if the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are getting those who say what you may not like. So the 238th demeaning of the MP means both colleagues Opari and colleagues Bedekovic. I didn't say I didn't stick to the subject, ma'am. Bedekovic than I said you didn't like the subject. and that our mission is to act politically here [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91871	Sanja Radolović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91872	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here I call tomorrow the president of Mr. Jandrokovic's assembly when he returns to work to give you a warning because this is the third warning for what we are here, which as a new representative, I know about every time we get a two-second warning, you, while I've been here for the last hour, haven't given three warnings to your colleagues from HDZ. What an impartial running of HS, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91873	Here's a warning for you because you haven't called on any of the Rules of Procedure, and they were right, I can't give people a warning when they speak correctly. The lady insulted everyone and everyone and spoke out of the agenda, and you have the right to comment. Sanja Radolovic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91874	... Proposal for a Law on Foundation for Science. [[Last-on speaker]] Well, the biggest, biggest point of reluctance was what the Ministry of Science is now asking to put under them, so I'm interested in how you comment on the situation so on the one hand the University of Defence and the safety of the sea ić under the supervision of the MORH, and now this is what they say so the Science Foundation Act is going to look at it now we're going to put it under the Ministry because we have to have control over everything, obviously, and not at the University of Defence and Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91875	Let me just say, tomorrow we'll remind Goran, Gordan Jandrokovic that there is no, there's no reason for him to give us any warning because we didn't insult anyone else in the Rules of Procedure. All right. So a series of laws that we have here and aren't just about science go towards a centralization where the ministry gets great powers, and not the professional public, and that's what happened, and in the case of the Ministry of Defence, it happened, and if you remember with the Social Care Act where we are, so even though there are already very high-quality institutions as a college means that education of workers and workers means in social care suddenly one, one agency, one agency, one academy, excuse this shape and again corresponds to the ministry. So in all these cases as well as the Science Foundation is trying to centralize and put everything in the hands of ministers who will then have a discretionary right to decide what and how, and that science is completely put aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91876	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91877	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Peović, I wanted to ask you, if we know that for the University of Osijek, or for the Doctoral Study that we've talked about a lot, the accreditation has done or proposed and stood up for it. Sonja Villa, by the way, Vice-President of the University of Osijek, who is also in the accreditation council, and if we know that even then, even State Secretary Branka Ramljak refused to actually accept the argument that she was in that doctoral study, that all the shortcomings that existed and sought deeper evidence were removed. How can we believe that this appointment will change anything at the level of the Science and Higher Education Agency when we know that even then, so these members have not responded to that? which was obvious. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91878	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91879	We can't expect him to react it's quite safe, and you have a situation meaning at the University of Osijek there's usually one meme who ended up there at that university. I think you're also mentioned on that meme, so there's a series, meaning the causals we can perform here. But what's important, if you have in the board of the Science Agency people who teach to, less now, it's important that they're private universities and universities, but the fact is that there's a transit point on the exams of 90%. So that quality they would have to provide, they don't provide it themselves at their universities and universities. If something provides quality, it's a real relationship, so according to the exams and where, it means it doesn't pay 30 000 kuna, so the team is actually buying a diploma. It's actually buying a degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91880	There's a final debate coming up. The first is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91881	I'll be very brief. What's the problem with these appointments has already been pointed out before, which is that it is purely politically motivated by two motivations. It's one thing of course to imprison someone of your own, and another motive is to keep control. Keep control of what? So, the Agency for Science and Higher Education is important for the preservation of certain gains and Lenas established by HDZ at universities throughout Croatia. One Lena is Zagreb University, we know everything about it and we know what's going on there. And things went so far, that the more rector of that university that was compromised at all levels that of course your player there, who was compromised at all levels he didn't get away with, he took care of the people no longer limbi or suggest that when he went to retirement seven years after he was supposed to retire that he was paid forever by a phone bill of 300 kuna and that he could fly to the university premises in Dubrovnik or I don't know where Pula was. So this one shamelessness, this one here's a real dive at the bottom of a man who's got a big salary all his life, to go compromise in a way that fights to make 300 kunas pay his phone for life. Well, I mean, here's what I'm gonna say. Your next acquisition at the Science and Higher Education Agency is Mr. Damir Jugo. Mr. Damir Jugo, of course, has something to do with HDZ. Except he was a consultant, so-called pro bono advisor to your government in that adventure called Tim Oreshkovic, specifically the Karamark government. The man is also a member of society, a company called the Millennium Promotion. Millennium promotion and ties to HDZ are also well known. There's an affair I think was enough, and I'm going to tell another picanteria of course on the Supervisory Board of that same Millennium promotion where Mr. South is a member of yours as you said the esteemed academic, i.e. Member of the academic community of the Faculty of Political Sciences Mr. Bozo Skoko. It's the same by accident. It's all accidentally so arranged. So, it is clear that the appointments are politically motivated, that they are motivated to arrest someone in a particular place for services they have provided you and that, of course, they are still in control and that it is particularly important for you to control that it would not happen by some miracle that the question of doctoral study that is obviously really made for the HDZ chamber that has more doctorate than one university in Zagreb, where all in similar directions are doctored by respected and highly positioned people from HDZ in ways that we have seen in the case of Vice Mihanović, although it is not the only case that should not only be said. They doctorate a way that literally copy falls google translates some sentences that of course don't make any sense and then invents a new procedure that doesn't exist anywhere, in any scientific system. The doctorate-adjustment procedure, so the doctorate-correction procedure, you were able to amend it. Without these appointments, of course, they couldn't, and that's why these appointments matter to you, and as much as before the public, they say that universities are independent and that they're autonomous, we all know that they're not, but that your aunts are like all other areas of life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91882	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91883	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's how much we care about science and high education of Parliamentarians can count on the fingers of one or one and a half hands. I didn't expect this debate to go this way. Why? Because here we have a proposal for a solution, i.e. a proposal for a designation decision. So, the Parliament neither proposes these people, nor can it in the institutions from which these people come exert any influence. We can make a decision here on the basis of their qualifications whether or not we accept this proposal. But instead of us saying okay. people this situation in science is not good let's start a thematic session, let's discuss the anomalies that are currently present in society, in education. It's quite another time, but here we have one proposal to appoint and resolve, and then we mention people who aren't here we call them any names and people can't defend themselves. If I knew someone had committed a certain offence, I would have gone to Djordzic's or somewhere and reported it, and not here he was wasting himself with all sorts of sentences accusing people because he published a portal or someone said it on the street somewhere. It's really not correct and it's not appropriate. I appeal to all of us that if we are willing to participate in the thematic session, we will make certain decisions that will improve our educational structure from kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools to higher education. It's supposed to be the right way, not getting into the metrics of the names of those people we didn't name, and we couldn't affect it. So I support what is proposed and the HDZ club will support this regardless of what you think about it, and in such a way about the people who are here I don't want to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91884	Following is the final debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91885	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm glad you said you'd vote for it and we shouldn't argue. I'm asking you what, for example, that you don't have 76 hands and let's say here tomorrow we don't vote it out and return it to the council of the university as we are currently legally regulated. We follow that, for example, if he came back to the Croatian Parliament and on the Committee of Parliament so as not to vote it, they would be balled all the time. Do you think that's normal? Of course it's not normal. I'm glad you have a head. Tomorrow morning we have a thematic session that is not the way it should be, so it is a thematic session about recredit and the status of all doctoral studies in Croatia. I hope that there will be more detailed information about what really bothers us the most in this whole work of the Science Agency, i.e. the accreditation advice itself, and that we will determine the actual state of affairs in fact whether or not there has been a favor or not when issuing a report on the re-creditation itself and the letters actually expected where the University of Osijek, i.e. the Faculty of Economics and the Doctoral Study of Management could unlike many other universities that had an equal report on the evaluation of doctoral studies. I said before, so even in a discussion at the University of Pula, two doctoral studies had to be shut down. If you look at the reports that are publicly available on the Science Agency page, they are quite similar to the report received by the doctoral study of management of the Faculty of Economics in Osijek. However, this debate has gone in some other direction where actually a lot, a lot of things are still to be solved within the work of the Science Agency and within the entire system of science and higher education. We have mentioned this several times, and it is primarily necessary to pass a new law on quality assurance in the system of science, higher education. I will repeat once again the previous draft of the law that came from the professional people within the agency itself was not accepted initially by the Rector's Assembly, and I believe that, unfortunately, so will this time when the new legislative package comes to the e-consultation and to the vote. So I really don't see any bright future in all this. You will also remember we had a great debate in the public over the amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I would like to remind you that the Science Agency is also working on the very application of HKO and also on a major problem that we haven't solved yet, which is the nostration of foreign higher education classifications. And these two problems, for example, although we in the Croatian Parliament have brought amendments to the HKO Act where I must say the SDP Club has written a legislative proposal. They then removed it and put it at the bottom of the agenda and copied it from us literally from "a" to "z" the same legal proposal. We're glad you've actually complimented us. However, the system should not function that way. Although we have adopted amendments to the HKO Act, people who continue to address me daily have completed professional studies, which also address the Science Agency and all bodies in the system including the Ministry of the University are then self-determining the conditions. They are the whole, attending all the different years as if these people were being punished for completing professional studies, and not only the different exams are still not as evaluated as they should be. It is also related to the nosetriification of foreign higher education qualifications. We have a medical deficit, medical staff. However, I am addressed by people such as nurses, technicians, doctors from third countries who cannot nostrate their diplomas within the Agency for Science and Higher Education that runs the whole process. I think that at least it's embarrassing, worrying about all of us together, and that these are actually problems that should come into the assembly benches, and not this that we can say a rather embarrassing appointment that we actually have as HS and the Resolute Assembly Committee on Education and Science can't debate much, I guess we're just expected to raise our hand for or against.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91886	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club of HSS and RF-respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91887	Let's just once again explain what the problem is. So we have one candidate that you can really do tomorrow here, a colleague and colleagues from HDZ, you can show that you have awareness that the candidates who come here have to be scientifically independent, that they have to be focused on maintaining the quality of science and higher education and to show that this is what you have, and that the man who's proposed is not good because sometimes it can be wrong, so it can be wrong, it can also admit your mistake, unfortunately I'm afraid it won't happen. Why was God's jump mentioned here? Not to discredit someone, but because it's the owner of the Millennium Promotion, which is a key fact if you want to understand why Damir Jugo is not a good candidate for the Agency's administrative council. So if we have a candidate who is at the same time a dean is in line, but that dean is his own, co-owner of one agency means a pirate agency that was proven to be in conflict of interest when she signed a contract with Djur Đakovic, and there was a legal decree that prevented it because at that moment there was a ban on signing contract agencies with state firms. The second thing, if we know that Millenium Promotion has made a huge contract means with the Ministry of Tourism, and the Ministry of Tourism gives it 3.5 million kuna, then we can't talk about an independent candidate who will really advocate scientific quality and scientific excellence. So what's important here is the University of Osijek, it wasn't mentioned by accident, so that's the same thing you can say is not the subject, so we're choosing a man who's going to be a member of the Board of Science. But it is the kind of people that have to be independent and quality to put an end to something that is evident in science that is problematic. Here I am also going to say how much in public it means to people laughing at the University of Osijek, and I am sure there are excellent staff and excellent professors there, I know some and it's really not right because of the University of Osijek to make fun of them, but here's a meme that's spreading the internet has meaning several people who got a doctorate or, or a degree in that picture, there is Ante Bačić, your colleague, there is Ante Sanader, our colleague, there is the director of the Port Authority of Split, the head of the tax administration in Split, the head of the Split-Dalmatia County pharmacy and from my end, my upper list, the head of Lečevica municipality. So everyone got there all of a sudden in Osijek if it was a degree or a doctorate. What you said to your colleague Simicevic, to go to Djordzic's office and report if we think something is wrong with the law, so what I was saying about plagiarities is a public matter, it's even Bozo Skko wrote about it, so he literally prescribed Dezulovic, I think what we're going to talk about in Djordzic. And that Millenium production has these contracts, so that's a public matter, so we can't check anything in Djordzic, that's all the facts. I, I'm sorry that you find yourself offended, offended when you get the facts, but the contracts with, is there something wrong, were there maybe no contracts with Djur Djakovic? Is maybe there was no contract with the Ministry of Tourism, is any of it, you didn't deny anything, so it's still true and we wouldn't say it wasn't true. [[Agreement: Please don't throw it out of the bench, come in]] Did you deny that Bozo Skoko prescribed Wikipedia or Dejulovic, do you think that's not true? That's, that's the thing that's on the Internet, so it's the things that a man has reflected himself and said I wrote a sentence from Djulovic etc., I mean it, it's nothing to question at all in Djordzic's, but it's unfortunate that you consider yourself endangered as representatives because of that instead of being responsible and that tomorrow you really don't, that you really don't vote for that candidate tomorrow. It would be the right thing, so it would be let's have certainly in HDZ candidates who are quality scientists, who can certainly preserve that quality of science, but this man who's already been issued in some way a warning that he's been in conflict of interest and, apparently, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91888	Okay. We have a series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91889	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, when a representative violates the Rules of Procedure, he should be warned. I've pointed out three times that to the lady of honor. MP Peović violates the Rules of Procedure. 238, but also per article. 232. Art. The 232th determines that a representative should stick to the subject. We've been listening again to lunches at the expense of individuals who are not being discussed today, and you, Mr. Chairman, have not given the necessary and necessary warning to the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91890	You're right, but it's a common practice in HS not to talk about the subject. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91891	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I again feel that the officer has been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, first of all because of the fact that a lot, a lot of debate and everything has been debated, and less about the topic that is under discussion today, that is the first. Secondly, I think it's really about ugly and low lunches at the expense of some people who are not in this assembly today except for the secretary of state that we were also talking about today. And I think that's and such a tone and such a debate is not worthy of one parliamentary representative. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91892	Yeah, that's right. You're right, but it's a common practice. Here's your distinguished representative, Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91893	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter Here comes my colleague Bedekovic a lot It's not a replica. [[Please don't rephrase. Come on, say it.]] Here is an insult to our common sense by saying that we have insulted the man you have proposed because we have proven his connection with HDZ and with companies that work for HDZ and state-owned companies. ... So, ma'am, Mr. Southo owns the Millennium... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91894	Time. Let's move on. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91895	Thank you, Chairman. HDZ representatives injured Article 238 because during the entire exhibition, Katarina Peovic was disrupting the speaker in other ways as well. And if today during this debate anyone was holding the topic then it was Katarina Peovic entering the metrics. And Mrs. Bedekovic, if we're going to talk about who hasn't talked about it, then that's not what HDZ was doing on the previous agenda point. Just look at the replicas of Majda Buric to Mr. Šimičević. Well it will enter the annals of coming out of the topic, and entering space... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91896	Time. The next replica, and the pardoned violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91897	238. Disdaining MPs and MPs, but I'd like another rule to be entered into the Rules of Procedure, so here's a suggestion not to speak of anyone who isn't present. So, we here have a proposal from Damir South, which is proposed to us here as a candidate for the board of directors of the Agency, but it must not be spoken of negatively because he is not present here. Well, here's what your parents said! [[No one in this House has ever talked about people who aren't here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-10-0.u91898	It was never in the Parliament. I don't remember. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Secretary of State.
