ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u99959	Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2020. The applicant is the government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2020 is hereby adopted. Before the vote, a colleague named Kekin called, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u99960	Thank you. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club for 10 minutes to once again warn of the continued neglect of the needs of our islands and their inhabitants, but also of the continued exploitation of the island's resources for private and particular interests. On the one hand, our islanders and islanders do not have adequate health care, do not have an emergency helicopter medical service that has been promising them for years, our islanders have to pay for accommodation in Zagreb, Split and Dubrovnik for weeks to be able to give birth in safe and adequate conditions, do not have an adequate connection with land and other islands, the island children are cut off from school lines, giving them concrete mixers and multimillion investments that they absolutely do not need and are rebelling against. So these are projects they don't need, but they go to harm both islanders and islanders living there. We talked about the case of Korčula, we talked about the example of Ilovik, we will talk about it further because it is indeed time to start treating islanders and islanders as equal citizens of this country. And on the trail of the most quoted, most quoted poet in this assembly and his song of Zimmerfrai that you have quoted today, it is indeed time to stop the policy of exploitation without thought and without strategy for both islands and for our entire coastal belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u99961	Please. We will now vote, therefore, in conclusion: The report on the effects of the implementation of the Treaty on Islands in 2020 is accepted, let us vote. 119 MPs and MPs voted, 88 for, 18 abstentions and 13 against, so we concluded that it was proposed by the parent committee. Representative Marija Selak Rasdic suggested HS to draw the following conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to fulfil the legal obligation under Article without delay. The 21st century 3. The island law, and bring the state programme to the settlement and coordination of catasters and land books on islands, please vote. 116 MPs and MPs voted, 40 for, 76 against, so the conclusion did not get the required number of votes. Let's go to point two, Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, second reading, P.Z. 181. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go in turn, 1st Amendment, Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two, same club reps. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 of the same club of MPs, these are all, by the way, all amendments to the SDP Club of Representatives, so I won't repeat again, this is Amendment 3. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 5, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment six, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 7 has been withdrawn. Amendment 8. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number nine, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 10, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 12th Amendment has been withdrawn. We must vote on the 13th amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. We must vote on the 14th amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 15, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 16th Amendment has been withdrawn. We must vote on the 17th amendment. It has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 91 for, 34 abstentions, and a law on the sustainable use of pesticides was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u100911	I thank President-in-Office of the Parliament, asking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club in order to give the HDZ colleagues one more chance to think about their support for such a pale and inefficient whistle-maker law. It is clear to us at the Social Democrats Club as well as to colleagues from HDZ, but also to the entire Croatian public that whistles whistle most about HDZ crime. The situation has been unchanged since the very beginning of our country, from the brave example of Ankica Lepoj and the savings that are not the property of President Tudjman, to the apparition of the crime in state properties as well as Andriana Cvrtila, who has shown so much white-headed nepotism and infatuation that even the Kutin HDZ was too much. But many other brave whistlers who, over the years of their professional careers as well as their health and lives have subjected themselves and their families to the fight against injustice often lose their jobs isolated from society, economically exhausted or destroyed. Such a law as it was formed unfortunately will not protect anyone, will not prevent any resignation, and at least it will discourage any future president, prime minister or minister in his intention to transfer public good or public money to the obvious of all of us into pockets similar or deserved as we read every day, and even by a few weeks ago confirmed ministers. The fight against corruption starts with you not being corrupt yourself, and the strong laws that ruthlessly punish corruption, which protect and encourage whistles to step forward to let the perpetrators know that the risk of detection is great and the penalty is disproportionate to prey. Unfortunately, such a law as it is written is merely the lubrication of the eyes of the public without the right intention of protecting brave men.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u100912	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we'll get back to work, and then we'll get to the amendments. We therefore vote on those whom the Government does not accept. The first amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number two of the SDP Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number three MPs Dalia Oreshkovic. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four is the same representative. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Fifth Amendment to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments six and seven are the same, identical content. The government doesn't accept them, so we'll only vote once. The sixth Social Democrats' Club, the seventh SDP representative's club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of eight MPs, Dalia Oreshkovic. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The ninth amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number ten MPs Dalia Oreshkovic. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number eleven of MPs Katarina Peovic. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 12th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of the SDP Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number fourteen Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 15th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number sixteen MPs Dalia Oreshkovic. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 17th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 18th Amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted. Amendment No. 19. Green-left block representatives' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 20th Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 21st Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted. Amendment No. 22. Social Democrats' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 23rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 25. Social Democrats' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26 of MP Drazen Bošnjakovic was accepted. Amendment No. 27th Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 28 and 29 are identical content, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDP, but the government does not accept them, so we vote only once, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment No. 30. Social Democrats' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 31st Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 32nd Amendment, the same representative, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 33 and 34 are identical, again the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept them, we vote on both amendments, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. 35. Green-left block representatives' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 36. Social Democrats' club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th Amendment, MP Darko Klasic, the government does not accept it, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 38th Amendment, MP Katarina Peovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 39th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has been accepted, as well as the 40th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, so it is also accepted. 41. The Social Democrats Club... Can we move on? [[Applause]] 41. Social Democrats' club, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 42. Green-left block representatives' club, let's vote please. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 43rd Amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has been adopted, as well as the 44th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The 45th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 46. The Social Democrats' club has been withdrawn. 47. The Social Democrats Club must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 48th Amendment of the same club of MPs must be voted. He didn't get the votes he needed. 49. The Legislative Committee, the government does not accept, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 50th and 51st amendments of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDP are identical content and are not accepted by the government, we vote on both amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 52nd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club was accepted. 53. The Social Democrats Club must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 54. Green-left block representatives' club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 55th and 56th. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDP are identical content. The government doesn't accept them, let's vote on both amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. 57th Amendment Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 58th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 59th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the 60th Amendments of the SDP Representatives Club are identical content. The government doesn't accept them, we vote on both. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. 61st and 62nd Amendments to the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the SDP Representatives Club, identical content. The government doesn't accept it, so we're voting on both amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. 63rd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted. 64. We've got to vote on the Most Representatives' Club. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 65th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted. 66th and 67th are identical content of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. The government doesn't accept them, we vote on both. They didn't get the votes they needed. And last 68th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 78 for, 1 abstention and 46 against, and thus passed the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. The SDP representative club proposes a meeting to draw conclusions. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within 180 days to amend and supplement this law in order to provide a legal framework for the organisation of a psychosocial assistance system for applicants of irregularities. I am voting on this proposal to conclude the SDP Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. 119 MPs and MPs voted, 42 for, 77 against, so that the conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes. Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and food for animals and Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 257. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. That draft law and other observations and proposals shall be adopted to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 118 for, 7 abstentions, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102006	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the House of Homeland Attorneys' Club in order to once again warn of a fact which, unfortunately, is very common in this house. When we talk about the membership, that is, of the Law on COMMUNITY of Croatia, we pointed out as representatives of the Homeland Movement, both in the first and second readings of the fact that we have been trying to compose or round Croatian agricultural areas for decades. For this purpose since 2015 We have one law which is quite fine by law and since then, and this is the full seven years in the contest we know absolutely nothing has been done, one big and huge zero, and therefore I would like to stop and think about what exactly this law will be passed in the beginning, that agricultural areas will not be rounded up or possibly will be, but only in some parts of Croatia, of course, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and parts of Croatia where there are much larger agricultural areas that we can round, and this is also a big question of whether they will be able to implement, especially when we look at this law from the point of view that soon and legally and in any other way we will have to open up the possibility of citizens, not only the EU but also all countries that in Croatia are buying agricultural surfaces. Whether this law will help or help it is impossible to say, but what we want to point out once again in the first and second readings we said, so here and now just before the vote on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the law that we have passed and which will obviously be brought back here today both in 2015 and in 2022. In HS, we spend time doing nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102007	Second request for a break from colleague Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102008	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS. So what I'm kind of asking all my colleagues and colleagues to think about next, is whether we want to have a Law on Cooperation or really want to have a membership. If we're going to have the Law of Cooperation we're going to vote this law we're going to have it, if we want the membership to really be implemented then this law isn't it. I have to remind you of a movie when a monkey comes in that movie, lifts a rock and sees a snake and faints, all right for the first time. He wakes up unconscious, and the second time he raises that same stone, he sees the snake, and the second time he faints. This same assembly of parliaments has passed the Law on Reconstruction, and the basis of this law of renewal is gone, so we will again, I have no doubt that the ruling majority will not have enough hands to pass the Law of Compassion, the membership will not be for the simple reason that the law is not structured and complex in a way to be operational, that the foundation of it really does take place but again satisfy the form, not the content. Let us ask ourselves whether our role and assignments are to be satisfied with the form or beyond that form should be content. Behind this law, colleagues and colleagues, we discussed in the first reading there were six cards of remarks that we made not because we are evil, not because we are malicious, not because we are stingy or we are like this, but because we really wanted to make a move in this country, and that we have been able to combine because we have concluded that we really need to start with the membership. The government, of course, explained that these remarks would not be accepted, and the promoter also rejected amendments that were some minor improvements. So let's all ask ourselves together when we're going to vote for what we're voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102009	The apartment is approved. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club of 10 minutes to further clarify some of the things that we are, indeed, for the commissioning of agricultural areas, because of the greater efficiency of agricultural production we are, but not in that way, or before this law, provided the preconditions. It is a few more laws that would address property and cadastrian issues, which would actually regulate them because they are a prerequisite for the commission to be carried out at that time. We also hope that it will soon be found in the second reading of the Law on Agricultural Land and that we will finally begin to solve the problems of wild illegal construction, but not only the Law on Agricultural Land which has these indications that it will solve but hopefully soon also the Law on Forest Land, the Law on Nature Protection, etc. And finally, because it is also tied to agricultural land and its rounding I use the opportunity to once again warn about the problem of game damage and large agricultural areas that have grown up in the woods because of the irresponsible management of the same and I appeal here that we all find a model together how to preserve agricultural production. And as for the law itself, the same thing I said these days before yesterday in the debate, the IDS Representatives' Club will be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102011	We have another request, colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102012	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF club for 10 minutes to warn of the law we're about to vote on. So what's this all about when we're talking business? The commission shall be carried out in such a way that a participant in the land's comcommissioning is entered into a commercial cluster of new land of the same value or means, unless that is not possible, the value of the land to the participant of the land must be paid in, i.e. approximately the approximate value of the land he has entered into the massacre. Now, colleagues and colleagues, and when you expect someone to pay you around, you don't expect your value of land to pay you 90 to 120 percent of the real value of land, but you expect it to be somewhere around 100 percent of the value of land. But here we're going to give someone 90 and some 120 percent. In other words, this is another law that laws the law of lawlessness. Someone won't be able to be angry anymore because they only got 90% of the value of their land because it's the law, but it's just one of the laws that do exactly that – legalize lawlessness. That's why we've submitted several of these amendments to our club and colleague Lenart. So first of all, to warn that local self-government units and local sheriffs may not be the right address to determine who should get this or that particle. And we also wanted to warn that this law will not do anything, but as the French Revolution said a single article before it decapitated a famous chemist, France has no revolution, so we say that Croatia has no need for agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102013	Thank you very much. We have another request, Comrade Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102014	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club For a fair Croatia for 10 minutes to further emphasise that this law, as counterpart Taritash said, is on the trail and the Rehabilitation Act, so it's inconclusive. What Croatia needs is definitely facing the truth that there is a very large number of unsolved property and legal cases in this case, because the Croatian country, which even after the Second World War, had one situation in which the kidnapping at the time of privatisation occurred, has been one big kidnapping and at present, so we cannot implement certain laws for one simple reason why we are unable to determine the right holder of ownership. And as long as that's how we can pass countless laws, but what we finally and finally do when something and round up comes Russian capital and buys it for us. So we can't support a law like this and we won't support it until it's perfectly resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102015	All right. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then let's get to the amendments. There's 60 of them, too. First Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number three of the SDP Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment four Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number five of the HSS and RF Representatives Club. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number six of the SDP MPs club has been withdrawn. Amendment number seven of the same club representatives. We have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment eight of the same club representatives have been withdrawn. Amendment number nine MPs Dalia Oreshkovic must be voted. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number ten, Zeljko Lenart. We have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 11th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP has been withdrawn. The 12th Club of Representatives of the SDP. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 13th Club of Representatives of the SDP has been withdrawn. The 14th representative of Dalia Oreshkovic. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 15th SDP representative club has been withdrawn. Sixteenth Club of Representatives of the SDP. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 17th representative, Dalia Oreshkovic. We have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 18th Representative Zeljko Lenart. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 19th Legislative Committee has been adopted. We have to vote the 20th Club of Representatives of the SDP. He didn't get the votes he needed. Twenty-first SDP representative club. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Twenty-two other Club of Representatives of the SDP. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Twenty-third of the same club of MPs has been withdrawn. Twenty-fourth representative Dalia Oreshkovic. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 25. SDP counseling club, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 26. SDP counseling club, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 27th Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 28. SDP counseling club, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 29th and 30th are identical content, the government does not accept them, these are amendments by representatives Oreshkovic and Lenart, we vote on both amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. 31. SDP counseling club, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 32nd SDP Representatives' Club again, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 33rd Representative Zeljko Lenart, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 34. SDP representative's club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 35. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. The 36th Representative, Dalia Oreshkovic, must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th same representative, we have to vote again. He didn't get the votes he needed. 38. A SDP representative club please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 39th same club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 40th Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 41. SDP representative's club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 42nd Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 43. SDP representative's club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 44th MP Dalia Oreskovic, did not, the government did not give, did not accept. There's still no required number of votes. 45. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn, as has 46. A SDP representative club, too. Without my glasses, it seemed to have been accepted, so I.../Laughter/... 47. We must vote on the SDP's representative's club. He didn't get the votes he needed. 48. We must vote on the SDP's representative's club. He didn't get the votes he needed. 49th of the same club of MPs we have to vote again. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 50th, the same club of MPs, we have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 51st Re-Club of Representatives of the SDP, please, that's the one that's been withdrawn. 52. The SDP's club is not accepted by the government, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 53. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn. 54. We must vote on the SDP's representative's club. He didn't get the votes he needed. 55. I'd like to vote again. He didn't get the votes he needed. 56. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn. 57. We must vote on the SDP's representative's club. He didn't get the votes he needed. 58. SDP representative's club, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 59. The Committee on Legislatives has adopted the amendment. And the last 60. We must vote on the SDP's representative's club. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land, please vote. It voted 123 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 18 abstentions and 28 against and thus passed the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land. Proposal for a decision on the report on the number and credibility of the voters' signatures and the legality of the voter signing procedure from the request for a call for a State referendum of the Citizens' Initiative "Let's decide together" and a request for a call for a State referendum of the Civil Initiative "Enough of Post-Corruption". The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the debate is closed. Before we go to the vote to request a break from colleague Selak Rasdic, please colleagues and colleagues, what was it? Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102296	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club, and they told us that the day finally came, and no one knows by exactly what criteria it was today, and it wasn't yesterday or tomorrow. It's just that that day colluding with the day that it decides on our referendum initiatives. And that shows the essence of your decision in this pandemic that was purely political, not scientific. And that's the way to decide with this referendum we're finally going to put an end to it. You told us, your Minister Bozinovic told us that we would finally be able to party by dawn. It is a fact that in a situation of such inflation, you think that the only thing that interests Croatian citizens is that there they are partying until dawn. But we have no doubt that the only thing that suits you is drunk and seductive citizens so that they are not aware of the Croatian realities and this government that governs them. It's been expected that our questions are being sent to the Constitutional Court, you've been announcing this since the beginning. It is a political commitment and abuse of power to prevent citizens from gaining their democratic right. We have concluded that the Constitutional Court member Sheparovic is exempt from voting because of his de facto counter-constitutional statements that the people cannot decide on amendments to the Constitution in the referendum and that a referendum is being called as soon as possible and no later than September that this situation would not be repeated in the autumn. What we want to do with this referendum is once again clearly repeat it is an institutional shield against human rights that this will never happen again until dawn and that your headquarters will no longer be able to arbitrarily do so again. to party until dawn. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102297	We have another request for a break, Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102298	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I request a 10 minute break in order to send another clear message to the Croatian public about the need to make such decisions of the Croatian Parliament. In Croatia's political life, in the academic community, there is a belief among the constitutional legal experts in Croatia that the first question relating to the Citizens' Initiative "Enough of headquarters" which would change the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases is the same as the second referendum issue raised by the Civil Initiative "Let's decide together" is against the constitution. And that is why the Croatian Parliament is obliged when there is such a serious doubt in Croatian society before the referendum is called into question to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. As far as the Most conclusions on the exemption of the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, that conclusion has shown first and foremost that the Syntagma may not be flossula, but the fact of the coalition between the Most and We can. It is incomprehensible that MOST does not mind the fact that the constitutional judge who will decide on the constitutionality of these referendum initiatives this week was a panelist on the political tribune and round table of the organization We can or may not be green-left bloc. And that fact that it happened for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia and since the constitutional trial doesn't bother the Mosta. So much for the Bridge. And as for this initiative, which put lies in the mouth of the President of the Constitutional Court, it would be best to comment once and paraphras one proverb, which is that, constantly in this world, only bridges lie constantly is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102299	Okay, the break's approved, but now we've got a whole series of damages to our rules of procedure, so we're going to be on our way. First is colleague Raspadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102300	Please calm your colleagues, I know that you are in a solemn mood that the great leader celebrates his birthday today, but I ask you to behave with dignity in the assembly and ask that time return to me because you did not warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102301	But we can't do it all, is one part of it you've spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102302	Please make sure the MPs are calmed down if I can use my right to speak, and then get me started...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102303	A colleague of Rasdic, when the HDZ representatives spoke, heard the murmur and disdain from the bench of the opposition, so don't, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102304	It was your failure that you didn't warn then, I beg to be allowed to say in peace and quiet what I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102305	I'll give you back your time, but for 25 seconds because you spent these first ones on a birthday card to the man you love very much. Here's 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102306	I would also like you to remember Mr. Karamark and Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's birthdays, especially Mr. Sanader, as you once well congratulated them to congratulate them now. Thus, the 238th insult and demeaning of MPs, counterpart Bacic, discusses the concerns of constitutional experts, etc. [[The incursion of the president: The competent people congratulate the birthday.]] We have witnessed to the public only the disgrace of certain people, such as constitutional expert Baric, who gave constitutional courts and priorities. She said the question was unconstitutional before we handed it down, let alone publicized it. Secondly, she was part of a four-member team at the time of President Josipovic who proposed amendments to the constitution where they put exactly what we wanted. An epidemic and a pandemic to make a two-thirds decision, and you call it a respected constitutional expert. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Rasdic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102307	My colleague, please, you're getting a warning this isn't a breach of the rules of procedure. This is kind of a replica. Comrade Selak Rasudić, please. I'm sorry, I didn't hear, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102308	He's been injured. 238nd colleague Bačić, we are on all constitutional judges, in general at this political trade and the way the constitutional court was elected, and we have no reason to defend neither Šeparović nor those who go to any round tables. But here what is controversial is the disputed statement of the President of the Constitutional Court who said that the people in the referendum cannot bring the constitution. That is to say, the people of the referendum can bring not only the constitution can bring changes to the constitution, if you like. [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grumoja.]] and the whole constitution. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102309	And this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is also a replica, so you get a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102310	Art. In 238, you have described everything about this decision on our initiatives. You said the issues were against the constitution, and you see that you do not decide but the Constitutional Court, unless you publicly admit here that you know in advance the decision of the Constitutional Court or that you will make a political decision, and the Constitutional Court will be its sole enforcer. Now that's exactly what we're up against and why we're looking for a referendum, and the people are looking for it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102311	And you get a warning, too. Let's move on, now she's going to be a colleague of Bencic's, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102312	Injury. The 238th demeaning of MPs, as well as the institutions of HS. Namely, the Club of Representatives We can organize a round table at which, of course, in the assembly as a constituency round table at which you of course had no interest to come because you are not interested in the question of the judiciary. You too have a problem with Mr. Bacic when judges are taking part in a debate with parliament on the future of the judiciary, and you have no problem agreeing with the President of the Constitutional Court in a private arrangement far from the eyes of the public Anything you have to deal with him. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleagues Bencic.]] But the problem is when the debate is publicly transmitted.../Conversation disabled./... [[Intruder President: Comrade Bencic thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102313	You get a warning from your colleagues Bencic, you get a one for now. Here you go, pal Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102314	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Selak Rasudić, has been injured by an article. The 238th Rules of Procedure of the HS degrades other MPs. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ listen to what I said, I said there is a serious doubt, and I did not say, I said that there is a serious doubt among constitutional experts in the political life of Croatia, in the end in this assembly, except for you the first question is the first decision to send a legislative referendum on the assessment of constitutionality The whole opposition except for the ruling. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102315	Thank you very much. And you get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102316	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, given that Grmoj's colleague is no longer in politics, I will then give the Rules of Procedure a violation because he is trying to put pressure on the constitutional court with his behaviour here, but disqualify them individually and as an entire constitutional court. I think these people are going to tell you what they think about these questions, and you don't have to get excited about it when they're so sure of everything they've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102317	And you get a warning. My colleague now, Petrov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102318	Unfortunately, my colleague, Boric, has been injured by an article. In 238, he demeaned the parliamentary representatives and the general public because he was one of the first to degrade the constitutional court at the moment he supported Mr. Mlakar who falsely represented himself in a bank in order to obtain the trust of him to enter the constitutional court, they were the ones who brought down the image and brand of the constitutional court. And now to those same friends of yours They're sending our referendum initiative. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102319	You're getting a warning from a colleague of Petrov's. We've exhausted the rules of procedure, and now we're moving on with the request for a break. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102320	On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are looking for a break to give the knowledge to both the Croatian public and the esteemed Croatian Assembly, all MPs and MPs as Stožer, our Anticovid Stožer, has actually done its job in a tremendously ineffective, indifference, disorganised way over the past years. His only reaction, which can be considered timely even before time, is this because he declared the crown 10 days earlier this year than the next one, rather than the previous two and that because 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia decided to hold a referendum so that there would never be a headquarters in Croatia again. It is incomprehensible that one small click, the number of people abuses human rights and freedoms in Croatia so much that today no one has the need for media and relevant politicians to react in the mainstream to one terrible fact that the deputy director of HZZO, the Croatian Institute of Public Health Mrs. Ivana Pavić Simetin, recently said that they had ordered even 127 doses per person for vaccination in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm wondering, we're all wondering my people have been telling us so far that three doses, a booster is enough. So what about 127? Who paid for it? Where will it end and where will it take care of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102321	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102322	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what my colleague Selak-Raspudic said came and that day, it's going to be that day. There's a sequel, but I won't. This fellow Members and colleagues are not our referendum, but it is our Constitution, but it is our law and they have signed our citizens and they deserve our citizens who have signed their signature to be valued, to act in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. And the Constitution was changed in 2010. We know why? Due to a referendum on Croatia's EU accession. And that constitutional provision has become the biggest threat and referendum initiatives and democracy in Croatia because the whole referendum story comes down to the collection of signatures and assessments of constitutional issues, rather than how it should be reduced to how people will vote in the referendum. This is why the issue of constitutional regulation of the matter of the referendum should be updated again, to reduce the number of signatures, to increase the number of votes in order for the decision to be taken, to regulate but not so broadly and in general topics that can be decided in the referendum, which are within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. And as a mature state of democracy and Parliament, first and foremost, agree new rules for referendum initiatives. The SDP representative club does not support that the constitutional referendum goes to the Constitutional Court because we consider it to be regulatory, constitutional and that a referendum should be called, and we support the Constitutional Court as legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u102323	Comrade Bauk it will be that day, hang the Zimmer frei, lie under the palm tree and enjoy. I think my colleague Kekin knows everything. Let's go now, let's go to the vote. The first proposal for a decision on the basis of requests for a national referendum of the Citizens' Initiative "Let's decide together" as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's vote. I find that 115 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 12 abstentions and 26 against, have voted, so a decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the grounds of the motion for a national referendum of the Citizens' Initiative "Enough of Post-Corruption" as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's vote. 109 deputies and MPs voted, 91 for, 9 abstentions, 9 against and a decision was made as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Club of Representatives of the Most proposes to the Assembly a conclusion that reads: The Croatian Assembly is based on Article 87. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 3. The law on referendums and other forms of participation in the exercise of state authority, local and regional (regional) self-government will discuss the referendum as quickly as possible, and by September 2022 at the latest that two or three people would not decide again to deny the rights and freedom of citizens. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that 95 MPs and MPs voted, 17 for, 1 abstention and 77 against, so the proposal for a conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes. In the event that the Croatian Assembly of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia requests that the contents of the referendum issue be determined in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87 paragraph 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of a State referendum are met on the basis of requests for a call for a national referendum of the Civilian Initiative ‘Let's decide together’ and the request for a call for a State referendum of the Citizens' Initiative ‘Enoughs of Post-Corruption’ from the Constitutional Court's decision will exclude the President of the Constitutional Court of Justice Miroslav Šeparović, as in July 2019 in an interview for the morning paper, it was a scandalous and conflicting stance that the referendum could not be adopted and amended, please vote. 86 MPs and MPs voted, 9 for, 77 against, so the conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes. Final draft law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 267. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. I find that with 122 votes, the Law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance and the health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia was unanimously passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83023	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Ante Prkacin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I've been doing for two days. A large number of letters come to me especially from BiH. I brought one this morning. Prof. Halid Baby from Bihaq is very unhappy with what he heard him say like this. Mr. Prickin, I'm watching and listening to your speech at the assembly of six. 4th and I remained sad, heavily disappointed with some of your understandings and claims concerning BiH. The more I keep a fluid connection with you as a BiH fighter, a leading member of the HoS witness to some major injustices that have been committed towards BiH, etc. I still got a lot of letters like that. The one where she spits at me, where she's so ugly at me, I don't care at all. The one who overly praises me is not important to me either, but here I see especially with Bosniaks sorry for my actions. General, you once loved us, you loved us, but I love you just the same now, but your political authority doesn't love you. And primarily he does not like my people because he who leads this policy towards BiH does not love either, nor does he love a third nation. I'm also interested in a few letters. Let's say one asks me why Zoran Milanovic's policy towards BiH is more quality than Andrej Plenkovic's policy. You know by what, because Zoran Milanovic is clearer, bolder and better hit the centre of the world because at the latest Cović-Plenkovic press conference, Plenkovic warns that it would be nice to relax the relations of Croats and Bosniaks and that it would be nice to regain our trust, etc., so can we talk about restoring confidence without mentioning the fact that they are 1995. In the 11th, 12th month, a month later, the first Croatian police officer named Ljubic was killed in Mostar. So it's '98. Two Croatian police returnees were killed in the middle of Bosnia. Killing a police officer without the top of political power is out of the question. That's what Sarajevo knew, I'm accusing them of. I don't mind that we relax relationships, but we need to relax relationships based on facts. And when Zoran Milanovic says they're looking into the eyes and they're lying, it's true. There is no man to be trusted among the Bosniak political elite. I commended Konatovic here he has something boyly in him, I don't believe him either, perhaps Fahri Radoncic could be believed here and there. Whatever they say is a lie, and that is the important difference, the important difference between Zoran Milanovic and Andrej Plenkovic, who behaves more in this way, more Europeanly, and that is not appropriate for Croatia at the moment. So, I've got more, more, more, hmm mentioned Professor. The baby I'm good with and the shame that he's not here in the assembly, and you'd have a lot to learn from him because I'm what I said and what I said I found in his, so I found it in his texts. So they tell me why I don't comment on Lucic's statement by which the BiH Army attacked the premises where they were, so where they were more powerful than the HVO. So they weren't defending themselves, they were going on the attack. You know why I didn't mention that? I didn't mention what he was doing. Lucice forgot to mention another fact. Bozo Rajic betrayed those in '92. Some kind of law, some kind of rule, some kind of pre-beginning decision. Which would mean that where the mighty HVO is to be subordinated to him by Muslims, where it is more powerful for the army to submit to the Croats. It was a strong reminder of the division of BiH. That's when I said, gentlemen of the Croatian politicians don't do this because you will put Bosniaks, Muslims in a position to fight against Serbs for the country instead. If they fight for the country, they will kidnap her where she is more easily kidnapped, and it is easier to take her away from the Croats than to the Serbs. So, I guess I'm going to continue one, six days in a row to talk about everything, it's just five hints that I'm about to talk about. I'll talk about Ivo Komsic. How many 19 seconds? About Ivo Komsic, whom the Bosniaks are, is an extremely educated man, unlike Željko Komsic, who is illiterate, who is semi-literate. From Ivo Komsic they make fun of him as a gangster, he says that 50,000 divers, the paratroopers Putin, will send him to BiH, and Putin sent two hundred to Ukraine and the Ukrainians killed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83025	Thank you, thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83229	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to read the entire bloc of Professors. Vedran Anđulovic, an extraordinary professor at the Department of Administrative Science of the Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb, whose only part of it I will read and quote here. The reason for this text was recently the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and Administration addressed to the city of Split on their question as to who acts as mayor in case the mayor and one of his deputies resigned. In short, the ministry's fundamental position can be summarised as follows. In the event of the resignation of the mayor and the deputy who was listed immediately after the mayor, so-called The first deputy office of mayor cannot possibly be carried out by a deputy who has failed to resign and who still has an active term of office, so-called Second Deputy. How problematic and contrary to the purpose and meaning of the law to which the ministry is called, but also the basic idea of local self-government and local democracy, I will explain through several arguments below. At the very beginning, it should be recalled that the right to local self-government is a constitutional category and that, according to the letter of the Constitution, Article 4 of the local self-government is one of the semi-distributions of the government. Local and regional self-government is a means of limiting the central state government, so any entry into it should be legal, measured and consistent with the principle of proportionality as one of the main principles of public administration action. The latest opinion of the Ministry of Justice and the Administration violates all those requirements. First. It is not legal because the solutions highlighted therein do not comply with the provisions of the Law on local, regional self-government as long as the Ministry claims to know the purpose and purpose of the arrangements resulting from the applicable provisions of the law. In its opinion, the ministry makes it impossible for the deputy to do his basic task, which is to replace the mayor in the event of his prevention or termination of the term of office. Secondly, it is not measured and in line with the principle of proportionality, because it does not take advantage of other milder opportunities to ensure stability in the local unit. What is the purpose of the second deputy mayor's institute at all if he cannot replace the mayor in the event of his prevention, i.e. the termination of the term of office, which ultimately stems from the very name of his deputy mayor. The Department of Administration won't let him do it. Why? Because he was second on the list. It seems like I'm writing a template for the remakes of the famous Monty Python series, but with the subtitle Croatian chatter says prof. Dwarf. From the whole intonation of Article 40d. The law clearly states that in the event of the mayor’s prevention and even his resignations, the law provides for a deputy if he is still in office, or if he has an active mandate. In doing so, the law properly comes from an assumption that there is no reasonable justification and no need to appoint a Commissioner if there is an active deputy in the local self-government unit who is directly elected by the voters of a specific local unit as well as the mayor. The story of the first and second deputies makes sense when there are at the same time two deputies with an active mandate, and then it is necessary to know clearly which of the two deputies has the advantage of replacing mayors as regulated in Article 40d. Article 4 It is not worth reminding of the mayor's case in custody in Zagreb, which resulted in the first deputy resigning in the end, and that the second one took over the mayor's post for the time of his stay in custody. The situation has already occurred that the second deputy has changed the mayor, although the ministry has consistently claimed that the second deputy can in no case be a deputy acting as mayor. The appointment of a government commissioner in the event that there is a deputy acting his duty is an eclectic derogation of the fundamental democratic postulates and violations of international legal and democratic standards concerning local self-government. The elected officials have the legitimacy acquired in the elections, as well as the legality arising from the conduct of their duties under the Law on Local Self-Government, other laws governing certain segments of local self-government. By nominateing the government commissioners, it is a harsh encroachment of the right to local self-government, particularly in terms of temporary replacement of bodies elected in democratic elections by the commissioner appointed by the central government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83284	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83285	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end of this session one little look we've had over the past few months. The drama began with the spectacular arrest of Minister Horvat on early Saturday morning followed by the total astonishment of Prime Minister Plenkovic, channeled a little later through a public attack on DORH. An investigation into Aladrovic and Milosevic followed, followed by Mrs. Tramišak coming out with threats allegedly sent to her because she did not want to give a job to the stalking IT company she has been dealing with for several years, and the prime minister was once again surprised by the bizarreness of such an event. Meanwhile, checks have also been carried out based on the findings of the State Audit and of Minister Beroshe and his ministry. The CUSPIS affair of the owner of Kojundzic has already been discussed, it is a business entrusted to that company, which according to the report of the State Audit in the upgrade of the central management system should have been charged for 5,000 hours and charged a million 875 thousand kuna. That account was issued within 12 days of the contract. In those 12 days, five people worked 5,000 hours, which specifically means that each of these people worked 83 hours a day. Over the past few months, we have seen all sorts of phenomena in the area of quantum physics within the HDZ, so much so that this government, in my opinion, could really be led by Mr. Krešimir Mišak on the basis of an earlier experience from “On the edge of science” than Plenkovic does. So we had cases of a space-time continuum disturbance when something happened sooner and later than it actually happened. There were also, of course, cases of biology when someone was taking travel expenses because he was going somewhere, and at the same time he was actually somewhere else, and we had a case still unsolved case of Schreedinger's cat because the bomb was also in the drone and it wasn't in the drone, so that the number of these physical phenomena is growing from day to day, and now it's been completed and so on. Time expansion because the day in HDZ people dearly lasts 83 hours. Now it's clear to me how you can produce such a number of corruption affairs because you have 83 hours. Others have 24 don't get that much. I have already said that it is not and are not these affairs the worst of what is happening to Croatia, the worst thing is that beneath all that on the edge of the circus's mind nothing happens. There is no green transition, there is no transformation of energy, there is no reform of education, there is no fight against poverty, there is no green industrialisation, there is no transformation of public administration, there is no transformation of territorial structure, there is nothing because the burden of affairs prevents any constructive work and government, but also for us here in the assembly. But it's not a new story, it's been going on since 2016. Because the half-life of Plenkovic's governments was reduced to a year and a half, after a year and a half, his governments fell apart. His answer to everything again is reconstruction. Reconstruction of what? How can you reconstruct or restore something that has rotted from the foundation and has been proven to rot for six or more years. So, evidence that the government's reconstruction cannot create a stable government directed by Andrej Plenkovic is the replacement of Horvat. Horvat is replaced by Minister Paladin, whose affairs are lower than the first day, which is in an eclectic example of conflict of interest from the first day that he is searching for 64 million kuna to come out of the ownership of the company which is therefore the owner of the Kukari project where he is now the minister at the head of the Kukara project's realisation commission and now imagine yourself in the position of those investors from whom he asks 64 million kuna. How will they say no to 64 million kuna when on the other hand they have a minister who decides on their concession and their project? What are we talking about? About the reconstruction? It's time for a longer holiday on the opposition benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83286	Thank you very much. We've exhausted this point with it, and now we're going to take a break because we announced a vote at 12:00 a.m. as usual, so we're going to get some rest and then we're going to have a vote. Thank you. It's 11:49 p.m. Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, as we have announced, we begin to present a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, and will speak first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most, respected representative of Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83377	Thank you, Vice President. Here's today's vote on an important decision. In 30 years of our independence, we had several referendums. The most important of our independence, we had a referendum on EU accession, but these are all the referendums that have been initiated. The only referendum, therefore initiated by citizens, is that referendum on marriage where enough signatures were collected and where the government of Zoran Milanovic had to allow the referendum. And here's what this is really about today, just to remind you how rare it is for the Croatian Parliament to make one such decision. We are today making a decision on two referendum initiatives where citizens have collected signatures to call a referendum. One is a constitutional one where we change the Constitution, one is a legislative one where we shut down COvid's headquarters and return to normal. So, the health minister makes decisions at HZZ's recommendation. And imagine on the same day that we make decisions on the government's referendum initiatives announces that all measures are abolished. So the removal of masks and everything else, of course, in order to try the topic which we, as well as Croatian citizens, have initiated to try to shut it down, remove it from the public's focus. We said yesterday that there is no reason for any joy when you are returned to what has been taken from you, they have not given you anything or given you anything but returned to you what they had already stolen from you, your fundamental human rights and freedoms. And it is quite clear that the measures we had in Croatia, although they were milder than in the rest of the European countries, were actually excessive and not adequate, did not pass this test of proportionality. All this price growth we have at the moment is not only caused by Russian aggression, it is only waiting for us, it is conditioned by what was happening, by all the measures that have been impacted, and on economic freedom, on our economy we know how much state support has had to give to entrepreneurs to ease this blow. Also by printing money at the European Central Bank in the United States. And all Croatian citizens are now actually suffering from such measures. We want to prevent that from happening again. We want to prevent some new Beroš, some new Capak in the fall, or perhaps again in the future from making decisions, two or three people making such measures. My colleague Rasdic says that Barroso is now hiding like a crazy grandmother in a closet, and he was before the main face actually HDZ, wearing a list in the 10th constituency was a superhero, so even the kids in kindergarten were probably drawing on a cat's warrant, and now he's nowhere to be found. We won't let it all be forgotten, but what's more important we mustn't let it happen again. And that's why these two referendums are important. The ruling majority has decided to send these referendum initiatives to the Constitutional Court and thus miniminate them, and we are also going to vote on these conclusions today, have referred 2 conclusions in which we are asking for the speedy opening of the referendum, and no later than autumn 2022, and in the case, and this will happen because the rulings have the majority that our referendum issues go to the Constitutional Court, we are looking for the exception of the President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Šeparovic. Why? Because in 2019, before the presidential campaign, when some candidates announced constitutional changes and greater ones, and asked for greater powers for the president himself, the citizens said in the referendum could not adopt the constitution. These are counter-constitutional changes, statements. Citizens can adopt a new constitution in a referendum, they can amend the constitution because, according to Article 1, all government comes from the people. It will be our attitude, and MOST will always be on the defender of human rights and freedom. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83457	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Commissioner Mirela Ahmetovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83458	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Beros, Ćorić, Aladrović, Tramišak, Paladina, Vučković, Grlic-Radman, Bozinović, Banozic and I could count for so long, but it takes a long time for me in this short period of time to process, at least honestly process all of Plenkovic's affairs. But let's at least get some. Not so long ago, compromised Minister Aladrovic announced to the public that Croatia is a phenomenal place to live. Then he assured us that young people were coming back, that they were hiring, and he did not tell us who was hiring and how. Looks like they're going to have to talk to the DORH and USKOK about it because they're very interested in his employment and his ability to hire the like. Minister Ćoric simply does not cease to delight the public with his creative energy policy-making. Although he was warned that he would do damage to the state if the concession for the hydropower plant to the security company, he did. He was warned by his assistant, Validzic, for which USKOK was particularly interested. Ćoric counts small, with small amounts of Croatian energy being handed over, leased and alienated from Croatia. And not to be too fixed just to the ministers there in that Plenkovic flock a lot, a lot of affairs. Frane Barbaric, another HDZ official, allegedly not exactly in idyllic relations with Coric. He bought the most expensive electricity in history for as long as five years. The whole job is costing half a billion euros. In this case, it is particularly interesting that the HEP-s Supervisory Board had no on it and it was recognised by the chairman, the chairman of the Supervisory Board. I say Barbaric bought it, but of course the citizens paid out of their pockets. But it's a good thing it's not just that some HDZ members are having an affair problem right now. It's good for their friends, too. That's how we learned that Willy Berosh, a superhero and a medal, made it possible for his friend to make 20 million kunas, and that's not gossip. So, the State Audit found that the employees of Beroshe's friend worked 80 hours a day, please watch out for 80 hours a day. HDZ and their friends are obviously taking a long time, perhaps practicing since it is known that in Remetice time is slowly passing. But back to the ministers, the last in a series of Plenkovic's choices he found thanks to his highly sophisticated radar has property of approximately 60 million kuna with 39 years of life. If he is not proof that Croatia is a phenomenal place to live, then I really don't know who that is. But that's not all, the new minister immediately hired the PR agency, right away. The SDP government, namely I only remind you here, has made a decision to prohibit the engagement of PR agencies by the ministries and public bodies, to allow the Plenkovic government to do so in 2017, and now we see why, in order for public money to iron the image of the Aferian ministers, that is the reason. What's interesting in this case is that the agency selected from the Department of Construction in 2020 is. had a total income of 190.000 kuna, beware the total income of the agency in one year is 190.000 kuna. And you know how much this job is worth, this engagement from the Department of Construction under the Paladin stick? Yeah, you guess, just 190.000 kuna, so one job 190.000 kuna compared to the whole year of income. Great. We don't know if it has anything to do with what the owner of the Dubrovnik-born agency where Paladin was working on the Kupari project, which has failed infamously, but I am convinced that this fact, this information, will be very interesting to the press. Dear colleagues and colleagues, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is tired of HDZ, is tired of its ministers, of the colossal victories of partner capitalism, of false patriotism and of Plenkovic's radar. Croatia is ready for the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83589	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Erik Fabianic, will now speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then he's going to speak to a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, on behalf of the HSS and the Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83590	Good afternoon, everyone. There's something I'd like to say about successful ministers, successful entrepreneurs, and how to move on with the huge success that's coming to us. We ask ourselves why successful entrepreneurs become ministers? Why do they need it so they have so much pay, they have so much property, they don't pay the property, they have so much savings, but here they need to become ministers because they protect their own interests and the interests of their own elite group. The ministers who come are looking forward to rebuilding and reconstructing the government because those ministers who come really represent the Ministers of Cases, we can do an analysis of how this country fails. Paladin, so we have a minister who, as I've earned for myself, will earn for everyone else. But it wouldn't have worked that way. As we can see, he is the Minister of State Property, the owner of a company that has a concession on state property. In itself, it's already a conflict of interest. It's about a minister who says nothing I didn't get from Russian capital, everything is Croatian. It is all Croatian, it has robbed everything Croatian. So the low-building hydropower company first picked it up, cleaned up the company of everything it's worth. He promised the workers hills and valleys, cheated on the workers, and then shut down the company. Also for Russian capital and Russian tycoon. Now we've learned that he didn't report in his IGH property card, so he didn't, of course, report them because it's obvious that this is exactly what we're dealing with here is just guessing and collecting on that monopoly principle. We have ministers who play monopolies and collect real estate in Croatia, so he didn't report these shares either because it's really good money. He invested at least twice as much as that, got twice what he invested shares so IGH earned on privileged information. Now that game of monopoly we're going to watch, I guess maybe some other ministers are becoming a serious problem. Our companies are really collapsing. We are basically losing the last levers of the possibility of economic development. Just about the same models. Now, I've received an industrial worker, a story that's kind of finished long ago, but all these stories unfortunately have the same denominators, and they're successful entrepreneurs. The budget is not filled with taxes on rich people, their property, savings, rents, dividends, but filled with workers with the lowest incomes in Europe. That's why Paladin doesn't report his wife with 4,000 kunas, and she doesn't live alone on salary. He lives on rent, he lives on what is so lowly taxed in Croatia. So these myths about the weak, big taxes that need to be reduced aren't exactly accurate. What should really be taxed is that capital and that property and the rent from which they are rich. Then we finally come to the point of saying that wages are relatively good in Croatia, so we come to the fact that here the other day we publish a newspaper that in Podravka pays an average of 8000 kuna for which workers have had almost a nervous breakdown, sending their salaries and their pay cuts to the media to warn them that the highest pay there is a little more than 4000 kuna. But we have 33 managers who have over 50,000 kunas, and then the average turns out to be 8,000 kuna. Well, come on, so we're right where we are. The companies have destroyed successful entrepreneurs like Hydropower, Orljava, Oilies. All this was destroyed by HDZ with its successful entrepreneurs without any industrial policies. Now it's Brodosplit's turn. Ship Split has yet another successful entrepreneur who is now seeking the help of the state. But what we should do if we finally want to stop these policies is really help Brodosplit, not Fatty. But the state prefers to help the Fats and the Paladins rather than the workers and maintain our production, so Horvat would rather pay for not delivering the boat than to give 150 000 kunas for completing the Jaruzals that would allow the production to continue and to maintain jobs, so I'm afraid it will be here too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83591	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Emil Daus, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I've got a topic, in Istrian villages, villages come to people's doorstep and without a delay break the door down by economic facilities if they smell food inside. They feast neatly in fields, gardens destroying the efforts and money of local farmers. On a regular basis, they have started walking coastal towns where, apart from the promenades themselves along coastal promenades, they turn over garbage cans to search for leftover food. And it's not about some thieves, some bums, it's about wild pigs right now, the least welcome guests on the Istrian peninsula. And it's not just those big game, sweethearts, deer constantly doing damage to olive trees, orchards that take a few years to recover if you can save a tree at all. But because of its numbers, the game began to be a very serious danger to traffic safety. It almost doesn't pass a day on the Istrian roads so there won't be some car accident with a car crash on the game. And when we add to all the damage that has been making the growing carbon population lately, there are catastrophic situations and great concerns. Farmers are facing a big dilemma whether to move forward with agricultural production due to high indemnity and total damage to their crops and crops. The repellents, or electric shepherds, and hunting-organized heifers are no longer helpful, regardless of the large number of shot savages, simply the population has increased so much that all measures so far are not sufficient. There are over 50 wild pigs in the herd along with their cubs, and who knows how many such herds are on the move every day or every night. Srna was not in such a number in the area recently seen a large number of deer savages. The lack of livestock especially in free pasture has caused the deforestation of pastures, meadows, shades, and their conversion into forests in recent decades. All these savages provide natural shelter and security, and those small areas under the crops are now located next to the forest and almost impossible to defend against the savages. The specificity of the Istrian relief should be added to all of this, but also to the catastra itself, where there are many tiny particles on a small surface with many different owners, some of which are scattered around the world, and some of them are no longer living. And all of these factors, along with the fact that there is no legal framework that would regulate the responsibility of the owners themselves to the abandoned agricultural area, create the preconditions for the uninterrupted increase of the game population, and hence, the growing problems they cause in space. I therefore use this opportunity and once again appeal to all of you here, but to all other state institutions that can affect the problem of harm from savages to meet as soon as possible and find a solution to this big problem because it is not only in Istria, I hear from colleagues that it has started to be in all of Croatia. The work in the field, sowing and planting began somewhere that seed would be only food for wild pigs and would not even appear. Soon there will be a tourist season, not for the first time colleagues and colleagues to leave the facility, e.g. holiday homes when they get scared in the morning watching a wild pig by the pool or how at night his whole herd mottled by the apartment looking for food in garbage cans. And while I'm saying this, it's very likely that some deer jumped right now in front of someone's car or that deer did such damage in some fruit plantation that the owner would be recovering for years. The situation is very serious, much more serious than it can be explained here in a five-minute speech. And if we really want to preserve sustainable agriculture, biodiversity, fire protection, and let's not forget that adult vegetation is a great danger to fire, if we want to increase the safety of the traffic and safety of the inhabitants themselves and their guests, since part of the game belongs to both beasts and dangerous animals per person, if we want to hurry up and save it while we still save ourselves because if not, then what remains of our farmers in Istria? The only thing to do is to start writing bass and then after Ezop's to become popular Istrian, I've already got one title in mind for the boar, the deer and the nail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83708	In the name of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83709	Thank you. Respected, the Ministry of Agriculture is one of the 3 ministries whose work in 2020 was held by the State Audit Office and received a conditional opinion on financial reports and business coherence. When it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, he is resented that he did not protect his rights in the return of funds from the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries from 2014 to 2020. State audits to the Ministry of Irrespectives and for not having adopted a regulation governing the way in which the rights and use of the funds for the general services of the forest are exercised. It was to be adopted by August 2019 but was not adopted until the time of implementation of the audit. As the ministry of previous years had lost nearly 125 million kuna in 2020, it had nearly 188 million kuna from these sources. However, it is scandalous to know that the audit found that by May 2021 the ministry had not established a register of contracts and charges for all forms of availability of state land, although it should have done so by 1 September 2018, so almost 3 years earlier. The State Office has made a number of recommendations, for example, to extend the functions of the ARCOD system in order to see the data on state land, according to the status of use and users themselves, and to establish a system to show whether the state land is used in a long-term lease for production, or whether it is a mere means of obtaining support. The audit office also recommended that data on state agricultural land be entered into the central register of state property. There is now no combined data on the surface and the value of that land in the business books of any state body. Although the Croatian village is experiencing real agony these days, it is looking at the collection of all repromaterials, fuels and fertilisers, and the crop itself is questionable, but also the harvest, and because of the reduced investments primarily in the storage of crops in the ministry, it is obvious that they do not consider it important to establish records of those who are fortunate already able to reach state land, and it is possible that the land is not paid at all because the second is then concluded from the preliminary findings of the audit. Whom the ministry protects by refusing to publicly disclose who is using the land and whether it is paid or not. The European CoPE COGECA Farmers' Association is aware of the situation in which the whole of Europe has been asked by the EU to do its utmost to address all available countries by 2020 and thus compensate for the blockade of Russian and Ukrainian agricultural production due to the war that is going on. Everything must be done to prevent supply chains from being disrupted that will inevitably lead to shortages in certain parts of the world. This is an important issue of food sovereignty and democratic stability, the European farmers' roof association from the coordination meeting said. In fact, strong solidarity of the agricultural community with the Ukrainian people is real and visible in all Member States. Farmers have already begun to welcome refugees on their farms, the first convoys that have been organized are on their way, and other supplies of that financial donation are being sent along with food. All available initial analyses clearly show us the importance of the challenge of reconstruction that European agriculture will face in the short and medium term. The war that affects Europe will have consequences around the world for several more years, and most of the production will be directly or indirectly affected. It is therefore important to have a strong attitude to prevent this humanitarian and economic disaster from responding together. Therefore, farmers and cooperatives are now awaiting concrete guidelines and actions as well as a solution to food, energy, climate and environmental challenges, and it is urgent that the European agricultural potential is freed from this work. In this, the whole of Europe is united. The whole of Europe obviously except Croatia. Those who control Croatia continue to allow us a mess in this area. In our Ministry of Agriculture, they continue to hide information from the public who processes Croatian national land arenas and how they are priced and how they can be classified alongside countries that are consciously working and caring for the future of their nation, but also those nations that are in need while the Croatian government and its respective ministries consciously and deliberately cover up information about who uses the most important resources from which the entire Croatian people should benefit, not just selected and similar individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83710	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Radoje Vidovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u83711	... mark a significant anniversary, anniversary, 30th anniversary of the established HVO. [[Specially enabled.]] The Croatian Defence Council, which first rose up in BiH's defence and defended BiH. The HVO, which defended the Croatian people under impossible conditions in BiH, made a significant and measurable contribution to the defence and liberation of the Republic of Croatia and made a significant contribution to the rescue of the Biaska region when it came before the fall of '95. A year. Thanks to the HVO, the victim of the HVO, the courage 28 years ago was signed by the Washington Peace Agreement. The agreement was signed by President Franjo Tudjman, Mr Ali Izetbegovic, Mr Haris Silajdzic and Mr Krešimir Zubac. The agreement established the Federation of BiH, but also reached an agreement on establishing a confederation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. The agreement was meant to address long-term relations between Croats and Bosniaks. BiH should have kept an independent, sovereign state of three equal constituent nations headed west towards Euro-Atlantic integration. Unfortunately, for 30 years the establishment of the HVO and 28 of the Washington Agreement, BiH is in a difficult crisis that is further deepened by the failure to change the electoral law and restored constitutional reforms. These negotiations should lead to the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling on the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in the BiH presidency of the people's home and at least partially correct or restore their rights to the Croats who were kidnapped in the previous period. It should also lead to an agreement to resolve discrimination against BiH citizens who do not belong to the constituent peoples. Although representatives of the Croatian National Assembly offered many solutions to the final agreement did not come. And the deal did not come for a simple reason because part of the Bosniak political summit in Sarajevo does not give up on its war goals, does not give up trying to turn the Federation of BiH into a Bosniak, Bosniak state. Although such moves are in direct contrast with the international peace treaty, even though such moves are unwitting to use a more difficult word in front of Croats in BiH, and thus towards Croats around the world. These negotiations also showed that it is impossible to reach a final solution in BiH without a strong engagement of the international community. This is why I want to clearly, unequivocally commend, thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the head of Prime Minister Plenkovic who is doing a lot of things and is strongly saying that he would explain the Croatian position in the centres of power above all in Brussels and Washington. That these efforts of Croatian diplomacy, Prime Minister Plenkovic, have been successful in showing a statement following a recently held US-Croatian forum that clearly stressed the need to preserve the constitutionality and equality of the people of BiH. It is also a significant success to include consistency in the EU's strategic compass, which should be a guideline of what further policy will lead to BiH in the coming period. With this strong pledge by the Republic of Croatia for the constitutionality and equality of Croats in BiH, it is of course an incentive for Croats in BiH to remain open to agreements with the other two nations, but to insist on their legitimate requirements for equality in BiH as a prerequisite for the survival of Croats in BiH. I am convinced that with the help of the Republic of Croatia, which is a member of the EU and NATO alliance on this road, we will succeed because this issue is not only important for the Croats in BiH, but it is important for the whole of BiH, and it is important for the security and future of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. And finally I want to take the time to congratulate all members, former members of HVO, all those who experience the Croatian Defence Council as my congratulations this great anniversary of 30 years of the establishment of the Croatian Defence Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-08-0.u89321	And the final point for voting Selection, appointment and resolution. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. The debate is closed. I suggest if you agree to hold a united vote on both proposed decisions? Thank you very much. [[Step from the bench: We agree]] I am voting on the motion for decisions as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, please vote. 107 votes in favour, so decisions were unanimously made as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Dear MPs and advocates have already finished our work today, and we have already done the club statements. I hereby conclude the 10th session of HS, announcing that the 11th session will begin on 20 April. I wish you and your loved ones a happy Easter, to spend holidays with your loved ones and happy and healthy, every good. ... SESSION FINISHED AT 13:17 A.M. [[Applause]]
