ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u82894	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, good morning. I welcome you all. Today, as we announced, we have the first statement of view, so we will discuss the first point, it is the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, and then at 13 o'clock we would vote on all the points discussed so far, and then we would continue again with the Law on Euro. Just to let you know that according to the article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose the addition of the agenda of the 10th session with 1 new point, this is a proposal to show confidence in Ivan Paladina for the responsibilities of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. The proposal for this revision of the agenda has been submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure on the proposal to supplement the agenda was not adopted, i.e. that this item was included in the agenda of the 10th session. We are now moving on to a position, the first is the respected colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u82956	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. I have to start looking at the situation in Ukraine for a little while. It's still a catastrophic situation, the Russians are still attacking, maybe a little later on, but here, for now, let me just start with what we all know, the glory of Ukraine. Yesterday was March 8, and March 8, the International Women's Day, and this way, since this was yesterday, I congratulate all members of the better sex that day. Yesterday they were so-called. The progressives marked that day with some kind of night march, so they threatened, today, march, tomorrow strike. And it was very interesting, I'll even say funny, comedically listen to all of their demands or reasons why they marched yesterday. Because it doesn't matter, I'm gonna say brain or connection to Women and Women's Day. They, their demands were, or marched against imperialism, against militarism, against war and war coercion, it's all okay, to understand whether, against capital, against labour rights, come on, okay, against domestic violence, against sexual violence against women, and then interesting, even one of the demands was against nations, I don't know what it means against nations, but also what is crucial when they actually lose all arguments and when they don't know how to articulate, so at night they're hidden in Zagreb's twilight, then they say yes, we're for reproductive women's rights. And eventually all the masks fall and the only reason they're gathered together, they're gathered to say one more time, we're for killing unborn children. They call it reproductive women's rights, but in translation, science says, it's taking the lives of unborn children. And what does that have to do with Women's Day? So there was Pedja Grbin, there was Mayor Tomašević, all the nice progressive team from We can!, SDP and other pendants. I don't know if anyone from the Bridge is here, probably a colleague of Selak has joined because she has a similar attitude. So that is, so in Croatia is marked International Women's Day in an extremely progressive way and when asked what is really a problem for them because and abortion, I will say unfortunately in Croatia fully enabled, so, yes, they are the problem that the minister mentioned is planning to introduce additional counseling with women who would, who want to make an abortion and it is a huge problem. Here, since I don't have a club, so I won't be able to talk, so in time for a point that comes next, I'll say two words and I'll say the euro which is the next item of the agenda. Today, many will talk from this pay phone with tears in their eyes about the kuna, and it is about parties so-called. Right-handed, and you've done absolutely everything possible to make the referendum that I've been working on fail. They visited Croatia after us, told people, volunteers, don't get involved, we'll do our referendum on Covid, it's more important, and to gather them all together in one place and ask them to all say what people were collecting signatures about their referendum, no one has a clue. So, all those conceits who are going to tear down this payphone today and cry about the kuna, they did absolutely everything that the initiative I took part in and which I initiated didn't work out. And that's the only truth, and you need to know that. And they sacrificed the kuna to make a lame, stupid referendum on Covid's certificates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83003	Let's move on, the 6th debate of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement and the esteemed colleague Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83004	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will address you as a man who has been through hell of war, the encircling of the city, hell of captivity and camp, the severe suffering and the suffering that the war brings. Two weeks of aggression of Putin's regime in Ukraine. We see death, tears and the suffering of the Ukrainian people fighting for their naked survival. We ourselves felt Serbia's brutal aggression on our skin 30 years ago, and therefore I sincerely sympathise with the Ukrainian people. Of all the European and world politicians who swore to help Ukraine, none of them took the rifle in hand and went to fight the occupiers. And let's be honest with them, nobody expected it. However, I was embarrassed to note that the promise that Prime Minister Plenkovic made a month ago in Kiev ended, that he would strongly respond if Russia attacked Ukraine. When the war started in Ukraine, I thought he took the gun and went to Mariupoli, but he ended up still in Dubai. It was intended to visit the world's exhibition. So much for his hard answer. There would be no war in this world if politicians, tycoons, oligarchs and their children had to take a rifle in hand and go to the front line of the battlefield. War is for ordinary humans of mortals. I will quote French author and philosopher Paul Valeri who says: “War is a massacre of people who do not know each other. For the sake of profit, people who know each other but don't get massacred."I will also quote a short song by Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish "the war will end, the leaders will shake hands, but she will remain a single mother who yearns for her son and that woman who waits for her beloved husband and those children who seek her father's hero. I don't know who sold the Homeland, but I saw who paid the price." The Ukrainian people are experiencing the hardest days of their extremely difficult and brutal history. Holodomor or Gladomor, a murder deliberately caused by hunger, artificially created by a food shortage crisis from 1932 to '33. According to the UN's joint statement, he executed between 7 million and 10 million people, the largest majority of whom are Ukrainians. The 20th country recognised the event as an act of genocide to the Ukrainian people, including Argentina, Australia, Canada, Colombia, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Vatican and the United States and the EU declared it a crime against humanity. In order to move from empty words to a concrete act as an indelible sign of sincere and deep compassion for the Ukrainian people on behalf of the Homeland Movement, I call on the Croatian Parliament to bring a declaration which the Republic of Croatia will officially recognise as genocide. Although I am afraid because we also have a club of representatives, such as the SDSS, which does not recognise Russia's aggression against Ukraine, but unfortunately does not recognise Serbia's aggression against Croatia in '91. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83062	We are going to another debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83063	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the crisis in Ukraine has greatly shaken the whole world and the whole of Croatia and the world's public following the events in Ukraine. However, Croatia still has its problems and concerns that have not disappeared overnight. Namely, the cancer of the modern Croatian state is corruption. The corruption has been so rooted in Croatian society over the past 30 years, and the most important thing is the political summit. In fact, with us, what unfortunately became normal has become corrupt. It's become normal for you to get a job in state, public service, municipal, city services through a relationship. It has become normal for you to arrange a doctor’s examination at the hospital via a connection. It became normal that when a traffic cop stopped you from calling on your grandmothers, uncles, mayors, deputies to avoid paying your fines. It's become normal for your membership card to open every door in this country. It has become normal for this membership card to give you certain incentive funds for your State budget turnovers beyond all competitions. It has become normal for you to even get European funds that don't belong to you because you have a relationship. Unfortunately, that's why we're all where we are. The last to be developed in the EU, probably at the very beginning. This is unfortunately confirmed by the latest Transparency International data that came out in late January where, according to the corruption perception index, Croatia is located in the famous 63 places with only 47 of the possible 100 points, and what is worst in the last 7 years is a constant decline. We've been stagnating for the last three years. We're in Malaysia, Cuba and Montenegro. In front of us is Georgia, Bhutan, Qatar, Rwanda, without talking about Scandinavian EU countries such as Denmark, such as Sweden, etc. And then the question arises how much the political summit has just contributed to where we are primarily present, but also the former government. Namely, it should be borne in mind that the last 6 years of the rule of Andrej Plenkovic's more ministers left the government due to suspicion of corruption or corruption than in the 6 years of the rule of Ivo Sanader, who is otherwise a son, a synonym for political corruption in Croatia. So let's remember the long-forgotten ministers who left because of numerous affairs and suspicions of corruption. Milan Kujundzic, Goran Maric, all known Lovro Kuščević, Martina Dalic, Tomislav Tolusic, Gabriela Zalac, the sequence continues in the current government of Minister Darko Horvat, and the exit door includes Minister Aladrovic and Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic. What do they all have together? All of them were chosen by one man, Andrej Plenkovic. It's his team he plays games with. It is his choice and he should bear political responsibility for it. But what does Andrej Plenkovic do? The prime minister is reviewing the work of the DORH as an independent body, reviewing why certain ministers are arrested and thus reducing citizens' trust in institutions in particular those they need and must be independent. The Croatian government must go into emergency reconstruction if it wants to retain the legitimacy of Croatian voters. Andrej Plenkovic must be tackled with the fight against corruption because otherwise we will continue to be at the very beginning of the EU. And by corruption and by development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83125	The 9th debate of the Social Democrats' Club, dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday was March 8th International Women's Day and let me once again from this pay phone to all our fellow MPs, as well as state officials, employees, journalists to all those who work in this, in this assembly I congratulate their day as well as of course to all citizens and citizens. He says everyone, if they stop women, the world will stop. And I think it best describes the role women play in modern society. And that is why my colleagues and colleagues, along with some of you here, marched the streets of Zagreb because while there is a small inequality, while there is a small inequality in the salary until then this fight is more than necessary and I am ordering it from this pay phone and some colleagues who obviously can't understand it. And now back to other topical themes. As some speakers before me have said about this pay phone war in Ukraine, they're still angry. Unfortunately, people die, a new situation is being set in the world and new geopolitical positions. Which means new approaches to food, food production, energy and many other topics that I have already talked about from this pay phone. But we're still pulling tails from other problems. I don't need to remind you of the two devastating earthquakes that hit Croatia. I don't think I have to remind you of the fact that the renovation hasn't started yet. Therefore, since the renovation there is no O after more than 2 years after the earthquake in Zagreb and almost 2 years of earthquakes in Banja. I don't have to remind you that very many people are still not in their homes, living in containers in very bad conditions, and we're talking about a period of 2 years and more. In a situation like this, our minister who is supposed to be leading the reconstruction is accused of corruption, arrest, distance, we have a little gray vacante or empty chair, and not for a while but for a long time, there is no minister who should lead this great enterprise. And finally, here we are today as we discuss here, the committees are discussing this new minister. I would like, on behalf of the Social Democrats from this booth, to order just a few things about this new minister we're going to have to vote on this afternoon. In fact, according to the towering stories, and it's not the first minister that's like that in this government in the end, it turns out that the prime minister chose there's no one else, so I'm going to take this or maybe as part of some larger package. I don't want to speculate about anything, of course, because this, this is just culinary stories, but I can't help but think that there are truths in them. Also in light of the crisis and the Russian aggression on Ukraine, it is the minister who has very, very strong Russian ties. So during his business life he worked very closely with Russian capital, perhaps working together today, I don't know or can argue, but in light of what's going on in the world, he really doesn't leave a good taste in his mouth. It is also the minister who left behind an impressive, impressive list of completed projects. Of course, I say that ironically because it turns out that no project that this minister has reached has been completed. I'll remind you only of Srđ, remind you of the Coopers who are already mentioned here, etc. At the same time, it's also the minister who has a questionable relationship with workers, workers, employees, here's an example of the hydropower plant, where he literally cheated on the workers. I think that's what my colleague Bencic mentioned before me. He got them to sign one contract, and after a year, he gave everyone a nice job. It is a man, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of Croatia that is a man who needs to lead the reconstruction, that is a man who will sit in the government, that is a man who does not become a great trust in me at least. And in such a difficult situation as we have geopolitically, I think it's very important to have a functioning government. To have a government where every minister at each meeting can expect the DORH to knock on his door and take him away all but a non-functional government, and I fear that by choosing this minister, and apparently most of them will choose him we will not contribute to the stability of that government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83205	We are going to the 13th debate, dear colleague Oreskovic on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83206	I will talk about the problems that can arise in the implementation of the seized property of Russian oligarchs as part of the sanctions package against the aggression of Putin in Ukraine. I express an unequivocal condemnation of Russia's attacks on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and support all efforts by the international community in creating pressure to stop Putina in further destruction of other people's property. However, all of us here have a primary duty and responsibility to the state of Croatia and to all its citizens. It is our job to take care of our interests and find solutions to our national problems, and I want to draw attention to them in this speech. In no way am I questioning the legitimacy of these sanctions, it is a civil and human response to this crisis. However, I find it controversial that they will be carried out in Croatia and be held accountable by someone who may not have a reputation for the person and the official in whom we can trust. In a few hours, two of us will get another new minister who will, for many reasons, be content with the Russian oligarchs and other politically and economically influential Russians even before they even enter office. And how much we can trust him that no one's private interests will be above the public or the interests of the Russian oligarchs with whom he is actively connected and networked. So I ask the question, can we trust that minister at all, and can we trust any other minister and the entire government at all? Can we believe that in the seized assets of the Russian oligarchs they will act without corrupt activities and how we can believe that this will be so when everything this government has done has been marked by corruption. In particular, I am not afraid that the task force will not detect all the assets that should be seized in accordance with the international commitments. I'm afraid that on purpose certain assets will be seized in the wrong way. In fact, although the Law on International Restriction Measures says that no compensation for the implementation of this law can be sought, there is still an exception, which is when a particular action was carried out either intentionally wrongly or with extreme negligence, and here I see the problem and something which can later cost us dearly. Because I wouldn't want my children, that the children of you, that the children of our citizens are paying off and paying off some of them there with cloudy oligarchs, to compensate for the kidnapping that the ministers in which we can't trust right now haven't spent the right way. We haven't really celebrated anything with the judiciary so far, and we really have the worst possible experience with corruption in this government. So far, there has been very little information in the media on the legal aspects of the confiscation of property because it probably counts on the anti-war sentiment of the public, and it counts on the fear of nuclear attacks, and the expected issue is not much of a review. In good faith, I warn that this is not some legal issue that is common and that even for those who come from legal circles there is great knowledge and some extensive practice. I therefore call for caution so that there is no opportunism in the cloud, so that some future generations do not pay off the intentional legal mistakes of Stjepan Curaj and other moral verticals I call on the government, which should also be asked by the Croatian Parliament to publicly publish not only the legal framework of the present and future which will be adopted on the EU but also every single legal basis for confiscation of any property in each case. I also call on all information on which assets were seized and to whom it belonged, with the publication of acts on the basis of which the actions were carried out, to be made publicly available. I also call on her to take care of the quality of the justification and validity of the legal basis in each case and to monitor relevant and judicial practice in these matters. I call for the establishment of cooperation with the EU Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice's department for monitoring the rules and case-law set up at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, as well as with other international bodies that would exchange information and even international proceedings, and to inform both the Croatian Parliament and the public accordingly. Transparency is usually important, and in this case those data available in the data collection may also require a different balance between the confidentiality of data. and the rights of the public to control their authority. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83207	We will now take a break of up to 10 hours and 45 minutes when we continue as we announced by the Law on the Introduction of the EUR. It's 10:00.39. Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's the green-left bloc representative club and respected colleague Bencic. [[You're welcome.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83266	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. Today I am going to talk a little bit about the Russian connections of our too bee minister, Mr Ivan Paladin, and I want to point out immediately that it is not a problem that the future minister is deeply tied through all the projects he has worked with one of the Russian millionaires operating in Croatia, but in the way he has done it, which we can characterise as a typical Russian-Croatian way of taking over and destroying companies and resources that were once owned by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In order to better understand what this is about, I have written down everything Mr. Paladin participated in because it is actually a very complicated network of companies and several projects, large projects that were widely written in Croatia by Kupar, Srdja, the restoration of the palace to Gruž in Dubrovnik, etc. various real estate investments that have all failed. So, our future minister who presents himself as a successful entrepreneur doesn't have any but no successful project behind him. However, he participated together with Mr Sergei Gljadelkin in the destruction of one of Croatia's major low-building hydroelectric power plants. And how was this operation done? 2014 For Sergei Gljadelkin, the negotiations are being conducted by our future minister in taking over Hydropower, the conditions that Mr. Paladin sets for workers to assume that Gljadelkin took over Hydropower is to give up all claims that he has from the title of unpaid salaries and illegally reduced salaries. Mr. Paladin assures them that Mr. Gladelkin will develop a company and many of them sign the agreement in exchange for staying operational. Over the next three years, more than a thousand of them are being fired. 2014 After the takeover by Gljadelkin Hydropower Low Construction Mr. Paladin becomes chairman of the Hydropower Supervisory Board and remains in place until 2017. The same year 2014 Gljadelkin takes over the IGH, and Ivan Paladina becomes the first member of the administration, and then president of the IGH Board. 2015 Gljadelkin founded the Cooperi Laxary Hotels company and appointed Mr. Paladin as director, and then gave him a stake in the company in 2016. This company is setting up a new company Avenue machinery d.o.o. 2016 and this company is crucial for hydropower and for the destruction of hydropower because the company extracted equipment, machines and vehicles of low-building hydroelectric power plants as the most valuable equipment that the hydroelectric power plant actually had that workers in the bankruptcy process would have nothing to charge for. To note, the entire process for low - construction Hidroelectrica is being conducted, a pre-gathering settlement worth 180 million kunas is being approved, many believers remain without their claims. So what are Mr. Sergei Gljadelkin and Mr. Ivan Paladino doing? By mutual contracts between these two companies first hire each other machines, then sell, all of which remains, of course, in the hands of the same Russian millionaire because he is co-owner of both companies and other companies, and after the pre-demand settlements open what? You're out of business, you're out of business. To this day, workers have not received any severance fees, nor will they ever be charged to this day. A criminal application has been filed against the company and the entire administration, which has been loaded on the DORH since 2019. Mr. Paladin remains behind, remains a co-owner in one of these main companies, and this is in the Cupari Laxary Hotels, which is also sold out in large shares to various investors and probably buys a part of the money for it. No such project is Realized, the hydroelectric power is not [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Destroyed, and Mr. Paladin becomes your new minister. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Good crazy!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83346	The third in line on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will be spoken by respected counterpart Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83347	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are indeed in a major crisis. So we have Ukraine that bleeds, a Ukrainian people who suffers a lot, and our heart must always be with those who suffer, with those who are attacked and we do not want to look, we want to stop all those images that we saw here in the Homeland War when we were attacked by the Serbian forces of JNA. Today I'm going to talk about the referendum. Why the referendum? So where a dictator makes his decisions ends up, you know where he ends up, ends up in pits. He ends up in the pits, and that's what we did here, and we have experience with Joseph Broz Tito. So we want a referendum. Why? For democracy. We want a referendum, and we will not allow individuals to act like bad teachers who take a wet sponge and then we would like 410,000 Croatian citizens who said we want a referendum on the board. We here have political elites that belong to see both left-wings and rulings who say we are the ones who know what is good for you, we are the ones who will explain to you how you should think. So our people are not retarded, so our people have no IQ goldfish to make one lap of their own, and then again, they don't even know where they were swimming at six inches [15 cm] of water. So don't do this to the Croatian people. Prices are wild, but not just for the horror of Ukraine, prices are wild for lockdown, for poorly-led politics. That's what the public needs to say. When I warned you about it, so did we here at the MOST Club when I quoted Professor Dr. Ioannidis from Stanford very clearly said who goes to lockdown we don't fail, and then there were individuals who actually political bots calling us to paralyze on this or on that, and today, miracles, today, agree with all those people who have been saying what we've been talking about here for two years. We want a referendum, give us a referendum, let the Croatian people say whatever they want, and whatever we don't like, and that's his right, that's democracy. We do not want to depend on any interest groups or individuals who do things because their view is focused on some pedestals and chairs there in far away Brussels, it is legitimate, too, to understand each other, but the Croatian people must be our first. The Croatian people, the wishes of the Croatian people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are democracy, people. You're trimming these maesters and shadow players over there. We want the Croatian people to wonder, now I'll tell you, here's what. The World Health Organization at the WHO Assembly on December 1st, 2021, thus continuing its shadow processes. On 24 February 2022 in Geneva, 194 Member States agreed that an international agreement on pandemics could be adopted in the future. Of course, Croatia is part of the process, and then, the EU Council on March 3rd, it is fresh, here, there are colleagues who follow very strongly the EU Parliament and I appeal to all of you, so it has made a decision to approve the opening of negotiations for that international agreement on prevention and preparedness of the response to the pandemics. The content of this agreement is completely unclear to the whole public. What concerns us, personally as representatives of HS, and then all of us at the Mosta Club, so the use of this agreement in service of all situations, I quote, more forces that could happen in the future, such as the Covida-19 pandemic, and then say that the consequences of this agreement are the possibility of making decisions at the level of a world organisation. What kind of organization is that, man? Let the government overpower what? The above is therefore a threat to centralisation at the level of a world government, from the risk of losing the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, which is inalienable, indivisible and insufferable. No one will stand above the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's why, a referendum, that here, we gentlemen, raise our hands by two-thirds majority, and then come to your squares, come to the streets of your cities, walk among the citizens, don't be afraid of them. Have some coffee, come out on Saturday night, go to the restaurant, but let the people see what you voted for, here, along with me in HS. No one is above HS, and this is where the Croatian people put us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83417	As the seventh, a respected colleague, Hajdas Doncic, will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83418	Thank you very much, President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The world is changing rapidly, has changed especially in the last 20 days in such a way that probably no one could have expected it. But what we do as Croatia, we have a dysfunctional and powerful corrupt print of the prodigal government di we can all justifiably ask the question whether this government has the capacity to manage and in the peacetime under quotes, let alone in these challenging times. I haven't noticed, and that's what I'm asking the Minister of Economy as head of the Department of Stock Reserves which performs the tasks of a certain law, and now I'm going to quote the Strategic Stock Reserve Act. Therefore, these are administrative, professional and economic affairs related to the creation, financing, use, use and renewal, stressing the renewal of strategic commodity reserves, the provision of storage space for their accommodation and storage, the preparation of the balance sheet proposal another word of the key word "bilities" and the annual programme of strategic stock reserves and supplies as well as other acts of a certain law. I didn't notice the economy minister coming out, I made it clear how many Croatian oil reserves are. Better yet, where are the warehouses? What about the gas at a price about yesterday was about 200 euros per megawatt hour. So according to the current reference market in Austria and where you can see ours, so filling our warehouse would cost about 900 million euros. The question is whether Croatian gas suppliers have enough financial power for such a transaction, so for that refilling, to recharge. Of course, I am not very optimistic that in the next short period there could be a significant fall in the price of gas in Europe and what I see will have to be included in the summer loading of the warehouse either through some state guarantees or through a similar financial mechanism. Furthermore, we can ask what about wheat, corn, in general with a food balance and in a year your prices have increased about a hundred dollars per tonne. So yesterday's price is 350, corn 390,... wheat, the Paris Stock Exchange. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we have enough at least for three to six months, because as I have begun, the future is unpredictable for us. Minister or Prime Minister Plenkovic should actually step forward here in the Parliament first of all, calm the citizens because we are witnessing that various information is coming through the media, different data that definitely upset the citizens. Just take a look at them two lines before the gas stations were the way they were before the day before. I don't remember that being in the 1990s and explaining which, even then, was not, and explaining what the Croatian strategic balance is. What is only perhaps good in this whole story that I hope and believe that European perspectives are clear, are not quite like Croatia because in the European energy mix natural gas is a third, Russian gas is slightly smaller than half, which means that... 16-17% of total energy consumption in the EU is now unfortunately coming from Russia, and according to all relevant data, it is only 2023 if I say a little more gas from the south could come from the south. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also good news for the Croatian non-functional government to prepare a European package of measures aimed at stifling the cost impact as the project was prepared at the time of lockdown 2020... So we can probably expect a European package or a set of energy measures very quickly now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today, at the top of the agenda, we are also talking about the Law on the Euro, is this, but is it all connected, is it myth, reality, opportunity, threat? What are the open questions, the price correction with this inflationary blow coming up, so your price correction is everywhere in the countries that introduced the euro ranged from 0.2% to 0.3% a year. I have not noticed the determination of neither the government nor the CNB to make this clear and to actually protect citizens and businesses, so all of us with one consistent law. Secondly, what will be the political economy of the monetary union, which if further fiscal centralisation occurs, so these are all issues to which the government and the resolution minister should answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83508	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Pavic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83509	Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to look at what the government is doing in today's free speech on behalf of the HDZ. We've heard enough what the opposition thinks it's doing, let's see what the government is doing specifically for the citizens. We have the last two weeks of war in Ukraine, the world's geopolitical scene has changed absolutely. It was, the Croatian people showed absolute solidarity with the Ukrainian people precisely because we are the only EU and NATO member who felt aggression just 30 years ago. But just for the sake of all these effects, the government was able to react especially to the growth of prices and fuel and energy and food and the most basic products before this crisis. We have seen that even without this war and without this crisis, we have had a rise in energy prices primarily because of the disrupted value chains and also the growing Asian market and the reduction in gas and oil supply to European countries. The government had previously ured and brought in, introduced a regulation limiting prices and gasoline and diesel fuels by transferring costs to distributors. Also, an increase in prices on the world market of several hundred percent, we know that the price of oil has increased 120, and over $135 per barrel has led to the government bringing in a package of 4.8 billion kuna just weeks ago. It wants to limit the price of gas to 20%, electricity to 10%, which provides for a supplement for our pensioners, for them 721,000, those who are the poorest. The idea is to limit the collection, and to those who are socially threatened that the state is that with what they have grown and guaranteed minimum compensation and here is former Minister Murganic, she knows how much she has struggled to grow the personal disability that is now 1,750 kuna. At a meeting Monday, so just a few days ago, the government adopted a excise duty regulation where some of the costs that were on oil price distributors so far had to be transferred to the budget, so with these 4.8 billion kuna, an additional 150 million kuna had been taken over, but it also limited the margin and fixed the total margin for traders to have no mixing with oil derivatives prices. For the next 90 days, she managed to secure a more stable, stable price and for the next month, retail prices and gasoline and diesels and blue diesel for our farmers were fixed. So the retail price of a liter of gasoline is $12.19, if it hadn't been for these government measures would have been 13.28, if it hadn't been for measures, a liter of diesel would have cost 13.71 kuna, and so 12.53 kuna. What matters is that the fixed and maximum total margin that oil dealers can use is fixed and maximum. And what does the opposition do? Of course, the role of the opposition is to be correct, but we see that here they are being raised and they are being rejected from criminal charges against their colleagues, against Mr. Katičić, which is enough to say that there is absolutely no impact on the judiciary. Today we will discuss the Law on the Euro, the government is engaged in international relations until, let's say, the opposition in Zagreb gas prices have gone wild if we can, or the mayor Tomašević didn't buy gas in time. It is therefore clear what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing, works for the citizens as seen in the polls that support him and, according to the latest survey, the HDZ is also the first choice of citizens of the City of Zagreb. It is also visible that today we will vote the new minister, we are too much time for Ukraine, we have a class called future minister who is Russian... He doesn't know where he's shooting, and HDZ's working. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83575	We are now going to the 11th debate, the club of representatives of HSS and RF, respected colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83576	Good afternoon. I'd like to say something today about hypocrisy. We've had opportunities to see, so here from this last speech, how they're accusing the opposition, seeking internal enemies, praising the great successes, the prime minister is indeed planning on the crisis, in the war, on other people's misfortunes, and asking us today in the assembly to sign a conclusion in which we literally need to and as an opposition to clap on Prime Minister Plenkovic, it's so-called. We particularly welcome the government's activity if you haven't noticed that sentence in that conclusion. Let's all particularly welcome the government's activity from today, so as long as it suits Plenkovic. He's looking for internal enemies, those are all those who dared to say something critical to him in this great geopolitical crisis. At the same time today, we get the most likely Minister Ivan Paladin who has no problem working with the Russian oligarchs, no problem being connected to Russian capital, no problem destroying domestic companies along with these Russian tycoons, and we will not be asking questions here, we will not be asking what our relations with Russian capital are, there is nothing to ask if there is anything on the board when I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic a question just now, so just specify with which Russian companies the future minister is connected that we have this information, he did not want to answer. It's about internal enemies and those who have hidden intentions. It has already been mentioned here, so it is about Ivan Paladin, who owned several of the companies that participated in the destruction of the Croatian firm, meaning the Low-Build Hydroelectrics and that in the way that i.e. Even more paradoxical at the moment, almost all Croatian companies are being destroyed, and what we can prevent at this moment from the new bankruptcy law that is currently under discussion, but this HDZ does not want to prevent. So the company was destroyed as already mentioned by my predecessors in a way that workers who hadn't received their salaries clapped and welcomed a new investor from Russia who came along with our future Minister Paladin and gave up their claims that through some other companies the same one, this same Russian means pulling out of that company's machinery, equipment, means value and then declared bankruptcy. To prevent this is not enough just not to vote for the future minister but to change the bankruptcy law because it is the same practice, it is nothing new, the same principle was with Dioki, Dina, Kamenski, here with Orljav, which will now have problems because they call it problems, a state-owned company where workers are literally on the road hungry and tired, because they did not collect their salaries, did not collect their claims, have no severance fees. The same minister, who is with the workers in Croatia, has been acting so that the shovels are thrown out of the company, so they are not being paid their wages, now coming, here he is, in that position where they will have to talk to the workers of the Orjava, it will probably be very hard and difficult for him. But with Russian capital, we'll have good relations and that won't be a problem, but I refuse, colleagues and colleagues, and I urge you to refuse to applaud the government of Andrej Plenkovic, sign his MPs, especially welcome the government's activities, so-called, and not to use this situation, tragedy and war for your own gain and our own benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83606	Thank you. We are going to the 8th debate of the IDS Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83607	Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. For the last 10 days, the world's main topic is war in Ukraine, uncertainty, fear, panic and all that unfortunately war carries. We don't know what's going to happen any further and how long it's going to take, but what we can only hope for is that this horror will end as soon as possible. The war in Ukraine as we could expect will affect the economy and it is already happening. The rise in energy prices is currently happening and prices are rising from day to day. We have again an energy market crisis like the one we had in the late '70s. Prices of crude oil on the world market are wildest in the last 10 years, natural gas prices in Europe are three times higher than the day before Russia's aggression into Ukraine. The black forecasts of wildlife prices, unfortunately, are already a black reality and what is definitely worrying is that along with the duration of the war, they will grow and price. It should be made clear that after more than 50 years. We have an energy crisis that will also affect energy, and it will logically spill over on other branches, which our citizens will feel in a great way and already feel in their skin. So we need an emergency reaction because it just can't go on like this. Reduced excise duties and margins are some sort of solution, but that's all so-called. an emergency fire strike, a necessary evil to stabilise business and normal life in the country, but it's like putting out a fire with a water bottle. At present, we can also describe the measures of our government against what is happening. I repeat what I said a month ago, a serious country cannot maintain the standard of citizens at some level by freezing prices. It's a temporary measure that currently has effects, but it has nothing or almost nothing in the long run. And instead of seeing some concrete measures, some concrete plans, let's hear some vision of the government that in this really challenging situation will help citizens, somehow and as soon as possible to improve the standard that is getting worse every day. We keep hearing about how the aid measures are being prepared, how the measures are being helped on the table, so as to make it as easy as possible for our fellow citizens, it means everything is being prepared, but in particular nothing, and that's the problem. There is nothing concrete that could affect the better lives of all our citizens in the long term. The measures are running late, and that's something this government can't escape from. We've been listening to words for over a month, and there's no parts anywhere. And I absolutely can't believe that they're not aware in the government that people are afraid more and more every day, they're afraid that they're going to pay for directors, they're afraid of how much budgets they're going to stay after they pay for these same directors that are growing from month to month, how they're going to buy food, clothes, feed the family, and I don't want to talk about it to shine fear, but to react urgently. The citizens literally patch up the end, and that is unfortunately Croatian reality. We must be aware that much will depend on the duration of the war in Ukraine, but we have no right to wait, we need an immediate new turn that will leave a concrete mark. The government needs to plan immediately to enable employment growth, how to enable wage growth, and how to make our country attractive to foreign investment because we have potentials, but obviously we have no plan to use that potential. Everything else is short-term solutions that we have witnessed for years that have currently solved something, but the main problems remain. I therefore urge Minister Maric to do everything in his power to move forward with a new cycle of tax reform that was not planned this year, but it is necessary and urgent because it is what Croatia needs today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83655	12th debate, SDSS Representatives' Club and a respected fellow Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83656	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The world is occupied by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the universal political, economic, media, cultural, and military mobilization of what we call the West, and never the danger of world peace and the danger of the use of nuclear weapons was greater than today, not in times of the most severe, so-called. Cold war. The collapse of the international order of war-dwelling Yugoslavia and the turning of this collapse into a state of conflict and chaos, in other places in the world, makes it, today's world in many difficult to manage. Especially today when he is strengthened in coordinated and harmonised management needs, both because of the world's order of peace and especially because of the survival of the Earth's biosphere. A thousand scientists, natural and social sciences from 195 countries filed this year's report on the state of our biosphere. At the end of February of this year, he was presented on the UN Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change, Secretary General Antonio Guterres said after familiarising himself with the content of this Report that we and our biosphere leave us to die if we are late with action to stop global warming. Here's a few of the scariest messages from that report. 3.5 billion people already live in conditions of high-grade vulnerability to climate change, air and soil warming, droughts, warming of the sea, floods, melting of the ice cap, and half of the world's population suffers from a severe shortage of world water, fresh water. Half a million people each year are exposed to serious flood effects, and a billion of those living by the coast will be exposed to it by 2050. Even if we keep the heat rise below 1.6 degrees Celsius by the end of this century until 2100, and we're already at 1.1 Celsius. About 8% of agricultural land would be unusable. Maintaining the survival of nature at global level is highlighted in this Report, depending on the conversion of 30 to 50% of land, fresh water and oceans. Today, only 15% of the country is protected, 21% of fresh water and 8% of the ocean. In order to stop this process, adaptations that need to be more vigorously budgeted are needed, whether to moisturize soil, protect against floods, greening of cities or greening of crops and where animals are inhabited. So in order for this flow of self-destruction to dry, and the droughts to decrease, it is necessary to achieve the goal of eliminating inequality, poverty, discrimination, exploitation and wars because exactly where they are present and climate change are the most present. If we want to stop this process of self-destruction, it is necessary to restore and strengthen the common international mechanisms of combating climate change and international forums for reconciliation, co-decision and joint action. So exactly the opposite of what we're facing today. We need to have the co-responsibility of the equal, not the domination of the powerful and those who produce chaos. What I'm saying is not pacifist morality, it's a realistic advocate of survival. We in Croatia must provide alternative energy sources and thus achieve a double goal. As a first measure, to combat the bad influences and shortages of high energy prices and their acceleration by climate change. One way is to turn to fast, strong and wide use of solar panels for households, institutions, public debate and public lighting and all other buildings that do not require great.../incomprehensible/... energy of great power. It is similar with agriculture and food production. And in the end, Everything says we'd be like a little country [[Intruder: Thank you.]] /incomprehensible/... to advocate politics [[Intruder: Thank you.]] reason and responsibility. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83698	We are going to the 4th debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia, will be spoken by the esteemed colleague Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u83699	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of HS, we at the Justice Club of Croatia feel that we are not here to conduct an investigation, but to take responsibility and give critical consideration and to be a just legislator and point to the problems that the executive and judicial authority should solve, so I will show you two concrete examples, this here is Ivan Andrijanic. It's a guy from Vinkovac, this is his medical records, this is what he looked like after he was processed at a celebration that took place on November 21st 2021, and then nothing happened after that. The man asked for a few days, the man asked for medical help along with his cousin, was beaten up by seven people in Old Jankovci, I went to him on November 29th, and on November 30th, so 9 days after the event, the MUP acted. He checked into the hospital at 2:00 a.m., hospital reported to the MAP at 2 and 35. 9 days and my visit to him, the press conference was supposed to have, that the police of seven, eight people who beat him brought them to the three, kept them in custody for about a month, allegedly, and then let them all go to you and that's status quo, nothing. It's an example of the one I personally participated in, and I have papers, so if anyone's interested in looking at them, go ahead. Example two, I don't have pictures because I thought you'd be here is Mr. Krunoslav Katicic from HDZ. I reported him 11.10.1921 to the DORH because he was the State Secretary at the Ministry of State Property and I kept quiet about it, waiting for what should happen to happen, which is to be done by the State Administration in the way it should be done. This is a criminal application on some 5.6 pages, in which I am clearly proving that Mr. Katičić was the secretary of state at the time that he and Mr. Goran Maric and Mrs. Nini Obuljen Koržinek visited by Mr. Paolo Sfeci, Mr. Nikša Bratoš as president of the Croatian Music Union, myself and some lawyers and we warned him that the catalogue of Southton did not enter into the conversion mass and that there was a CERRP solution of 28.10.2016, this solution of CERRP says that the catalogue of Croatia Records is actually the property of the state. It's a solution issued by the state agency. We warned him that the state of Croatia loses 10 million kuna a year, I happen to do this job, so I know that there is an old and new catalogue, the old catalogue of income from collective rights carries almost 2/3 of the money, so if it comes from someone 15 million kuna, 10 million kuna is money that is lost annually in the state budget, by direct decision by Mr Katičić who did not want to act. We didn't ask him to arrest anyone, we didn't ask him to do anything illegal, we just asked him to put a restraining order against the court. And what do we have? We have, after all, that after our warning, after the CERP's solution, after the first verdict by the power of power, after the second final judgment, after the Constitutional Court refused anything. If anyone needs to be completed, they'll come to a SWAT team. There's nothing going on here but I've got a decision within weeks that the DORH refuses my criminal application. Example 1 Ivan Andrianic waited 98 days because someone tried to kill him, so it was qualified. And within 77 days, the DORH knows that despite the court's decisions, despite the CERRP's resolution, despite the opinion of the DORH Constitutional Court, Mr Katičić is innocent, regardless of what 80 million kuna ended up in private pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89145	Last item: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please submit a report to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr Robert Jankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89146	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 1 March 2022 the written request of MP Darko Horvat submitted on 25 February 2022, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that, on 19 February 2022, the incompatible duty of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property and in accordance with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has filed a request for re-behaving as a representative. The commission also discussed Darko Horvat's request submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 February 2022 for the term of office to stand still in accordance with Article 14(1) of the law with the date of the activation of the parliamentary mandate. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Darko Horvat elected on the HDZ list in the 3rd constituency began on 22 July 2020 because of the incompatibility of the office of Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property as set out in Article 9 of the Law and that his deputy Ljubomir Kolarek, with the same day, began acting as deputy MPs. As Darko Horvat submitted a written request in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Law for the suspension of the term of office of the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the committee found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the representative's term of office of representative Darko Horvat ceased for 8 days from the date of submission of the written request. The commission also found that Darko Horvat submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office in office and that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law, the conditions laid down for the start of the stay of Dark Horvat's parliamentary mandate and the continuation of the conduct of MP Ljubomir Kolarek. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 votes for and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament propose a decision to suspend the parliamentary mandate and start a term of office for MPs. On March 5th, 2022, the stay of MP Darko Horvat's term of office ends because of the termination of his incompatible duties and on March 5th, 2022, the standstill of Darko Horvat's parliamentary mandate begins on a personal request. Secondly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 1 March 2022 the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Elvis Duspara from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Marin Miletic of the representative in the Croatian Parliament before the Municipal Court in Zagreb Business Number K-472/19 for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Marin Miletic is a representative of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the MPs. A mandate-immunity committee based on the provision of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against MP Marin Miletic shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Elvis Duspara of Zagreb, who is headed before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb Business Number K-472/19 for the criminal offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Explanation. The commission has taken a principled view that in the case of private prosecutors, it will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of approval. However, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, authorisation should be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings, as well as for a court which conducts the criminal proceedings in order to enable him to exercise his jurisdiction independently and independently under the Constitution and law. In fact, the position of the commission is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the mandate, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for the representatives to act as their regular representative, thereby affecting the work of the Croatian Parliament. The criminal proceedings may continue after the term of office has expired, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. And third, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on March 1st 2022 the request of the co-author of the subsidiary prosecutor of the Association of Friends of the City of Dubrovnik to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mate Frankovic of the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 291(2). Penalty law. Mate Franković is a representative of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the MPs. The Commission has established that the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime is a solution of the KP-US-2/2022 as of 5 January 2022, pursuant to Article 206(1), paragraph 4. The law on criminal proceedings dismissed the criminal application of the Dubrovnik Society of Friends against Mate Frankovic. The Commission shall, on the basis of the provision of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure unanimously propose to the HS the adoption of the following decision, "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor of the Association of Friends of the City of Dubrovnik for the offence of abuse of the positions of powers under Article. No. 291st century 2. The Penal Code.’ The interpretation, the practice so far, or the principled position of the commission, is that, at the request of the DORH, as an independent and independent judicial body, which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, as well as a court which conducts criminal proceedings in order to enable it to exercise its jurisdiction independently and independently on the basis of the Constitution and the law. However, in the case of private prosecutors, which is mainly about the criminal acts of libel and insults as well as in cases where the injured person is placed as a subsidiary prosecutor at the place of a state attorney or has found that there is no basis for the initiation and conduct of the criminal proceedings, the commission has taken the view that HS will propose a denial of the authorisation. In particular, the Commission's view is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the mandate, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual of the conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as any action that would have to be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for a representative to act as a representative and to influence the work of the assembly. The criminal proceedings may be initiated and conducted after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89147	We've got a debate, it's on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Right now, I'm not going to fill out all the time, but I want to talk about two different topics in two separate speeches, and that's why I signed up for final. Individually so you can replicate it for me. ... First I'm going to say something about the issue of immunity in general because it's become a subject that's been interesting lately, and then I'm going to talk about Mr. Horvat's case afterwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue of immunity of individual officials is a very serious issue and it is necessary to constantly review the provisions and practices, but most importantly to implement the rules regardless of the discussions. If the Constitution or the laws give authority to decide something, then it is the responsibility of one who decides to do so in accordance with what he thinks is right and when it comes to immunity. I note that immunity protects no one from prosecution and that even one who has immunity will respond when his immunity ceases, either by stripping his immunity, or by suspending his duty. So far, only Josip Broz Tito and King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic have been on their duties for life. In the 2008-2011 term, the second day after I took the oath, it was decided on the immunity of Branimir Glavas. The HDZ accepted the DORH's request to remove immunity for the follow-up process, but declined the DROH's request to remove immunity for detention. So neither the war crimes charge was enough to support the removal of immunity at the request of the DORH. Also, the same should be said for the record, another precedent was made in the mandate, for the first time the immunity of the MP was removed because of a private prosecutor's suit. The defendant was Željko Jovanovic and the private prosecutor HDZ. In addition to these two cases, the Assembly held established practices that, at the request of private prosecutors, no immunity was removed and that immunity was removed at the request of the DORH. We questioned this practice in April 2017 because of a specific case and defined a new position, when deciding whether it is necessary to conduct proceedings against MPs as long as his term of office or can be done after the term of office and whether a representative will have a fairer process while he is a representative or when he withdraws from politics. And after that position in cases where the DORH requested the removal of immunity we voted for their demands, the exception was one case where the MIP directly decided on a request from the DORH for detention, and the assembly subsequently confirmed whether it was a request that had come to the constitutional station and then we pointed out that the DORH had requested the removal of immunity for detention, and that at the end of the court had not filed at all a request for detention. In addition to the EU I am also deciding as a member of the DSV, it is the procedures that the DORH is pursuing against the judges. In just one case, I voted against removing immunity for detention because I felt that the request was so badly explained that it was not at all like him to come to court. I stayed in the minority even though I wasn't alone, but eventually the court rejected that request. Unlike the representatives I meet in the assembly and with whom I am sometimes a political ally, and sometimes a rival here is a person I have never seen before in this and in all other cases I have been guided by the criteria whether I think something is right or not, and I am aware of the possible and negative interpretations of that attitude, but it is therefore important to have the same criterion for everyone. As regards the case of members of the Government, the DORH acted in accordance with the applicable laws and, if the laws change, the DORH will act in accordance with them, but the limits of powers and balance of power of various branches of government set up by HS. And now they're set up, but they're set up so that virtual immunity doesn't exist. If every DORH request is granted, then the immunity de face is gone, there's just a hint that maybe the police won't knock at six in the morning but that it'll happen another day in another hour. If, however, any request by the DORH is being reconsidered and considered, then the question is raised in that institution. But every, and especially repressive institution must be prepared to question its work. The attorney's office is certainly in court, but in cases such as the current one needs to be questioned before. And then when it's estimated that there are no elements to initiate the procedure and when the evaluations are done. And that's why we stay at the bet that there's still no automation. Immunity doesn't protect against prosecution. It will be spent at any time unless you are a life-long president or king, and in a democratic country there is no such thing. As for the list of immunity officials, we have no objection to members of the government being in the same status as MPs, including that their immunity is being decided by a parliament that shows confidence and not by the government. In this way, what the President of the Republic warns about could not happen in theory, which is that the discretionary decision of a body that does not have such democratic legitimacy of the state in one morning practically leaves it without leadership. Although many have misunderstood to interpret it as one kind of attack on the DORH thing is quite the opposite. It is about protecting the DORH that it assesses the political consequences itself, that it is not necessary to calculate politically, and that it can do its job even more independently and independently than before. If it deems it necessary to initiate the DORH procedure against someone, it can trigger it without political calculations, and political calculations in that case remain at the assembly and representatives. As regards the specific proposal by the MIP to remove immunity, or for approval, for not granting the approval of the application for Mr Frankovic and Miletic, we will support the proposal with the basis of the practice so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89149	Thank you, Mr. Bauche. Now they're following individual debates, and I don't know if we need to wipe out the pay phone, we don't need to, okay? Then, in an individual debate, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, here you are. [[Thank you, Mr. Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89150	As for Mr Horvat's request to activate and settle his mandate, the MIP acted fully in accordance with the law. However, there is another dimension around which it would be good to say something. First of all, I do not want in any case to plead against Mr Horvat, the reasons for his resignation, or the reasons why he put his mandate on hold again. And what I'm saying is I hope that in this case, according to previous interpretations, the institutions have the right to 6 + 6 did not affect it. But if I'm not mistaken under the applicable laws, if any of us here present representatives acting in office for more than a year would not have the right to remain in office at 6 + 6. If, if I'm wrong, someone in the replica is denying me because that's why I took an individual discussion. Therefore, in this case it is, and I will repeat it is neither moral nor criticism of MP Horvat. He did what the Professional Services told him to do. You should review the provisions of the law on officials and the Law on MPs and the rights of deputies to, in this case, when a mandate is waiting for you in the assembly, when you have the right to come to the duty that your citizens have chosen to interpret and favour you in order to encourage you de facto that you can put your mandate on hold and that you have no consequences regarding pay, as if you are also in the assembly. That would be, it should be here, highlighted here. I'll read you Article 15a. Law on the rights of government officials. The law of Article 15 of this Act, which is precisely this fee, is the right to, under Article 15 of this Law, not to be exercised by a civil official relieved of his duties because of the earlier existence of facts known to him or who had to be known at the time of his appointment to office, but which he could assume to be an objective obstacle to his appointment for office. I don't know if this provision can be applied in this case, but the fact that someone with a mandate has the right to pay in the Croatian Parliament is also entitled to a fee of 6 + 6. Not wanting to get in a position to moralize, because then someone might be able to moralize me, so I'd better hold on to it. I would like to point out that this provision should then be brought into line with the spirit of time, adapted so that it is not encouraged and not interpreted so that someone has the right to go on vacation after a year in the assembly, let someone else go for 6 months or a year because he has a year's salary, and then in a year he has a right to 6 + 6. This would be one prepetum of mobile compensation, which I am sure was not the legislator's intensities, and especially not a fellow in MOST when they proposed to amend this law in 2017. Thank you. I'm giving up the final.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89151	We have a replica of the respected representative Robert Jankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89152	So, the replica is essentially to praise the thoughts of my colleague, Bauka, is all these doubts whether to automatically decide on the Mandate-Immunity Commission in spite of previous practice, or to say so by arbitration, or whether we are going into the DORH's demand as we could in the case of Stjepan Kovac, which we detained in August on the basis of the MIP decision, and the second day of MIP, we try to make a consensus on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, as well as members of SDP, HDZ, Social Democrats, Homeland Movement, Independent Zekanovic, because we are sensitive, and so it is a matter of our colleagues, which is a difficult matter of life on which we have to give a proposal, and during the summer period and decide, therefore, we are still trying to make bigger decisions with regard to the problems that we can continue to the public, and we can make more important decisions about the issue of the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89153	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89154	I must say that I fully understand the dilemmas and I brought them out here myself if there is indeed a danger if you will question every request of the DORH then you are also questioning the fact and trust in that institution. And if you're going to operate with automation then you're turning the assembly into a mailbox, then the sense of immunity as such is lost. They say those who know better than I do that parliamentarians have the immunity to prevent a special opposition from experiencing power over those who can be political opponents to them, but if they go for automation, then there's no more of it. Therefore, the sensitive question on the one hand can be seen as an additional benefit, and on the other hand it can be seen as protecting the relatively normal functioning of the state. This theoretical chance that theoretically exists for the prime minister and five ministers to face the same day under attack without each other's body deciding is one kind of danger. And if she's bigger than this one to make arbitrarily decisions, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89155	Time. The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk. I'm not gonna go about right, it's not my area and I wouldn't be happy to interpret what you said at all, but here's one need to tell you that it's 20.00 hours when we look at that side there is none of your colleagues or anything. It's sad for me, and somehow I had this need to tell you that we stayed to listen to you and she would have left alone, but she didn't give me Hope's telling us our Arsen story, so we're not leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89157	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89158	Okay, I promise you colleagues I'll cut out this speech of mine for YouTube and send it to everyone who isn't present from my club to listen to him for punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89159	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Nikola Baradić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89160	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk. One small reminder, Biljana Ganja member of the SDP is 2016. she entered the assembly as a replacement for Defence Minister Predrag Matic and was the only one of all MPs and MPs from the 8th convening assembly who, due to two days' work in the assembly, had the right to the privilege of 6+6 which allowed her to receive full salary for the first six months, and for the next six months half of her parliamentary salary. By then, MP Biljana Gaja said herself that she would use this legal right and that she must live on something. So I definitely agree with you that the regulations should be settled as you pointed out in your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89161	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89162	Thank you. I think the original plan is for Mrs. Pants to stay in the assembly much longer, but then you made a deal with the Bridge, so she had to leave because we came back from the government, if we stayed in the government she would have stayed for four years, so it wasn't her fault, they were the Bridge and HDZ. Right? As for the current arrangement, it would not be possible, it would have to be in the assembly for three months, but then it would not have entered the assembly because the obligations it would have had under the Law of Conflict of Interest are far greater than what it would have achieved in HS. So she acted on the basis of what was then in force, and it was evident that there was some illogicality. And I have one more sentence to say in her defense, and it seems to me that she had to give up something that she had the right to do as part of the Labour Ministry program or something, I didn't quite remember. And you know which colleague didn't want to go into the assembly at all because of that? The last on the SDP and HNS list in the 4th election unit, Stjepan Curaj, the one who was supposed to be the minister, did not enter the assembly that year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89163	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u89165	It's important that HDZ is always guilty, and SDP is right, yes, and the Bridge. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue work tomorrow morning from 9.30 A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activity in Hungary. Good night. The session was interrupted at 8:11 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u94667	Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia on the situation in Ukraine. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Party of Pensioners and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the National Party of Reformists, the Club of National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, I give the following conclusion: 1. A report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the situation in Ukraine is hereby adopted. 2. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported in the report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the situation in Ukraine, which relate to humanitarian, health, financial, banking, energy, transport and defence sectors and other sectors. 3. It also calls on the government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the proposals of the representatives presented in the debate. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? A total of 129 MPs and MPs, 128 for and one abstentions, voted, thus concluding that it was proposed by representatives' clubs. Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019. The law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 236. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 is hereby adopted. Law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, 119 favoured, 7 abstentions, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95307	Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. So, a colleague, Pavliček, suggested that all decisions taken by the head office of HS. We have proposed an amendment not to do this, however, for reasons which the ruling majority's representatives have also said in reason, but we have proposed a compromise mechanism, which is that staff decisions come into force immediately, that they may last 60 days and that within those 60 days, the competent working body of HS can confirm them and give them the opportunity to last longer. In this way, we would also be satisfied with the operationality of having a body that in the pandemic can make decisions immediately and which take effect immediately, those which are legal, not those that we consider to be unconstitutional and we have criticised, but also to ensure the control of parliamentary these decisions because a lot of this is about human rights that are limited, whether proportionate or in the opinion of some, disproportionate. So our proposal was something that we think should look like in this situation, and in this sense we join the criticism of those who think the Staff is a political body, that it makes political decisions and that there is no control, but that control cannot be such as to fully tie his hands, that it can't do anything because otherwise we won't have a body that manages the crisis. I think it's such a radical suggestion that de facto everything is decided by the Parliament you go to the hands of those who say, who rightly say it's not good and actually go to HDZ. We wanted with a mild proposal to give you an opportunity to correct it, however, you, colleague Pavliček, refused, and we are not asking for a vote on this amendment, we withdraw it so that however HDZ would not iron out that we and you in this way... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95308	Okay. It's all right. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act which the Government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 119 MPs voted, 11 were for, 31 abstention, 77 against so that the amendment did not get needed... Sorry, so the law didn't get the number of votes needed. Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2020, the applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 125 MPs and deputies voted, 113 for, 11 abstentions and 1 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95569	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. We are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for ten minutes to point out once again that Croatia is not ready to enter the Eurozone. In fact, all economic indicators place us at the very beginning of the EU, we are the most recent GDP per capita in the EU, we are the most recent personal spending per capita in the EU, public debt is at 82% of GDP, we are currently on some 66% of the EU's average development. To enter the Eurozone and change the national currency in times I fear the biggest economic crisis in which the EU is found is truly insane. And there will inevitably be a decline in the standards of Croatian citizens in the first few years, there will be an increase in prices of goods and services, and pensions and wages will not follow. Don't come out like geese in the fog by entering the Eurozone, it wouldn't be the first time we've done it in our history, implement structural reforms, put order into finance. When we stand on our feet, let the people decide on it in a referendum. Many who confirm this law will cry after several years for Croatian kuna and you will make a huge mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95570	The apartment is approved. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95571	Thank you, Mr. President. Here on behalf of the Focus Club and the Independent Representatives I appeal to all MPs and all to simply consider once again how much the introduction of the euro actually benefits us. In fact, we are now at a time when the market is very unstable, energy prices are jumping, raw materials prices are jumping, iron has only jumped in a week, not to talk about steel and other raw materials and everything that is imported or exported. We need a stable currency, the euro is the second most stable and the second most widespread currency in the world. We already have our savings, real estate prices, car prices, so I think the good part of the MPs have their savings in euros, so this is a natural sequence. Just recently, a friend of mine told me that her company lost about 27,000 kuna in any foreign transaction, especially within the Eurozone, we're talking about a small company, let alone all the bigger ones. If we stay in a system like this, you know who's gonna make the most of it? Banks will profit the most, at every exchange rate. This way, if the wild market is already on the market, if the world market is still nonstop, then at least we have a stable currency and we move forward. And one big plus that I see, the Croats will finally see how bad economic policies have led to the fact that both pensions and salaries comparable in euro will be far, far less than one Austria, compared to one Germany, compared to one Sweden, and we can finally see how much we are actually at the beginning of the EU, and unfortunately I think that we will start even fat, fat longer, long longer here on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95572	The apartment is approved. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95573	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF club in order to conduct additional consultations between the club, but what I can say on my personal behalf is that the HSS in any case supports the introduction of the euro as one of the last stations on Croatia's path to finally joining Euro-Atlantic integration. That's what we all wanted together and wanted when we joined the EU, that's what we wanted back in 1990. when we have determined that we want to be Europe, this is what we will do regardless of all the things that I partially and support that Mr. Pavlovek has spoken, we are not ready for these or those reasons, but I think we will benefit from that because when you enter something that you are not up to, so you buy something more expensive for a cheaper price, and I think that Croatia will benefit from that as a country anyway. Yes, some will not benefit from such benefits as those that have profited from all these years on the differences in the course. We all believe that the kuna is overrated and I welcome that entry as soon as possible. What I was personally afraid of and what we were afraid of in the HSS was that the conversion into the euro would not have caused the exchange rate to be rampant, i.e. that the exchange rate would not have jumped from 7 and a half kuna to about 10, 12. So these were fears, and I hope that this will not happen during this period of transition. So that's if the course is still going to be like this at the conversion itself anyway, I have to say hello. I think that Croatia and all Croatian citizens can benefit only.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95574	And my colleague Skoro is also looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95575	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club For a just Croatia for ten minutes in order to further consult and warn you once again as a financial expert and our minister and the entire Croatian people that the Fair Croatian Club is aware of the obligation that the Republic of Croatia has made by signing the Treaty of Accession of the EU. We are also aware of our obligations to introduce the euro. But we also have to remind once again that the question of the moment is crucial in a lot of things. And you and I, Mr. Minister, know very well that these terms of nominal convergence, so this Mastrician Treaty, which prescribes all the conditions that we have to meet to enter the euro area, are something which is much more rigorous and we are de facto not meeting at this point which is difficult as it is, especially when it comes to price stability and exchange rate stability. Both you and I know well that the Republic of Croatia has led a healthy policy through its National Bank for the past 25 years for granted when it comes to a Croatian course that has firmly tied to the German mark and to the euro. So that's something that suits importers and banks, and it definitely didn't suit investors in material production. And we're entering the euro zone, and our economy, Mr. Minister, is not ready for it. We enter the euro area at a time when global inflation is at work, and you know that inflation will also be significant if we just enter the euro zone without the current situation in the economy. So here we are asking you to consider once again the moment you're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95576	In accordance with Article 293b. We'll keep working. Before I give my word to the Vice-President and Minister today, it is exactly 10 years since we confirmed in the Croatian Parliament the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this contract was ratified on 9.3.2012 unanimously with 136 votes for, so congratulations to the representatives and thanks from the seventh convocation of the Croatian Parliament, given the time in which we live the extremely important achievement of the Republic of Croatia and should be remembered today. I would now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Maric to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95577	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here today is my pleasure to be back here in the Croatian Parliament and present the proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. If we can help a colleague, only the President of the Parliament and my little one, we haven't raised a replica, it'll be easier for you to count this together. As far as I'm concerned. ... Anyway, in a couple of sentences, let's just call it a historical review. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We all know very well, and some of the advocates in the interpretation of the break have naturally referred to our formal entry into the EU, signing the Association Agreement. The President of Parliament has just apostrophe and anniversary of ratification itself and all those steps that preceded. In 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Strategy for the introduction of the euro, which we have spoken many times in the document. It is a more analytical document that seeks to count all of the positive and negative sides of the euro introduction process and we have been doing this all this time and we will continue to act naturally in public space. Because it really is important to look at such an important topic extremely objectively, impartially and truly looking at the overall national interests of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this document very clearly reads and reads that, compared to certain negative sides, when we ask citizens, when we see what happened in other EU Member States that introduced the euro in particular these 7 to which Slovenia, Slovakia, Baltic countries, Malta and Cyprus are normally referred as calling new euro area member states and showing fear or fear of citizens that by rounding prices, there will be some contribution to inflationary movements themselves. Unfortunately, we are currently in recent months, and in the months that follow we are exposed to much higher and greater inflationary pressures that have nothing to do with the process of introducing the euro in the Republic of Croatia, but are exclusively exogenous days as such. We brought in another document a while ago after the Republic of Croatia entered the exchange rate mechanism two RNA2. I'm going to remind you once again in the pandemic's pandemic, and we've speeded up, and I'd say meeting all those criteria that were needed to get into that colloquial waiting room before entering the euro. And I think we can all be on that side together and be satisfied. The teaching of the reason for the break then established the parity of 7,53450 and now we have an obligation as usual to keep all other criteria stable between the other and the course. He can't fluctuate more than 15% up or down. In the vast majority of cases, this parity has proved to have remained that way. However, we cannot know this moment, we will not know before the EU Council's formal decision. So, assuming that 1.1.2023. We are introducing the euro, which is our goal and fundamental element in our order, so after meeting all the criteria, but we have to keep the fence there, and decisions are made between May and July, in July we should know the final decision as such. Otherwise, as we entered the exchange rate mechanism 2 we entered into close cooperation with the European Central Bank or the banking union. Afterwards I believe that through the replicas we will touch the current things, so I will just say that it was not the case, this whole issue of Sberbank Croatia would be wherever and where the weight is and the question is how and if we could resolve it in this way that we are, and I think we will all agree on the benefit and savings, and I would say even more citizens or savings in other banks and the overall financial system. As another document at government level, the national exchange plan defines 6 co-ordination committees and one under the authority of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development relating to consumer protection. Consumer protection is I would say the common denominator of all of this, which I will present today, among other things, in the law itself. The Office of the Prime Minister as regards consumer information, i.e. citizens and the entire CNB communication strategy on the exchange of money, and the Ministry of Finance in Part Three, one concerning legislative adjustments, the adaptation of the general government or the adjustment of the financial system. The work on the Euro Law was started on that trail. The euro law was passed at the government on September 16th, '21, after which a public consultation took place, was carried out in the full of that legislation, so the proposal was January 17, '22. The public presentation, the public consultation started, until February 15th, a total of 128 comments received, each and every law and act requires is carefully elaborated and explained why something can or cannot be included in the law itself. And let me now, of course, in the rest of the time to focus solely on the bill's proposal, 97 articles, I believe that you read it carefully and that today's debate is only one in a series, of course this is the first reading, we will be and, and in the second reading, but I would say it anyway in a series of things that are needed in public space and that is in some way both the tasks and the responsibilities and of this high home that we contribute further through our debate to the approximation and clarification of all possible misunderstandings and any questions that our citizens have regarding the exchange of kuna euros, is that what we have said many times, so I will repeat now. For every Croatian citizen, this process is related, so there is no one to be excluded and to whom this process will not apply. ... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 10 parts, general provisions, rules to recalculate monetary statements of value, supplying money to kuna for cash money, double circulation, thanks to colleagues for warning me because I used recently dual, sorry, double circulation, double presentation, application of the principle of continuity of legal instruments, budgets and financial plans and all that we will also represent this year, bodies authorized to oversee this law, infringements, and transitional and final provisions. The basic provisions of this law lay down 5 principles, the basic principles on which all the provisions of the bill are based. First and foremost is the principle of protecting consumers, the second is the principle of banning unwarranted price hikes, although I will immediately put one particular fence there, I believe that through replicas we will also elaborate each other, but in a way that we would still say what we would say, I would say as concretely as possible, as difficult as this term is. Third, the principle of continuity of legal instruments, then the principle of efficiency and economics, and the principle of transparency and information. As regards these principles and rules, the draft law therefore contains general rules on the application of the euro in the Republic of Croatia according to which the amounts are referred in kunas in legal instruments, sublaws, registers and registers from the date of introduction of the euro are considered amounts in euro with the application of the fixed rate of conversion and in accordance with the rules for recalculation and rounding. In addition, the draft law contains general rules for the recalculation and rounding of prices and other monetary statements of value. Monetary statements of value are recalculated using a fixed conversion rate, I was just talking about it in accordance with the rules for recalculating and rounding by regulation. To simplify this part, so we're talking about me saying the simple postulates of mathematics. So regardless of what the conversion rate is going to be this displayed 6 digits, one is on the left-hand side of the decimal point, 7 decimal point and then these 5 decimals that we have on the right-hand side of the decimal point, so when it's recalculating all the prices are going to be rounded up to two decimals, as we have kunas and lipes today, so we're going to have the euro and euro cents tomorrow. The rules of rounding I believe that they are more than clear to everyone, and we have mastered that many days ago, and I would say that in earlier stages of education, even in primary school. A particular part of the bill's proposal is dedicated to supply and replacement issues, supply of cash to the euro, so for the purposes of these pre-deliveries both financial and credit institutions, FINA, mail, and then of course to companies and all those who should, of course, be prepared for the moment when the conversion process itself takes place in 1.1. Otherwise, banks will be able to start the indirect delivery immediately after receiving the euro pre-delivery money themselves from the CNB, respecting the obligation of a previously concluded contract on indirect pre-delivery. For micro-business entities i.e. for business entities with less than 10 workers whose annual income or assets in the previous financial year do not exceed 15 million in one simpler way will be able to supply up to 10,000 euros in cash based on the signed statement. Therefore, as of 1 December this year, consumers and business entities will be able to supply initial coins packages. Since the date of the introduction of the euro, the exchange of cash for the euro's cash, so almost the euro's money, to simplify everything that is in the accounts, will be recalculated with automation. Here we're only talking about the money that's almost paid, so that's what we're talking about. This one, that so-called. the conversion or replacement, 12 months in the business of credit institutions, i.e. banks, in the FINA, in the post office, without compensation for citizens, i.e. business entities. In the Law itself, one of the measures that would in some way stimulate business entities to make the same money available at some point and put it into account is also specified in some way precise and day-by-day. For citizens of such circumstances, however, the fence is one transaction up to 100 bills, or 100 coins. But I'm going to do it again, that doesn't mean it's one and it's final. So, in particular, we can transfer examples to specific kuna amounts, but at the same time, when you do one transaction, you can do the next transaction in a few minutes, but after one transaction to those 100 kuna bills, or 100 euro coins. The date of introduction of the euro is the date on which the double optic period begins. Two weeks from 1.1, so up to 14, i.e. 15, so 14 at midnight, the double optic is in effect, which means that in those first 2 weeks can still be paid in kunas, the simple return is actually in euro, except, except in some situations in Croatia, we may at first focus on our islands or other areas, not only does geographical diversity matter, but, among other things, it is important that we leave one room that if some technical element of the pre-delivery is not delivered to a particular company or sales place in time, there is still this possibility of exemption. From that day on, after 2 weeks of double this, optics only and exclusively of the euro. A key measure to protect consumers in the process of introducing the euro is to double the price of goods, services and other monetary statements of value. This obligation materialises the application of the principle of banning unwarranted price increases and, once again, it is very clear that it is not easy to define this notion of an unwarranted price increase because we ourselves know that it is not only a conversion that affects the price of products or services as well as tax policy does not affect only and exclusively. However, in any case, it is something that we all need to put a great emphasis on together and therefore is one of our key measures and in this Law the obligation of dual or double, again I have made a mistake, a double showing of prices that will be a binding obligation under this Act de facto since 5 September, from the first Monday of September and will last until the end of 2023. So we can say, 4 months before the formal introduction and 12 months after. And here we gave very clear and precise instructions here in the very proposal of the Law, and I will tell you, therefore, in the very preparation of the Law, and when we adopted it at the Government and put it into public consultation, our expectations were that most of the comments would go on this very trail, however, here, I will paraphrasise it without mentioning and bringing the gentleman into the awkward, to call such a situation, because in one of my meetings with representatives of retail chains in the Republic of Croatia, on their part I am commended the Law because essentially contained everything that should be who the bonds are and where there are possible exceptions from double presentation, the obligation to double-represent prices. So let me, here's just a few words on the subject. Therefore, as regards the dual display of prices, business entities double the price of goods and services in a clear, legible and visible and easily visible manner in the commercial premises at the point of sale or on goods or on prices, if they are services, on the website, in the notices that consumers are given, before or during the conclusion of the contract, outside of the business premises and in the distance contracts, in the offer of a permanent medium during advertising in any form offered to sell goods or services or through other forms of price display. 3 are categories of situations and circumstances when we have signed and predicted certain exceptions, i.e. exceptions. The first category of business entities is exempt from the obligation of double presentation by business entities selling goods or services in a specific way in specific locations, where, in the light of the way, for example, such as automatics, limited space such as stand-offs and sales methods, for example, OPGs, kiosks, movable sales, production projects, convenient sales in facilities with a second purpose, dual price presentation would result in higher costs for business entities compared to the benefit that the consumer would have if prices were to be doubled. Here, the most recent example, kiosk, and we know very well, given the palette and the whole set of products, the number of products they have there, and today is not on each product, as such shown neither price in kunas, purely from one, I would say, physical restricted space. So that's the first category. In the second category of exceptions to the dual statement obligation, there are certain forms of price presentation where the dual presentation through those forms would result in disproportionate or disproportionate costs to business entities. In particular, taking into account the fact that the technical adaptation of IT systems would show not only exceptional financial costs, but a long period of time which would allow for a realistic possibility for business entities not to be able to ensure, in a timely manner, a dual display of prices. Here, maybe it's very current examples, we've been very focused on it these past few days, it's totems of gas stations, it's totems of these big columns, so now we don't prescribe the obligation to set up another one of these, we know for ourselves that, among other things, there are fixed panels, TV interfaces for the sale of services, cashier screens and self-service devices for the sale of goods and services, a self-reading device in trade and others. You also have this one, one of the questions was those scales in retail chains. Now I'm going to sum up the third category, and then we're going to explain which actually neutralizes all these, let's call it, exceptions. The third category of exceptions to the obligation to demonstrate double applies to those situations where the price in kuna is already highlighted on the goods themselves and re-printing and placing on the market such items with double prices would constitute unnecessary excessive costs. We're talking about, let's say, a refund on the packaging, so it's already printed, now there's no need to pull that product back and print again. Prices previously printed, for example, on books, we know ourselves on the last page of the book, how much it costs in kunas, other periodical publications, airline ticket prices, etc. Also, business entities, therefore, must note, have a dual obligation to display the total amount in an account that exposes consumers but also other forms and ways of showing prices of which they are not excluded. To sum up all these exceptions, regardless of what you say you come to a store and you elevate bananas in that register and they're only shown there in kunas, you come to the register, so the total amount will be shown in kunas and euros. So, regardless of this one and also at these gas stations, you come to pour fuel, regardless of what the kuna and the euro did not say, the total amount will be included in the account. And that's what we can actually simplify all of these exceptions in a way that in that last account it's going to be as the total amount expressed. And that's what's going to be like I said on the commitment of September 5th of this year. In addition, as regards institutions in the financial sector, particularly banks, important information must be provided in duplicate with credit institutions, credit unions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions and other creditors. One of the more significant principles is the principle of continuity of legal instruments. Therefore, in this light, I will mention that the recalculation of money and the recalculation of the loan contract and the lease agreement of the rules for the adjustment of interest rates has been elaborated on the obligation to inform clients, credit institutions, credit unions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions, financial service providers, and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The most important consumer for recalculation must not be placed in a more unfavourable position than it was not. Again in some way to sum up everything together. Also when recalculating salaries, pensions, social benefits, other fees for citizens and households. As regards supervision, it is, of course, listed in the bill itself, a whole series of state bodies to deal with it, but in parallel with that, of course, we are sure that, mainly when monitoring the unwarranted price hike, civil society associations will also be involved. The entry into force of this law should be eight days after publication in the National Journal and, of course, other than those provisions which enter into force on the day of the publication of the EU Council Regulation establishing a fixed rate of conversion. Therefore, the expected positive effects of the euro introduction are indeed expressed, far outweighing the single costs of the euro-introduction process itself. The euro, as you pointed out in the opening statement of the breaks, has said and removed the transaction costs within the euro area, the dodida among the currency changes, etc. Since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna stop by, thank you all for your attention, but of course I look forward to your replicas and questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95578	27 replicas. We're going first. Dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95579	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I support everything you said in your opening speech and this law in your first reading. I think that through two readings, which is also good, all MPs will have the opportunity to say everything I think about what you suggested here when I talk about introducing the euro. I think this is one of the few important strategic goals that will achieve this government and legacy for some future to know what we've been doing, which is why it should have been good for our citizens. However, we recently had a different, completely different thought about it. We had a referendum that also showed that citizens understand very well what the benefits of this introduction of the euro are compared to the kuna and that they understand what it brings us. However, today we have heard again that we are not ready, that we may be entering the order, that it will leave certain different effects on our citizens, so I am ultimately asking whether we are really doing something or entering the euro area or whether we have fulfilled all the tasks and objectives that we are set to be able to introduce that euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95580	Thank you. Before the Minister's reply, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95581	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 of my colleague, Boric, tells the truth that the citizens understood that when collecting the signatures that the euro was important to the Republic of Croatia. Namely, 334000 signatures are according to the average population and voters are more than enough to call a referendum. The bigger problem is that the lists of voters in Croatia are not even taken care of today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95582	You get a warning from your colleague Pavličko. Let's go with the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95583	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what I'd say a pretty important topic and I'll go back to that very opening part, the opening part. So, if we weren't ready, if we hadn't met the criteria, we wouldn't be in foreign exchange rate two right now. Let me remind you, we submitted the app in July 2019 in fine circumstances, beautiful times. There were no covids, no earthquakes, no political turmoil. However, and then we had a 12-month deadline to meet 19 concrete measures in six different areas. Just when we were in that final phase, there was a pandemic, and it started amongst other things. Many are also in Croatia, and they expected us to pull the hand brake. I will not refer to other EU countries that also have aspirations towards the introduction of the euro. We're still saying we're colloquially pressing the gas slipper, and we're filling up faster and entering this very important element, that so-called. The waiting room and now it is also up to us to meet convergence criteria, Mastric criteria and criteria after entering the exchange rate mechanism two. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95584	Thank you. Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95585	Dear Mr. Minister, everyone had plenty of time, all except Croatian citizens. They will have only 4 months until the introduction of the euro to meet the double showing of prices, so that they can control cocoa and what they can cheat on. We know that we are threatened by the association of great players who will be at the expense of the citizens. However, in all of this, consumer protection associations that should be the strongest institution in the protection of fraud and, unfortunately, through the state, are incapacitated. So they are not institutionally supported and consumer protection associations that should play a key role in protecting citizens do not have professionals, they are at volunteer level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95586	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95587	Thank you, Your Honor, with all due respect, I must say, I cannot agree with her. On the one hand, on the one hand, non-euro area non-member countries, according to all parameters, Croatia is the most Euro-ised economy and society. On the other hand, even if compared to some of the countries already in the euro before their formal introduction of the euro. On the other hand, this whole time we're actually doing an affirmative campaign to get as close to the citizens as possible to all of these effects. The four months before the formal introduction of the euro any year to introduce the euro, either 1.1.'23. either 1.1.2020 or 2050 would always be four months before the introduction of the euro itself. So this is the element that would thus be the same in order in any year when this process is introduced as such. As far as our monitoring obligations are concerned, and I will say once again, with government and state bodies, of course we expect contributions and associations. civil society. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95588	Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95589	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly. So here in this debate is the time for the introduction of the euro we are not ready, so enough is the fact that even before we enter the European Course Mechanism 2 we received a SWOP loan from the European Central Bank in the middle of the crisis 2 billion euros as a sign of trust and then they also raised our credit rating exactly on the basis of the route to the euro. And as much as the banking union is saying enough congratulations to you vice president on the rescue and recovery of Sberbank. Is it true? Because in the banking union, if there is a unique recovery mechanism, we've been rehabilitated, or you've rescheduled Sberbank, you've prevented 3.8 billion kunas of budgetary separation. Some countries aren't. So if you can also remind which countries are not and exactly what are all the values of such a mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95590	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95591	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It was very intense days, very loaded with great adrenaline, but it all ended well and we can all be happy and happy together. I will repeat once again to the benefit of Sberbank's savings, the banks themselves, but also all other savings, i.e. citizens and our financial system. The decision that we have made is precisely why it was not in all other Member States, such as Austria, and we can also mention Hungary or the Czech Republic as part of the Single Sanancies Mechanism. But whenever we add up and put in a balance sheet plus and minus the euro, I'm always going from a minus because I think we should be as objective as possible and look at it that way, but when we put that balance, it always weighs in favour of these positive ones, which, of course, we don't look at from the prism of some crisis circumstances. You mentioned the SWOP that the European Central The bank gave us available whatever we're not in the euro. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95592	Col. Brumnic's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95593	Thank you. I didn't want to when I first picked up that breach of the Rules of Procedure and continued because my colleague Maric started speaking, and none of his business, the breach of the Rules of Procedure goes to the work of the president of HS on Article 33 that you are obliged to ensure to all MPs that they can fulfil their duties and duties. This morning I also made a complaint to you where it's really impossible to maintain at the same time Three boards and I'll be on all three at the same time. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95594	Thank you very much. You could have done that on another occasion, not now that you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95595	I'm right in front of my replica because I didn't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95596	Here's your line. You get a warning, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95597	As for the replica, I'm sorry that my colleague Maric wasn't on the board this morning, he might have changed this one a little bit, I was on the board. Maybe you could change your discussion a little bit, I actually have two questions. [[Intruder Marić: yes, yes... colleague.]] One question to tell all Croatian citizens that some colleagues object to the loss of monetary sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia how many times over the past 30 years have we used that monetary sovereignty if we exclude the defence of the course. And the second question of what I asked on the board I really thought that I was wrongly read in the law, when you read the law adjusting interest rates rule for a contract where a fixed interest rate was agreed and so on, and so on, and it concerns this continuity of legal instruments, it turns out that those citizens who were more responsible, who negotiated fixed interest rates in kunas, so that they don't know exactly how much the loans would cost now will pay a higher price than those who They didn't do it, and I think it's the state's job to regulate it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95598	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95599	Thank you very much. He was a fellow Secretary of State this morning on the board with his colleagues and conveyed to me among other things your intervention or question and a similar answer as he offered you. So, on the one hand, we're talking about contractual relations on the other hand, all this time we've been doing on a macro-level condition that in general and the total interest rates are going down, which has been achieved, and in this period that follows us, or which is already practically happening, and there's been an additional convergence between loans in kunas and in euro. And finally, we have also allowed citizens to go to the same banks at any time and ask for the refinancing of these same credit arrangements, or I will also invite them to this opportunity of course, which is that from some time until some time ago, I would say hard and difficult, have created numerous circumstances and many preconditions that they can actually manage their debts much more actively towards banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95600	Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95601	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister. First congratulations to you, the ministry, normal and government on all the activities that preceded this law itself. I have one question, and that is how a fixed exchange rate will be set for the euro in view of today's situation in Europe. Possible disturbance in the banking and financial market itself, is it possible that there could be major shifts in the course itself and that in the end Croatians and Croatia and that we end up being granted a more unfavourable course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95602	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95603	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is something that also in the explanation of the break, the distinguished representative Beljak has updated. So, I think there's a situation very I'd say simple, these 7,53450's parity which was established at the time of our entry into the foreign exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism 2. One of the criteria for meeting is that, among other things, fiscal, inflation, interest rates that the course cannot and should not slide more than 15% up or down. So those levels you mentioned if you didn't give God, and they won't come to them, of course we're not sending some false messages hypothetically, it would just mean eliminating us from the possible introduction of the euro at some point. So what will be the total final rate, we will know only in July, only in July, all together when there is a council decision, or government decision, but at the same time, I have to note that in the vast majority of cases of countries entering the euro, this course has not changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95604	Comrade Lalovec, come in. Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here in the impact analysis you said about the one time smaller, it doesn't say what amount, so I'm asking you, what's the small one-time cost that we're going to have to pay to the ECB, right? Does it also have to pay the core capital part, have to transfer part of the international reserve, and it must also be here, saying that this safeguard measure must be paid, that protective layer, is it? So here's the little part, so here, I'm asking you specifically, what is the amount that the National Bank or the National Bank has to convert to the European Central Bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95606	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95607	Thank you very much. So as for the transfer of reserves, 380m euros is some calculation on our part, however, this whole topic of international reserves will certainly be further updated in the period ahead of us, because you are well aware of the international or foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia and certainly one of the stronger ones, I would say, insurance and insurance, not only financially but generally macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia, but at the same time, these are circumstances when, among other things, one real, adequate way of discussing it from a total of this, level, so over 20, in particular 25 billion. As far as other costs are concerned, of course, that at this point some of these costs cannot be exact or predicted, but what is most important for citizens to know, that all these costs that are possible will, of course, be at the expense of credit institutions, banks in relation to the state, so not on consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95608	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95609	I would like to thank the president of HS, Your Honor. Here, thank you, you have elaborated it all nicely and the fact is that we Croats have bled for kuna, but by creating an independent state of Croatia, we have set goals, the EU, NATO alliance, the Eurozone and by meeting these conditions, we have actually circled the story. Please, Minister, there is speculation in the public that Croatians and Croatia will be impoverished by the introduction of the euro, so I ask you to deny it here because of those people who listen to you and because of all those people who trust you very, very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95610	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95611	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, this is the same one of these topics and the thesis that we mentioned, which is that, of course, we need to look at both sides of the process and the previous two replicas that concern the direct financial cost in terms of the obligation to deposit in reserves, 700 when adding the other part, the recovery, yes, as well as the cost of banks, so these are figures, which among other things should be taken into account. On the other hand, the previous replica also mentioned the loss of sovereignty, I will not paraphrasise the words of the Governor of the CNB a while ago, but the question, as it is said in the replica itself, which we currently have from that sovereignty in terms of which it is an instrument that we can put into function monetary policy, when we are, as well as so deeply integrated into the euro area flows, mainly through the banking system and, of course, you are looking at all, among other things, positive things, and I would say that for the positive things, we should also ask the business community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95612	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95613	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, when you signed the promotion along with Governor Vujčić in the Eurozone accession process, you said you'd sell stakes in the companies that the state has, nothing was done. You said you'd reduce parafiscals, you'd commit yourself, you'd reduce parafiscals, you'd reduce symbolism. Now you're saying that you're going to protect consumers, and if you're going to protect them like you've done so far, then it'll be better not to protect them again. Today there are 9.17 kuna in Hungary, and in Croatia there are 12 kunas and 19 limes, and 33% more. Of those 12 kunas and 19 limes, 60% goes to the state. That's how you protect consumers, and now you answer me, if you can, of course, what it will cost to introduce the euro in total, means printing coins and all these adjustments that banks have to make. companies, etc.? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95614	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95615	Thank you very much. Well, as far as fuel prices are concerned, I think we've spoken clearly these past days. I do not know the situation in Hungary well enough to say how much the base price of oil or processed oil is there, but as far as Croatia is concerned, you saw that the government was in session on Monday, entered between the rest and the segment that we thought was not yet a moment, now is the time to reduce, among other things, excise duties and to limit how much price growth that was imminent, last night and last night, were oil prices approaching historical maximums, but at the same time, but at the same time a very important thing, to ensure the secure supply of our gas stations or the business sector of the economy and citizens as such. As far as these costs are concerned, we are talking about the cost of adapting the total system and state and financial institutions, the current assessment is about around 2 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95616	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95617	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor. One of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia is, of course, the introduction of the euro. This preceded a series of criteria that needed to be met, thank God we met them. '21. And '22. The year is the year in which the final preparations are intense. With the introduction of the euro, some will also want to use it to increase the price, but we could see in this legislative proposal and in your report a number of consumer protection mechanisms, which, of course, I welcome. But what I'm interested in is the rules for recalculating money. In what concrete way will consumers be protected from becoming more unfavourable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95618	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95619	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, that double-price statement is one of the mechanisms. One of the other mechanisms that was in reserve, which was in reserve, but we had to activate it earlier is something we're going to discuss next week with the Value Added Tax Act. Given these inflationary movements, we updated and activated this bill just before we thought. On the third hand, these are, of course, the whole way and supervision of the implementation of these measures. So, as far as supervisory activities are concerned, price recalculation is very clear and unequivocal. Whoever does this is becoming very clear infractions. This part of an unwarranted price hike is what we all need to contribute together not to it. So, both state institutions and civil society and all of us together. As regards the retailing of food that you may be interested in, there is a situation as far as Croatia's goods are concerned, because we have one of the most competitive retail retail markets, and that is one of the pledges that still reduce and prevent this unwarranted increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95620	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95621	Dear Ministers, you are one of the most high-quality ministers in the government, but as far as the EUR is concerned, your timing is more than bad. In fact, entering the Eurozone at the time of the biggest economic crisis since the EU is truly not wise. Energy prices are rising on a daily basis, food prices and services are rising at a weekly level and this will simply speed up the entry into the Eurozone. You will have an average pension of EUR 300 and a loaf of bread will cost you a euro and a half. It means that one pensioner will spend 10% of his pension on bread alone. Despite these mechanisms of your protection of unwarranted price growth, such as Article 43, as regards the period of dual presentation, you know what is happening to you right now, the hosts are already saying that they will already increase the prices of their services before the double price statement itself and you can't to prevent it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95622	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95623	Thank you very much, esteemed representative on both commentary and replica. Yeah, it's very layered, and I'm going to start with this last part. So I think that, among other things, the announcement of a significant increase, I think that in some ways it simply retreated and disappeared from the media space as soon as it was published as such because they saw the reaction of the citizens themselves to something like that. Our citizens are very smart and they will best know and assess. It is up to us, of course, to create conditions and protect them as much as possible under these circumstances. As for timing itself, and I can agree, of course, in that part of yours when you say that we're back in a really significant crisis and crisis, especially in the fact that we don't know at this point how things are going to move on. Repercusions are already visible at the moment, but I think that among other things being part of the Eurozone has shown itself in other countries, and it shows, for example, Croatia that it is actually among other things to protect you better when a crisis occurs or during the crisis itself, you have stronger an instrumentation of reaction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95624	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95625	Dear President, respected ministers entering the Eurozone is a well-being for Croatia, and the government, the ministry, has done an excellent job. The introduction of the EUR, the entry into the Eurozone, generates fear among consumers of unfair price hikes. That's where the code of ethics is mentioned. Fear is justified. We know the desire for such attempts to manipulate, therefore, the rise in prices. Please, would it be good to set a time when prices should not be raised before conversion, and for those who would violate such a recommendation to impose some sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95626	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95627	Thank you, well-respected MP, for the comment and the replica, as I have said in the opening section, we are, unfortunately, witnesses and living witnesses of the fact that this fear of citizens, justifiably concerned citizens about rounding prices and the effect on inflation, which is, at the same time, to be said in these seven Member States, they entered under a slightly different circumstances on average 0.2 to 0.4 percentage points. We are currently in the past months and today and in the months that follow exposed by inflationary pressures that have nothing to do with the introduction of the EUR much, much more significant. And today, among other things, one of the key challenges that we as a government are facing, and you can see by the measures and decisions we make, are increasingly focused on easing these price increases that happen to the entire spectrum of our economy as we directly increase when we say gas prices, electricity, fuel fuels that are indirect. So at this point bringing some kind of measure wouldn't even be possible I would say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95628	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95629	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. My dear Minister, I'm going to have to ask myself this question of yours. Is there a possibility of a war-inflation impact with existing Covid inflation that we already have to threaten Croatia's entry into the Eurozone, given that one of the criteria, of the key criteria, is the level of inflation that we must respect?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95630	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95631	Well, thank you very much, that's what I expected me not to say the line before, but let's try to explain. So, of these Mastric criteria specifically for inflation, Croatia ended last year with a harmonised 5.5% consumer price index. This is right at the level of the EU average. So we're not jumping off the EU average. You have countries like the Baltic countries that have inflation rates and over 12 such as Lithuania or Estonia of 11%. However, the criterion is technically tested against the 3 best countries or countries with the lowest inflation rates. Last year, these last 12 months have been Greece, Portugal and Malta. In view of this whole chart or table or graphics, the statistical depiction of all data actually clearly shows that they quite bounced off that I do not say with due respect to them and their citizens are statisticalally those deviations they so-called. outliers. The European Commission fully knows that as well as we do. So, what I'm saying is that taking into account all these elements and the expected inflation developments, Croatia will also meet that criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95632	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95633	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I was part of that assembly when we ratified the EU accession treaty exactly 10 years ago, and then we made a political decision to enter the Eurozone and I don't think we made a mistake. Everything that happened later, and even the current political turmoil as you mentioned, is not really a reason to give up or say, here we are going to wait a little while to see what happens rather than an additional reason for us to accept this Euro Law. Namely, it is a political decision that has its own economic logic that you mentioned, but we are plastically told by entering the EU, so if you want to join NATO and become part of the West, we have come out of that thorny area of the Balkans in a geopolitical sense. By entering the euro, even by entering Schengen, we are moving from the periphery to the European core and this gives us additional security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95634	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95635	Thank you, Your Honor, I cannot agree with you any more than you have said and I share this very argument, therefore, with the timing and all these advances, I would also associate with the current moment, but I would also connect with the EU accession process. Our process has been very long and we hope that this process of entry into the euro will not be, but according to everything, it will be one of the shorter ones like Slovenia and other countries, but and then it was worth what I'm about to say, so the better prepared we are, and all this time we are doing right now is getting better prepared to materialise the benefits in the larger volume, and to neutralize and reduce the damage and disadvantages of this as much as possible. And again, I'll repeat what I've said many times, if this government hadn't started first and foremost with the consolidation of public finances, our dialogue with European institutions wouldn't have started, so we could knock on my door, but no one would have opened or answered the other side of the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95636	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95637	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, two short questions. What will happen to the Croatian kuna bills after we replace them into the euro? And one little bit more important, is there a danger that some of these replaced bills suddenly come up on, say, parts of BiH where we know that the kuna is officially in circulation, so that in this way it can be converted to either the euro or the equivalent of goods or services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95638	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95639	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95640	I'm sorry, thank you very much, Your Honor. This is one of the things that is particularly important in this period which is ahead of us in the field of technical operational tasks, technically extremely demanding of this process, the CNB came out with a billion and 100 million pieces of coin, for example, that needs to be pulled out of circulation, so they gave the picture that it is one of the maximum or human lawns that when you put one to the other coin goes to a height of 60 to 70 cm. It's a similar topic with bills, so the withdrawal will be a very demanding job, we'll all be the most focused on this pre-supply and replacement process. Of course, all the bodies of the state will, among other things, cooperate and it will all be done in accordance with the rules not only to say the professions and, above all, what you have alluded to in the second part in accordance with national interests, so that everything is protected properly and that God does not come to any breakthroughs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95641	Comrade Klasic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95642	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Your Honor. Following the crisis in Eastern Europe and the negative consequences it carries is the noticeable impact of this crisis and the unstable environment on the currency of countries that did not enter the euro zone, and borders with this crisis point, while those who are in the euro area are still partially compensated as you are... mentioned the Baltic countries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are we not yet part of the euro area interested in what mechanisms you have foreseen in the event of a threat to the stability of our currency until we enter the euro area in this next period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95643	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95644	Thank you very much, this is not so, Your Honor, although it is not the government's authority but the independent monetary authority responsible for HS here I will give myself the right to try to interpret what the governor would answer, which is that one of the basic tasks and the main objective of the CNB is to maintain price stability. It is in the law that HS voted, and the way they do it or try to do it all this time is by using the nominal, so practically stability of the nominal course as anchors and anchors for what we're talking about. And when we look at since the kuna was introduced for almost 30 years, so we can say that the course was very close or very few fluctuations up or down, we generally had within the year under some normal circumstances apreciative pressures due to the inflow of foreign exchanges from tourists and foreign capital etc.. The instrumentation exists, I just said 25 billion euros in international reserves and will do everything of course to keep the course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95645	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95646	Thank you. The good news for the non-functional government is that the corrupt print is actually the introduction of the euro, which I absolutely support, and my question is very clear. So, the CNB will stay at the management section of the so-called. I'll say the assets, so which will remain when the deposits of public companies' banks are rejected, etc. And we're talking maybe 6-6.5 billion euros, that's what we're talking about. A treasure chest, a Croatian treasure chest, let's call it that. So different, there will be different marine ideas about how to manage, and my question is, are you ready to propose in the assembly the Fiscal Fund Act means where the money from the show profit would actually enter into that fund and serve Croatia in the troubled times instead of, say, increasing taxes, anticyclically to act as an anticyclical instrument, are you ready to make a decision now as a wise state and to create such a fund from the emission profits of banks that will remain, I am speaking to the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95647	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95648	Thank you, Your Honor, as well as the previous replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovec and about this information, the exact data will, of course, be made up of how much the CNB will be paid to avoid any misunderstandings, but I have already apostropheeded that we are working on this subject and we are considering. At this point, I would not enter the very specific and concrete steps I would say because, of course, there is legislation and provisions of the European, euro area, the European Central Bank, but there is also a certain room for manoeuvre to be taken into account and, in some ways, I would say the balance between what needs to be met in accordance with the acts, on the other hand, something that is necessary to ensure further macro-financial stability of the Republic, but also in the same way that the most efficient use of all the funds you speak of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95649	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95650	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, it is lovely and pleasant to listen when you say that Croatia did not use monetary tools to protect the kuna. It's because someone wasn't able to do it and we have to tell people. It is the same thing when it is said that we will cover Croatian citizens' money is neither yours nor mine nor the HDZ's, even though that's what it thinks there. So what's important is to point out that we live in a country where people live in containers. We live in a country that's been hit by two earthquakes, and we owe it to God and the devil. We live in a country where we jump two feet into the air when you're in cheap debt and then we're happy. As someone gives us money because we are very good and talented. They're giving us because they have an interest, and we have to pay that money back. The banks say they'll spend it on this conversion of 2.2 billion kuna. Do you or anyone here really think that this will not be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95651	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95652	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the replication and for your comment. This last part I'm going to go after him right now, that's what's important to the citizens. We ourselves have always witnessed the circumstances and the banks and the business sector and so on when there is a certain increase in costs. The cost is always kind of poured into the next link, and it usually ends with consumers. And that is exactly what our whole point is and the whole process of introducing the euro and all the circumstances that we have brought. So, the moment we started stabilising public finances opened the talks and the negotiations I'm going to quote clearly or paraphrasing one of the latest reports on the rating agency itself, the process of introducing the euro are two steps higher credit ratings. What does a higher credit rating mean? That means the lower interest that's been going on all this time. Of course, when we single out one segment and watch it we call it so specifically, we can draw a conclusion or someone can conclude that it will reflect negatively on consumers. But there's a whole series of these forces, or elements in that total calculation. where consumers should be protected. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95653	I'm a colleague of the Dauss. Excuse me, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95654	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'll agree with those who said we didn't use our monetary policy levers. Why and how to talk about it, but it's not a topic right now. We're talking post-festum. The only thing we've been doing is lurkingly guarding the course of the Kuna. But what I'm really interested in and what's bothering me is whether this is the right time to introduce the euro precisely because of the global crisis, precisely because of the inflation that is global. We see that the value of the euro is also falling. Of course, we feel the consequences. Indirectly, I fear that this might actually improve the purchases that we can expect when we introduce the euro. So we do not have to look far at examples of countries that have also introduced the euro relatively recently. And another one for the end of the question that is indirectly related to this, but I hope that at least you can give us an answer. I asked the Prime Minister not to give me an answer. To whom exactly money was paid for the Sberbank since there are blockades in payments, i.e. payment traffic with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95655	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95656	There's little time to answer everything. But if I don't get there, I'll talk to you later. The Honorable Representative and Škori and you are only briefly related to this part about banks and expenses. Therefore, banks will also be freed from foreign exchange reserves that are their obligation today and at the same time the cost. So one part of that cost will be neutralized, so I'd say even in the most part. Therefore, they will have no excuse to raise and increase certain certain price of their services and the like. As for the timing, here's maybe one that's exactly like this in this short time of reply to the replica simplified display. One of the things that I'm still like this to say right now is that he keeps me awake at night as he likes to say it in English is our release of a bond that comes to us now in the fifth month. The markets are unfortunately in poor condition because of the global pandemic, the crisis that we are in the euro zone. I would be completely carefree because the European Central Bank buys bonds, can enter that space without any problem. Here's just one parallel among other things when we talk about when the crisis is actually a membership or part of the euro zone even more shows as good. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95657	You haven't answered the second question, so you have to find a way because it's interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95658	I'll explain it either in one of the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95659	My colleague Škoro has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95660	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you read my mind. So the common denominator here is 238th violation of the Rules of Procedure. So the common denominator is actually a matter of monetary leverage, monetary policy. That's it. Let's let it go now, the banks are footnotes, but it definitely means you and I know it and we're easy to get over it. We didn't use that. Why didn't we use that? And this way we lose every opportunity to do it...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95661	Do you know what's going on with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95662	A warning? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95663	Now let's move on with the replicas. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95664	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers of IDS's trip has been clear, unequivocal since day one, it is European. After all, Istria has been in the European region's assembly since 1994, so it is logical for me to follow up on EU and euro entry. I hope tomorrow, Schengen, and I sincerely hope to move the razor wire at the border with Slovenia if we are all one big family. But let me get back to the subject. What concerns me is the readiness of the Croatian economy, that is, its impeccableness, insufficient own production, and the creation of additional value in its own backyard. This is the topic, and the other problem is that Croatia is certainly not an energy independent country. And my question is what you're getting ready to do is, by moving to a new currency, a blow to the citizens' pocket would be as mild as possible, especially when we look from today's perspective in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95665	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95666	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comment. So, what we're preparing and what our dialogue with the business community is I think more than clear. All these measures that, given the crisis circumstances, are such that you have to reach out to a much stronger state interventionism than perhaps some normal, peaceful circumstances in the right sense of the word this time I have to say. On the other hand, all of this together that we've been doing is focused precisely on how citizens' living standards are rising I'm going to remind them from tax changes and tax cuts to some other raises of minimum wages, etc. etc. But what's most important is that we be as clear as possible, of course, that the crisis circumstances of all of us actually require spot reactions, thoughtful but spot reactions so quickly, but not quickly. So is the process of introducing the euro and Schengen that you mentioned, but also everything that is also closely related to these processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95667	My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95668	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. The greatest fear of our citizens is about unwarranted price hikes. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the very fundamental principle of the introduction of the euro is the principle of consumer protection and the prohibition of unwarranted price increases to that extent that it is said that the consumer and the natural person are still so detailed even when it refers to rounding, which will be when the last digit is five or more than five and so on. However, what I would like to point out for those legal persons who might have resorted to something such that there are also criminal provisions that say if the business entity did not highlight the fixed rate of conversion, and thus did not use or price the service clearly and readably has a fine of 2,650 to 13,270 euros plus a responsible person from 660 to 1,990 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95669	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95670	Thank you very much. So, that part about recalculating and showing itself, I think he's really more than clear, and I really don't think we should waste any excessive words at all. In fact, there is a very clear and predictable provision for those infringements that, if they cannot fully define it, which means an unwarranted increase in prices, therefore wrongly recalculating more than clearly. And there's actually the law's intensity to sanction it. And here's what I'm going to take advantage of, and I'm going to add to the previous replica, just like that business community and legal entities you're talking about, the esteemed representative Daus, a little later I'm going to answer you one more time, you have to wait, I'm kidding. The business sector in many polls, I won't put any words in anyone's mouth, but you know for a fact that it is very affirmative and speaks on the occasion of messages given by the associations of either HUP, HGK and similar to the euro as soon as possible. Of course, business entities that are healthy, restructured, adequately placed will only benefit from that But we also know that there is... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95671	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95672	The Honorable Ministers. As the date of introduction of the new currency draws closer we see here and such an opportunity gathers more and more public attention, as well as us MPs here who, as with other similar things, are divided. We are one for the introduction of the euro because we believe it will stabilise Croatia and help further develop it. At the same time, others strongly oppose the announcement because they fear an increase in daily demand prices and an additional decline in citizens' standards. Is there reason to fear that many prices in Croatia are already more expensive now than in EU countries where the euro is already the official currency of payments and can we expect that with the introduction of the euro some price in Croatia will fall because it will line up with prices on the European market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95673	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95674	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'd say, of course, I'll go from myself or from the government, it's our responsibility and our job to listen to the citizens and everything they say among other things, so whatever terms are used by fear, fear, etc. It's definitely something that you should take seriously in your hired hand and that's what's happened. In many other countries as well as in Croatia, this segment of rounding prices and effects on inflation is something that citizens mention as one of the key shortcomings, which is why the whole instrumentation is, among other things, envisaged in this law. Others are related to these replicas that referred to the loss of that monetary sovereignty, or sovereignty, which is what I also said was the question of whether at this time we have it, which is the instrument of the CNB or monetary government, and also closely related to this and my response to previous HNB replicas is responsible to HS and in fact they can best explain what I can or can't do. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95675	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95676	Thank you. The next year when salaries will be to people of 600 euros, and a tank of gas 100 euros, I think it will be to people whether they show themselves in dual or double prices, but I will not even enter into that theory a better euro for the Croatian economy. I have to say that it's a little cynical when you talk about how we've already lost monetary sovereignty and that we can't use these affirmative exchange rate depreciation policies at all to run affirmative export and employment policies, but even from this mainstream of liberal views, it's amazing that you answer that we've already met those criteria. Well, it doesn't matter that we're now entering the Eurozone at a time of great war and great inflation, because from your perspective, we should ask a question, don't you think it would be better for Denmark to postpone its entry into the Eurozone, given that our inflation is curding us? lower than some other countries, and we could [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] really run some affirmative monetary policy. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95677	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95678	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is really difficult in 60 seconds to answer and comment, but all together, so I just have to say for a little while, so as far as monetary sovereignty is concerned, I'm interpreting and you know for myself that I'm actually not allowed to comment on monetary policy as our independent so I want to say that you always have the opportunity to see the governor and his team here twice a year and ask all these questions or ask certain arguments. So that sentence I said isn't something that didn't originally come from the CNB. So, we are talking about the situation and the fact that as a society and an economy, we are deeply Eurosed and already deeply integrated into the monetary flows of the European System of Central Banks, which may ultimately be the most recent example when you look at the ownership structure of Croatian banks, which is practically from the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95679	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95680	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. When we list and list the advantages of the introduction of the euro, then it is the removal and the currency clause that is very important, given that our CNB has actually kept that exchange rate against the euro during these many times, and this is what has contributed to the stability that has just been legally, any citizen, was this legal person to the banks when we know that more than 522 billion kuna and over 140.6% of GDP is actually now due otherwise to banks which are states, which are other sectors, and that more than 90% are actually in foreign currency in the foreign exchange commitment, i.e. in the euro. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95681	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95682	Thanks to the well-respected representatives and presidents of our parent board, I can, of course, agree with you and this topic that I would have said in Croatia for many years and decades and she can say her own opinion so when she was currently in the 1990s then she could practically have some more serious, serious solution if she decided to make a more significant course correction. In the meantime, however, what you are saying is the administrative debt of our entire system and of our state and of our business and of the citizens who are mahogany or directly or indirectly indexed in the EUR-o and then are there, the mathematics is unfortunately very simple and then we can take some percentages, which would mean a possible depression at the level of public debt, debt from corporations or debt of each person of us who have loans in the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95683	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95684	You want to turn off the grape? No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95685	Dear Minister, I will take the opportunity to remind you of the question of colleagues of Hajdukovic. So, who paid whom money for Sberbank, I'm going to expand a little into which currency, did in kuna, give in kuna, give in euro or in laundry, and who now owns Agrokor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95686	As far as this is concerned, thank you, well-respected representative, so Sberbanka's entire process and dialogue was ours exclusively according to the European Sanitary Mechanism, or committee, and this relationship at the level of the CNB government, or at some point when the buyer showed up as such. These 71 million kunas are paid according to the CNB and the funds are going or are being directed towards the Single Restitution Committee, which of course pays those funds to the owner of the former, or now to the one who is no longer such. So, very clearly everything is very transparent, any kuna, any EUR's that I would say and the less important amount is very clearly communicated. I don't know what I just said wrong, yeah. And as for the ownership of Agrokor or Forten's company, I really don't have that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95687	My fellow Perky Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95688	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, here we have heard and seen that most MPs, as well as citizens, are concerned about the timing that is really crucial at the moment. It is inevitable that in fact the introduction of the EUR brings and opens up opportunities for even greater and more expensive and inflation and possible negative trend in consumption, in the economy, and we know that the economy is further let's say damaged both by previous and current processes, therefore Covid, war and indeed these are situations where an objective approach is very important. I ask you if you are willing to objectively look at the time and timing of the introduction of the EUR or here you are really holding on to what you have given yourself and not thinking about a delay or are here today just to satisfy the form because every meaning of the smallest false step can have major negative effects. So, do you stay on the given time terms because no matter how good the preparation may be in these circumstances? very large negative effects. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95689	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95690	Thank you very much, distinguished MP, I like to come to the Croatian Parliament so that I am not just pro form today, I have to make fun of myself. We stick to our time frame, but we take into account, of course, all the circumstances and think carefully about all these challenges and all the risks we face are still behind this direction and decision of term. I'm going to connect the previous replica of you and me, since we're coming from the same city, so when we talk again about benefits and disadvantages, we had the situation of Sberbank, so this payment to the owner when the conditions are obtained. Our communication with the Unique Renaissance Mechanism, where good luck, where one such system exists, let's say for businesses then what we've been doing over the past few days and we've been on the line with a very healthy and good company, we know very well what in Slavonski Brod means 872 jobs, plus 150 etc. The supplier would be dealt with the same way we did with Sberbank. We're going to need a little more time or a little more time, but I'm 100% sure we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95691	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95692	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I support, of course, the introduction of the EUR as an official currency and in this context and today's draft bill, but I would like to ask you once again for our citizens to explain to us how much and whether the introduction of the EUR will contribute to an increase in inflationary movements and, if they want, what are the assessments in this regard. And secondly, if you have time to look again and to the benefits of introducing EUR for citizens, that is, for our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95693	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95694	Thank you, well-respected MP, so I'm going to talk again about the data that was based on the analysis of 7 countries entering the Eurozone, the circumstances weren't the ones currently Covida, geopoliticals and the like, but 0.2 to 0.4 percentage points in the first year and only because that rounding cost, or the negative side of rounding, is one time in one year, as a rule, practically in the first year. However, again, we are currently facing where and where the higher inflationary pressures are, and today it's really hard, in general, all of our efforts to contain inflation because more here in the good part, the good part of the energy, we're not just talking about percentage changes, we're not even talking about how many times something has grown, so a significant blow where we're using a complete instrumentary as you can see I just mentioned, and when I commented on the CNB exactly and this monetary policy which is the main goal of maintaining price stability today from our answers are practically all in the sphere. fiscal policies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95695	And finally, colleague Raukar Gamulin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95696	Thank you. Dear Ministers, it is therefore known that stable and resilient countries function much better and more successfully in the terms of the common currency while countries that are burdened by their own economic problems have problems. So it's pretty clear that we haven't quite met all these criteria that, that this general debt of the state is not below 60% and that inflation that's already been talked about a lot is not 5.03 which is supposed to be but 5.5. But you said it was your job to listen to the citizens. The citizens are really afraid of what's actually going to happen. So I ask you again to say the negative consequences of introducing the euro with such unfavourable indicators and especially given this geopolitical moment that we do not know how it will end unfortunately. And second question, what about blacklists of those who increase prices without a market need that have a good effect in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95697	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95698	Thank you very much, Your Honor, we'll be here to discuss this later. I've mentioned this first part several times. Let's go to these black lists, so the performance and approach of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which I think is extremely good through the whole communication they're leading really with very, very many actors, because actually when you look at this business sector, which is what the retail chains have recently told me and promised, of course it's not just them and they have some suppliers, but neither do they want the reputations to be characterized by those who were what we like to say hunters in the blurry. And you see, we ourselves are going to discuss the reduction of VAT rates to certain items next week, some of them are already going to some affirmative marketing and sales campaigns to already lower prices even before the formal one. Why did I mention this affirmative part? Because we're looking at, of course, and we need to, if we can identify, of course, some negative repercussions of this thing, but we need to look at that affirmative approach. Those who fulfill all that is expected of them in the right way and should be called out to the public among other things, in a positive sense, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95699	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, we've come to an end. Now, just before we move on to the debate, the information, I can see on the screen that there is still a Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning and the Committee on Economy, so there is still a debate about the new minister, so I'm not sure we'll be able to vote at 13 o'clock, so please follow this by when the committee takes place and we'll vote then 30 minutes and half an hour after the board's session is over. ... Okay, maybe it'll be at one, and maybe it'll be a little later, mostly please just follow it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Now we move forward with the work, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, first of all is a respected colleague, Martincevic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, and then, on behalf of the same club, Klasic will speak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95700	The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The first and most important thing we must stress in this debate is that Croatia's entry into the euro zone is not a magic wand and is not the solution to all our problems, or even an objective one. We are all aware of the fact that, for example, structural problems do not know health care will certainly not be solved by the transition to the euro. Therefore, the real foundations for our development can only be sought in strong reforms for which courage and ability should be exercised, which I only wanted to stress in the opening debate. On the other hand, no one is serious, and after the easily verifiable experiences of all the countries entering the European Monetary Union, it cannot claim that a one-time inflation strike is between 0.2 and 0.3% of any reason that should prevent us from entering the process. In fact, the covid of inflation that we are witnessing and this war inflation tells us clearly about exactly the grotesque argument of a one-time inflationary blow compared to the inflationary dangers that I have just said we are witnessing. I will repeat several common known facts that make us strongly support the decision to enter the Eurozone. The first is that the currency risk that we are exposed to today is related to the fact that 140% of the value of GDP is from the debt of all sectors of the state, business, population related to the euro. Furthermore, it is clear that any serious depression would lead to a state of recession. On the one hand, entering the euro zone eliminates that risk, and on the other hand, we lose nothing objectively because of this so-called. We haven't had an independent monetary policy that we often talk about since 1993. And that's why we can't use the course as an instrument. Today to argue that it would have been better if we had used the course 30 years ago actively, that we had the strength and abilities as well as to claim that a much smarter conservative exchange rate policy was first with the German mark and then with the euro. In any case, both the debates of this species today are completely groundless and are essentially pure politics. As far as sovereignty is concerned, by entering our governor into the Governing Council of the European Central Bank with an active voice, we get several times as much weight as our financial share, and thus our sovereignty in terms of the possibility of influence on decisions that are important to us and not reducing. The benefits such as the annual savings at the transaction costs of a billion and 200 million kuna are not the most important, but they are neither small, such as the important and important easier decision of every foreign investor to invest in a country where it feels completely secure and chambery. Even more significant is the benefit through the reduction of interest rates and the capacity to manage future economic crises. We have a very concrete experience of the covid crisis in which we have been given the precedent of access to the European Central Bank at the time of the risk and the reduction of foreign reserves, and we are allowed only because we have already been at a high level of the euro area entry process. The European stability mechanisms currently hold around 60% of the total Greek debt, and it is no coincidence that Greece has just cited as an extreme example everything that has happened there has done everything to stay in the euro zone and does not think of it coming out of it because it is aware that without a European stability mechanism, it would be difficult to withstand the debt price. Let me get this straight. Entry into the euro is an extremely good instrument that can contribute to healthy and long-term development with the ability to reform. That is why all those who, at this moment under the demagogue fog of protecting our sovereignty, protect the currency essentially fighting for the kuna, conceal the real desire not to be a fully integrated European state. They do not want us to recognize our future as part of Europe, but as a small edged Balkan country, and what is most amazing is right at the moment when it is clear how many of us and our membership in the NATO alliance are already, but also in the European Union position significantly different from many countries that are struggling to join the EU and the European zone today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95701	You, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists...... Yeah, Mr. Klasic. [[-Bukarica raider, you don't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. Excuse me. So the second part of the Reformist and HSLS club continues, Mr Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95702	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The European Union is a political alliance based on values that include individual freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. These common values represent all that the European Union actually is and defines its way of action. The mentioned European values are the basis for quality European institutions. The European Economic and Monetary Union is one of the EU institutions the Republic of Croatia joined in 2013. By signing the EU contract, it also assumed the obligation to accept the euro as its currency, i.e. the obligation to join the euro area. The introduction of the euro into our country is an additional step towards a higher level of European integration and in Croatia. The advantage of the decision to introduce the euro has now become even more pronounced at the time of the crisis in Ukraine, and more strategically justified and essential for the stability of the state. It has now become clear that only the accession of the euro zone can protect against the instability of capital flows and unexpected pressures on exchange rate changes. Entry into the euro area of Croatia and the Croatian economy will provide a huge umbrella in the geostrategic position in these turbulent and crisis times. An example of the opposite political decision does not enter the euro zone of individual Member States bordering Ukraine is now visible and shows that their crisis environment reflects their economic, political issue, which is directly reflected in their national currency. Investors avoid potentially unstable zones, and in the event of a crisis, they run like mice from Titanic. An example of such a flow of crisis is currently the most visible in Poland whose central bank intervened twice last week, although this has not achieved the desired result due to the cross-border crisis. So the Polish evil is loosing its value unsustainable. The impact is far easier to compensate if the country is in the euro zone, as the stabilisation of the crisis is evenly distributed to all members of the Union, as most are not directly covered by the immediate threat. For the same geostrategic reason, almost all Baltic countries have unanimously accepted entry into the euro area to reduce the possibility of a crisis, and have become more attractive to investment as stable monetary countries that are not directly affected by possible crisis environments. This is undoubtedly important for our country, because Croatia itself is in a potentially unstable environment, and the euro can certainly make our country more attractive to foreign investors, given that they are simplifying access to our market. Calculating can be done in one currency, thus removing exchange rate differences. The euro may be a factor in deciding whether the company or company will establish its headquarters in our country or in other countries that do not pay in that currency. The Euro can thus give us important competitiveness, an advantage within this region. The introduction of the euro in Croatia will also reduce risks to financial and macro-economic stability as well as interest rates and transaction costs especially for the Croatian economy. The current exchange rate policy which is implemented and does not contribute to Croatian exporters and is one of the biggest obstacles to increasing profitability. In these circumstances, it is very difficult to remain competitive on the demanding global market. On the other hand, what are the shortcomings in the euro? One of them is certainly an inability to determine the interest rates to be determined by the European Central Bank for Croatia. The negative impact on the economic capital of the company will also have on the accounting of obligations as they will be discounted at lower interest rates and the commitments shown will ultimately be higher. But probably the most negative perception is the need to guarantee obligations and less disciplined euro area countries. This was fully achieved in the case of Greece when other countries did not want to be included in the rescue and financial support mechanism of the country. However, while looking at the positive foreign euros for Croatia, the possible negative ones are well above what the CNB's analysis has shown with the condition that the overall work is done in quality, detail and with a high level of seriousness and attention. The HSLS will therefore support the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia because it does not exclusively come down to meeting the international commitments undertaken, but rather benefits that we will achieve greater than possible negative risks for Croatian citizens. And in any case, it will encourage our entrepreneurs and the economy and integrate us even more into the single market within the monetary union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95703	Thank you. The Croatian sovereigns' club will also share time. The first is Mr. Pavliček, and then Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95704	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the resolution ministry. The EU's last GDP per capita, the EU's most recent consumption of the EU's personal head. The share of public debt in GDP to some 82.4% currently on only 66% of the EU's average development. The annual inflation rate is 5% at the end of 2021. All of them, unfortunately, are economic indicators that adorn the beautiful of ours. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the worst is yet to come. Because of the crisis in Ukraine, we have daily increases in energy prices, prices of goods and services. By entering the Eurozone nothing will change, but nothing will change, unfortunately there will be another fall in our fellow citizens' standards. In fact, it has been demonstrated that in all the countries that entered the Eurozone in the first few months and the first year of two days there has been a significant rise in prices of goods and services, and that wages and pensions did not follow in the first wave. And there will be no exception to Croatia and let us not fool ourselves. In fact, you must bear in mind that one average salary will be the i.e. pension of only EUR 300 and one loaf of euro and a half. That a pensioner with 35 years of employment will have to spend 10% of his pension on bread. Welcome to the Croatian EU in the 21st century. But Governor Vujcic made a fascinating statement just two months ago. Asking journalists how citizens will protect themselves from unwarranted price growth he declares select those who offer you lower prices or buy where it is cheaper. From a man who has a net salary almost twice the size of Minister Marić, I would expect a better answer. Also, these control mechanisms set up in this law to prevent undue price increases, unfortunately, will not help such as Article 43 and the dual display period. Namely, already now in the talks that you can all check with the caterers, traders are told that there will be a price increase before the dual price display period to avoid exactly this kind of articles and these control mechanisms. However, Prime Minister Plenkovic, on the other hand, said in September half that the introduction of the EUR has a number of benefits, so he says the currency risk will disappear, the exchange costs will disappear, the interest rates will be reduced, foreign investments will be stimulated, we will have a better credit rating and we will have a very likely higher flow of tourists. Unfortunately, much of these arguments just don't stand. Let's take it in a row. The currency risk will disappear, the Croatian kuna has been tied to both the German brand and the EUR-o and some major currency risk for decades. Exchange costs will disappear, the prime minister is right, but there will be a minimum of 2,000 jobs mainly for women who worked in exchange offices and who will end up on the labour market. The interest rates will be reduced, the reduction in interest rates will depend primarily on the financial situation and the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, not on which currency is the payment. Foreign investment will be encouraged, here's an exact example. Foreign direct investment in Croatia in 2020 amounted to 1.3 billion dollars. Foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia that same year, which is not in the EU or has the euro as a currency, amounted to $3.4 billion and foreign direct investment in neighbouring Hungary, which is part of the EU, but is not in the Eurozone worth as much as $ 4.1 billion. So 300% more than in the Republic of Croatia. The reason foreign investors' investment depends not on the currency they use but on how positive or negative the economic climate and climate are for entrepreneurs in a particular country. I would also point out that I would agree with the prime minister that we will only have a positive and better credit rating, and it only means additional borrowing of Croatia. Once again, I note that entering the Eurozone at the time of the EU's biggest economic crisis is not wise, so don't come out like a goose in the fog that we've done before in history. Many who today will support this law will soon cry for the Croatian Kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95705	Wait a minute, you need to clean up inside the club too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95706	We, we cleaned our own, we cleaned our own inside the club. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues at the moment of the biggest economic crisis recorded, as counterpart Pavliček said, the unsustainable inflation caused by the hysteria around Covid, the collection of energy, the result of an earthquake in Banovna, and in the end, the still inconceivable consequences of the war in Ukraine, the government of the Republic of Croatia is pummeling into a new tragedy of a Croatian people called the Eurozone and the EURo. The purpose and purpose of the common currency in the EU was to bring together European peoples who had a centuries-old history of conflict and war. But the road to hell is filled with good intentions. The EU has created another political mechanism that the Brussels bureaucrats are taking away some of the sovereignty of the Member States. Economic Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman, known for his scientific work on the impact of money on the economy, envisioned the future of the EUR in an article that had a vicious title of the EUR-o economy, the Union, the EUR-o economic union according to political divergence. In the end, that's exactly what happened. The EUR-o instead of unity, economic growth and stability has become a source of instability and weakness. However, in order not to give examples of just right economists, we also have an example of George Stigerc, a Nobel laureate left-wing economist and chief adviser Bill Clinton who in his book.../The speaker speaks English./... also criticised the plan of the common monetary union. The euro area and the euro as such. Furthermore, we have a Moody political neutral economist who worked on applied projects in the IMF and the World Bank wrote an influential book on euro problems.../The speaker speaks English./... means highly qualified economic experts, right conservative and left clearly suggest that the euro is unstable and brings with it a number of problems. There is a clear reason why such a broad spectrum of people advocates reforming the euro system. The euro as a common currency does not work. None of the aforementioned persons have ever objected to the creation of the EU or acted publicly against the EU, nor does it want the euro to disappear. All support the EU's idea of the euro only clearly warns that the euro in its construction and current state is a problem for all Member States. The euro has not met its expected purpose and now everyone has a problem. The people have poor economic growth, and politicians do not want to admit they have made a mistake. Regardless of the warnings of such a wide range of serious people, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided politically rather than economically to introduce the euro as quickly as possible in Croatia, regardless of the possible economic consequences, without serious economic analysis and what is most important without critical consideration of the arguments of scientists primarily dealing with monetary policy analysis. To allow countries to access the euro, clear criteria were laid down economically, these criteria were called convergence criteria, the initial convergence criteria were based on real clearly defined real figures, today based on expected future figures. The main four ideas around which economic stability should be given in the common currency are price stability, sound public finances, exchange rate stability and long-term interest rates. In their theory, these criteria were perfect, clearly defined the monetary and financial characteristics needed to move to the common currency. The state must control its finances and must have the monetary characteristics of those countries that already have the euro, such as Croatia has never been or ever will be. These criteria have changed over the years, and the only reason Croatia has been granted the adoption of the euro is because of the effects of the covids of the pandemic on the economy. It is clear that the introduction of the euro is a political project of the ruling and they are not interested in the economy. Brussels Deputys are only interested in and exclusive the satisfaction of your master. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] The introduction of the euro for them is a bureaucratic procedure for changing paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95707	Mr. litre, thank you. Milanović litre thanks. [[Invadica Milanović litre: Whose will]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95708	The consequences will be expected by the entire Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95709	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. He'll be happy, Mr. Clinton, when you made him a left-handed man. Let us now go to one notice, first Mrs. Mrak Taritas and the announcement is next, as the meetings of the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Construction have ended their vote, our vote will be as announced at 13.00. So you're spreading the news. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95710	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. And now a little bit different than the last club had an attitude. So, I'm sorry that this important topic is important for our country and we talk about everything around us in a context where the light stage is unfortunately related to aggression on Ukraine, and when we look at some local situation then it's about the problems of our ministers who either resign or are in prison, that today, in fact, the whole morning was in the context of a new minister who will, in all likelihood, and we have no doubts today being voted at 13.00. We are absolutely certain that the introduction of the euro is one of those breaking moments in the history of a state. After all, as unusual as it may seem to us, we are officially entering the club of those successful, not only in Europe but also in the world, no matter how unusually we are in the context of what we all follow the news that is happening next to Ukraine, and we see that what is happening to us is not something great. But the problem with getting into such a successful club is that you're in that club the weakest or among the weakest and that's the task we still have to work on. But there is no doubt for us at least that entering the euro zone is the success of every country and so is Croatia. The introduction of the euro is the last part of the consensus in Croatia's policy that we have already established more than 20 years ago, and it was about our ambition to be a member of the EU and the support that all parties in the assembly gave the idea. After almost nine years of membership in the Union, the time, apparently, goes quite quickly, we are now outside the euro area door and we are passing the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in Croatia. In recent years, and today it has been so much mentioned here are the criteria of Maastricht, which are price stability, sustainability of public finances, exchange rate stability and convergence of long-term interest rates and let us now go to the side of entering or not entering the Eurozone, but these criteria and the fact that we have satisfied them or we will satisfy them hopefully, are a good thing. If we need anything in this country, then it's the stability of the major parts of our country and their compliance with those that are better than us under any criterion. In this proposal, calling on the Euro Introduction Strategy, it said that the benefits of introducing the euro for Croatia will significantly exceed any shortcomings. At this point, I don't have any particular reasons to doubt it and, somehow, I'm trying to believe that's the case. The benefits of the introduction of the euro are the removal of currency risk to the economy, the reduction of debt costs, the reduction of risk and the outbreak of the currency and banking crisis, lower transaction costs, the promotion of exports and foreign investments, participation in the distribution of euro area monetary incomes and access to the euro area financial assistance mechanism. And these are all good things for Croatia that give us a dose of security that we haven't had so far, and in the eyes of all participants in the global economy, we become part of an elite society in every way. The introduction of the euro has its own costs and risks. One of them, the one citizens are most afraid of is the rise in prices. That fear is justified. It should be kept in mind and all available means of trying to curb price hikes related to the introduction of the euro. This is particularly important, and also dangerous at the moment when due to the war situation in Ukraine and sanctions Russia is threatened by global instability in the prices of key raw materials and energy. It's usually a time when big and small speculators try to grab some of that instability cake, and I'm sure many will try it under the umbrella of the introduction of the euro. This Law combats the provisions on the obligation to double display prices in time before and after the introduction of the euro and relying on insight into the state and common sense of all of us who will simply avoid those services, products and their bidders who have raised prices without justifiable reason, as it writes. Perhaps a step further could be taken and prescribed that the prices that have increased during that period must be marked by a different color, perhaps even with a percentage of growth, so that all of us can be easier to recognize what has been accumulated and we find this collection within the limits of justifiable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95711	- Mrs. Crescent. Pulak will continue the discussion of the Centre, the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95712	Thank you. So here, I don't need to repeat that we support Croatia's European orientation, membership in all European-Atlantic alliances, and so here's the entry into the Eurozone, but the fact is that any change, any change, therefore, and this, too, is difficult, so we should also plan carefully and get support, whether, all parties involved, all stakeholders, especially citizens, must be sure that this change will not affect the quality of their lives, that there will be no increase, drastic price increase, that it will not come for example. and, I don't know, interest increases, their loans, too, and on the other hand, entrepreneurs have to be sure that there won't be any undue or unnecessary costs in this replacement. We must admit that today we are living in a very difficult time, Europe in some way on the threshold of recession, the impact of war and sanctions on the European economy, and let alone on our economy, it seems to be more difficult than it was initially estimated. The government itself is in the middle of a crisis, the ministers are changing like on tape, which shouldn't be a problem, otherwise, that here they are not changing because of the various affairs they are involved in. So we have a government in which, rightly, we suspect that it can run anything, let alone one of these complex processes, such as the exchange of kuna with the euro. We also have a country that is the second poorest country in the EU, since it came into existence, here all governments have so far failed to reduce state spending, we have a level of public debt that doesn't correspond to and the level of development, we have an economy and an economy that isn't robust to any, let alone, the shocks that are happening today. So today on this day we can't actually plan anything for the next 3 days, let alone what happens by June when a decision is made on what is going to be a fixed course, whether we have met here, finally all the conditions and whether we can meet all of them to join the Eurozone. Today we are here, according to these current indicators ready, but I say, here's who knows what's going to happen by June, here, we'll see. Today on the board, we talked to the Committee on Finance, and we talked about some specific issues that I will, here, ask again, just so that the Minister can hear, but also to stay and sort of get rid of, or answer to, another reading. We've got some answers on the board, but I'm saying it goes into some kind of explanation until the second reading. Some of them, here, I'll read here and from HUP's remarks and comments, for example. Here are the observations related to the Article. 8 which speaks of the fact that it is forbidden to increase the price of goods or services without justifiable reasons, so what is, which is justifiable reasons, or, uh, this is the right of people to ask, because we know and now we are in the case, in.../incomprehensible/... we are at that stage when inflation is in Croatia, here 5 and above 5%, there will be a change in prices, is this how this will affect and what will happen to legal entities that do not respect this article? Are there any sanctions in which they will be assessed for a valid reason, if someone did not respect it, what would happen to him? I'm saying, that's it. Everything here, HUP, was very summed up on that question. Also, questions are constantly about this rounding, is it, how important it is for informers how this rounding will affect the final price. What I asked was here on the board those bills that were issued in '22. A year, and for actually provided services from '22. years, and they were issued in '23. The year will be in EUR or in kuna, we get whether the answer is that it will be in EUR. And another question that we weren't on the board, but I can deliver well. We've been getting some questions since the HUP. I can deliver them to you, so if you'll excuse me. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95713	The Social Democrats Club is now up to Mr. Named Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95714	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, so when I found out that this law was going to the debate in fact knowing that I was on that committee, I knew I was going to have a debate about this, in fact I thought I'd have a very, very short debate in fact tell Croatian citizens I congratulated that we had a job done. In fact, this was literally one of the few policies of entering the Eurozone or becoming an integral part of Europe that is now being brought to an end. But then when you get the real law in front of you and you look at what it says in that law, then you realize that neither what was good, what was supposed to be good, and what Europe started building 50 years ago, those in charge didn't get it right. I mentioned one example today, and this is fixed by the way we convert the kuna into EUR, knowing simply that people who took interest, loans in kunas because they wanted to be responsible for themselves knowing that they were earning in this country in kunas had a little more interest than those who were taking loans in EUR. I apologize to my HDZ colleague, you may not care what citizens pay for, but I find it rather difficult to speak if you do, thank you. So once again I call on the minister, the government and one institution whose report we had on the board recently, which is the CNB, which boasted that in the last half of the year it has earned 60 million things on interest differences is both interest and exchange rate differences and that it has actually done a good job. And then when I asked what this same CNB did in accordance with those legal powers, they said nothing. Today I asked the minister here not to answer how much monetary sovereignty the Republic of Croatia has used over the past 30 years. I think zero, or there wasn't a single time that we used our monetary sovereignty if we didn't consider printing money into it. And now what's next? Today was a moment that was actually very similar when the first time the EUR was beginning to be considered there in the 1970s, a very similar crisis, very similar problems, and then people in Europe wanted to avoid wars, wanting to avoid each other's problems, actually concluded that perhaps the fact that we have the same means of pay in some way reduced differences. As true or not, some of the colleagues were saying that this was not exactly true, but we can remember the last major crisis in 2008 and that in 2008, the collapse or the disappearance of the EUR was being raised as a very serious issue. And many of these economists even called that the EURo could not survive, and then there were solutions to the Northern and South Euro, etc., but today we have neither the Northern nor the Southern EURo, nor the EURo fell apart as a currency, nor the European Community fell apart, but survived. She survived probably because the EURo survived because it is much simpler through monetary policies to protect one space than if this space has several separate monetary policies. What is the monetary policy of a country? It's a good thing for that country, but it's usually a shame for the other guy he's dealing with. If we raise or drop the course it affects the price of our product somewhere out there and we practically mic by mic we enter some kind of man would say war with rivals. It's never a good war to see today because things are happening war that we all in Europe believed would never happen. And then recently I heard a genius statement from the CNB that says that even after we create the EUR we will have enough foreign reserves to reintroduce our own currency if necessary. In order for something like this to happen, I don't know if when the minister answers it can explain what should happen that Croatia has to reintroduce its own currency and what the price of it would be and what the power of us as a society in relation to the environment would be at that moment. And what we need to think today is that this space where we live has become an integral part of a European state at this moment, i.e. I often say it in the United States and that our strength in this area is defined by the people and the economy that these people are doing. And that's what we should think and worry about today. Demographic policies that we haven't had de facto will one day say we won't or we'll have a lot less people in this space. If we're going to have a lot less people we're going to be able to produce a lot less and we're going to be much less influential than others. Our task should be to start thinking about how to contribute to the Croatian economy and how to contribute to Croatia's possible response within the EU. To talk about some sovereignty, that this sovereignty is achieved by printing money I think it's literally insane in today's world, that the only sovereignty that can be achieved is at the moment when you're economically strong, when your citizens are satisfied and when these citizens don't see their future elsewhere. And today our citizens see their future in these countries that, under our conditions, are unsovered to Ireland, Germany, France, etc. So I invite all of us together to agree on some other policies after we have implemented one policy that has been agreed on in this country, so that this space where we live would be stronger and more sovereign for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95715	Thank you. The last club to speak before the vote is the Club of Representatives of the Most Mr. Troscott, so Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95716	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. The Croatian economy is not ready to enter the euro zone. No more serious structural reform has been made, we are not withdrawing timely EU funding, we are not protecting our agricultural land, but we are losing about two and a half paved bridges on unused agricultural land annually. There is no flexible economy that we see best in the index of economic freedoms where in 2022 we are in 45 places side by side with Jamaica. In the last eight years, we have donated an entire budget to the Government of the Republic of Germany, i.e. 170 billion kuna, because we have expelled more of our people in those eight years than in 46 years has driven Yugoslavia away. And every new recession according to Mandel's model when we enter the euro area will continue to speed up the emigration of Croats into the diaspora. The euro introduction argument as the largest part of our trade exchange takes place in the EU is accurate but not comprehensive because the introduction of the euro reduces the risk to foreign exporters and does not increase the competitiveness of Croatian products since we are an import-oriented economy. Only membership in the above-mentioned international EU does not ensure economic development, as the development ensures national economic policies that Croatia does not have. By entering international organisations without all domestic development policies, Croatia becomes an easy prey for global speculators and is best described by Nobel laureates Josef Dragovic, who described in his Euro book how the Dutch asked Greece to move the period of milk from 4 days to 11 so that the Netherlands could then start exporting GMO milk to Greece. The thesis of easy prey was somewhat confirmed by the governor of the Central Bank of Slovenia Mitir Gaspariv when he said the Croats must remember one thing as new members. The European Central Bank’s policy is one monetary policy regardless of what economic developments are in certain countries, and this policy always or almost entirely corresponds in Germany, and significantly less corresponds to individual smaller euro area members. No matter what, you've decided on the euro. The CNB is an institution that should co-ordinate the entire changeover from kuna to euro, but how it will be possible to do so when the Croatian National Bank, with this leadership from one of the most prominent financial institutions, becomes an ordinary cave of bandits. The leadership of the CNB has pushed the citizens into executive slavery in the context of the debt sold to the agencies, in credit slavery in terms of mundane minuses and real estate slavery, since the vices of vulture governors over the property they buy from the Agency for the collection of claims. The CNB with this kind of leadership has financially enslaved and shackled the entire people and worse than the Africans once did. And why do you think the current leadership of the CNB that behaves like the infatuated Russian oligarchs will bring you anything but economic currency and inflation slavery? On the wings of this economic slavery some CNB jokes governors buy and drive their private planes and from the blue heights perform a super vision, i.e. monitoring the suffering of Croatian people who bleed daily, wipe out their tears and day and day try to restore stolen dignity. If you have recently refused to legally protect consumers from financial hyenas sent to people via the Agency for the collection of illegal debts in old age. How do you think the Ministers protect citizens from now on the great risks that the introduction of the EUR brings? Nevertheless, more and more loans are being raised in kuna regardless of the CNB and regardless of market conditions. The share of kuna loans since 2015 has increased and has a trend of growth and nevertheless you decided to introduce the EURo. You have not prepared the state, the market forces do not function as best seen from invisible hands, but not those described by Adam Smith in his capital work by the wealth of the people, but by those invisible hands of the ruling coalition that steals the equivalent of 15 Peljeka bridges, or 60 billion kuna, through corruption. And no matter what, you decided to introduce the EURo. What is noticeable from the analysis and very important is that by now there is a drastic ferocity of prices that are not the product of rising energy prices but exclusively the fact that some companies and traders are using this unregulated space and time to raise prices to heaven. You didn't do anything to help with the fuel excisers that you incredibly filled your cash registers on. Instead of abolishing them and really introducing control protections on both energy and wild prices, you're putting the lines on the gas stations to keep people waiting for hours to save 12 kunas on one tank. Imagine how much this price pressure will be when we enter the Eurozone without any price controls, structural reforms and strong institutions. Slovenia, on the other hand, had an inflation of 7% to 8% in much better, better economic conditions, and that Croatia will go through this whole economic situation and the environment is a big issue. And no matter what, you decided to introduce the EURo. Based on what I have presented and what we have presented as the MOST Club, it is our duty to warn the entire public that after every new recession in the near future once we enter the Eurozone the only thing we will be able to do from politics is to cut wages and unfortunately fire our workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95717	Mr. Petrov, come in. Please wait a moment, excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Petrov, just a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95718	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, I expect Croatia's salaries to rise as well as the cost of living. Is that fair? It is. Is the Croatian government able to do that? There is. People will not be concerned with the rise in product prices with Croatia, inflation that is unconstitutional if their wages are rising as well. The government is unable to raise Croatia's salary to a European standard. All right, then control price growth because what is currently happening is that prices of products are wild, growing, the control mechanism is gone, and then the government is not actually conducting structural reforms that would lead to Croatian wages growth, allowing everyone to raise prices as they will without any control mechanism actually allow people in Croatia to be re-deployed. The story of this happening, that price rise for geopolitical reasons is throwing sand in the eyes. War in Ukraine, yeah. Prices of products and services began to rise before any war, so this is no excuse even from product services, banks and states all raise prices. There is a price adjustment control mechanism to be introduced before this situation. Is he in? It's not. The moment all the prices are up, then they'll be introduced and everyone's gonna be innocent and silly because there's nothing wrong with it. And the prices of products and services have skyrocketed. And the government decided to introduce the EURo. Okay. Then take responsibility, do it right. So let them decide to choose a direction or they will control the prices or raise Croatian wages. I can make changes to the legal frameworks both, but please choose a direction. And if you say you're not able to do either, then don't be angry without any offense, you shouldn't sit where you are because you were sitting, sitting someone else or sitting nobody else's going to happen to Croatian people absolutely nothing will happen. Maybe even in that case there's one important change. There might be a little less corruption and a little less clientism than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95719	Thank you very much and now we're putting the debate in stand by and I'm going to take my place and wait for the conditions for the vote to be created.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95720	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, the break is over and we continue to work, so on behalf of the SDSS Club, the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac will now speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95721	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance. This law regulates technical assumptions, technical circumstances, technical conditions, adjustment of the transition from national currency, Croatian kuna to the euro. So there are a whole series of important technical assumptions that are mandatory on the one hand, and on the other hand extremely significant for, not just every citizen of ours, every company, every institution, every business entity, and in that sense, it has a primarily technical character of the implementing law. However, for all of us who have debated or those who will discuss, other than these technical assumptions, the issue of the advantages and disadvantages of the introduction of the euro is always being raised. The topic we are discussing from the moment we have signed the EU accession treaty, and before that we have debated countless times and there are two schools, one that is for the euro, one that is against, one that is for the preservation of national currency, one that is for its retention as a mechanism that can be beneficial to the conditions of our economies on the wider financial market or the protection of our economy under the circumstances of other economies including the financial market and schools which, of course, advocates the benefits of integration in the euro. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, I will present some of the fundamental advantages of introducing the euro, which have already been discussed, but it is important to repeat them. It's a matter of price stability. In particular, in these circumstances, marked price instability as we witness due to the circumstances of the increase in energy prices or energy supply crisis and not only before the war in Ukraine, so at the time of the pandemic, the crisis of supplying certain types of goods and increases created in the circumstances of the restriction of communication in international trade caused a sharp increase in the price of construction material and not only of construction material but also of all other types of materials. So that fact is certainly in favour of the introduction of the euro. Cheaper terms of purchase and sale and participation on the commodity and money market are quite safe for business entities much more favourable if we have the euro than we do not have it. The improvement in economic growth and stability is listed as one of the reasons, and this is also the place where there are the most disputes whether or not the euro brings it, unlike the first two where disputes are significantly smaller. I'll say more about it when I talk about the shortages. Greater integration into the financial market of money and, in general, the financial market, that is true. So with the euro as a currency covering the vast area of most EU member states with the intensities to be a strong and competitive monetary union compared to other currencies in the world, it is quite certain that integration into such a monetary system also enables greater integration of our economy and our society into the financial market. The increase in investment, of course, can bring it in itself, but as we can see, there are a whole series of other factors that can affect it, which are non-financial nature, which are non-economic nature, such as the circumstances of a crisis of different types including crises that bring war conflicts, which bring confrontations of global proportions. And more favourable terms of credit. It is something that is rare to dispute when it comes to the introduction of the euro, it is certainly for, not only for the economy and for the economic operators, but for our citizens, and we all know that the conditions of credit were such that we have suffered huge differences with other countries in the EU. More reliable deposit keeping in banks. Yes, as to the interests of banks and the security of banking business and the preservation of deposits, that's right, so far. If we are convinced that the whole concept to which we approach will have longer sustainability than at some point seems. The last and most important is the accession to the European Stability Mechanism. It is a mechanism, as has been said here many times, that should compensate for differences in development, differences in the number of parameters that exist among EU countries. The mechanism is important and it is an advantage and will also be an advantage for the Croatian economy, only the question is whether it is enough. And now we're going to go over the elements of the defects. The shortcomings that are partly monetaryal, partly non-monetary, and also fundamentally non-monetary, nature to which those monetary policies of the European Central Bank and key states within the EU can have a more significant impact in a negative way, and can have a positive impact on those words. First of all, it is an inequality of the level of development in the Eurozone area. So a degree that unfortunately does not decrease but in some cases increases. In some cases it decreases.../incomprehensible/... In some countries, it decreases by a number of parameters, but in some cases, it is the area of Southeast Europe, or southern Europe where it still does not decrease. We will not give an example of Greece and resolving its debt because it is not a good example, it is neither encouraging for our opportunities, but it is one of the possible examples that show what an unequal level of development can lead to, within the Eurozone area or within the EU area. Unequal labour movement, unequal business cycles that are not synchronised to each other, important elements that may cause shortcomings in the introduction of the euro. The deficit and debt in the less developed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the surplus among those who are more developed and most developed within the EU, and that is probably the central deficit, the central deficit, which many countries within the EU are complaining about. To this end, the European Stability Mechanism should make adjustments, but it is still not effective enough in this regard, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the relations between the powers still in place within the EU that should be affected as much as possible by those who are stronger and stronger economically, politically, avoiding national coordination of the budget, which brings the less developed countries into a difficult position. These are all the things to think about how and how to bring political resources and economic resources of the Republic of Croatia as much as possible, its society in economic terms and its society in a developmental sense to a more favourable position than other countries. In addition to all the shortcomings that we have listed and which we are aware of, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this law and support the process of introducing the euro into and joining the Eurozone of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95722	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95723	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Usually in the Croatian public, when it comes to the introduction of the euro, we listen to the cost of benefit analysis and it should be said that it is rare to hear comments about the very real risks that exist after Croatia becomes part of the Eurozone. I'll talk about it first. So in one last debate here in the Parliament, Governor Vujcic said that only the introduction of the euro is actually one reform measure. I asked him if this is a replacement for reforms that are not implemented, especially structural reforms where Croatia lags behind other countries and for years changes are necessary and delayed. And in response, he said that the euro as a new currency is actually entering this reform effect. I don't agree with that, so the currency itself can't change business conditions suddenly and overnight. So, many economies, and this experience has shown for the past 20 years, the euro is more like a noose around its neck than a cause of economic growth. So the analysis is that there is no doubt that it serves strong economies, primarily countries like Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and others, it is not controversial. But what about those less competitive? There's a whole different story. So this is the first finding that what appeared 20 years ago when this great, I would say, experiment was not fulfilled promise that convergence and greater productivity would take place in the poorer members of the Eurozone. That didn't happen because that difference is still very big, today. Secondly, it is important to warn of major financial interests, even if I do not say, the irresponsible behaviour of certain funds and banks within the Eurozone. So we need to be aware that when Greece was saved in that famous bailout fund, in the end, I think that the bill was with former German Chancellor Merkel that it should not leave Greece to the Eurozone because the owners of the Greek debt, the Greek bonds were French and German banks and they would not actually survive that shock that Greece would leave the Eurozone and that is why billions should be gathered to save the country and the Slovak government fell, fell at that point because it did not want to participate in that decision. This led to the fall of a government that did not see the need for it to take part in the rescue of Greece, and today, the same crisis can be repeated not only with Greece, but with other countries. However, I would like to ask one question to the Minister about the contribution to Croatian bonds within 10 years. So, with a 10-year maturity. This yield is rising rapidly, so from last year when it was about one percent below, it seems to me 0.4 or 0.56%. He's already at 2%. It is a huge leap, a huge leap in the offering of Croatian bonds, so the question is why is this happening because these are in much larger countries than we are serious earthquakes. So the question arises, and what are the main interests in the background. So I will remind myself of the policy of the European Central Bank, the Central Bank of Frankfurt concerning the previous financial crisis 10 years ago which actually caused a major recession in these countries. Thus, the European Central Bank gave in quite suddenly and gave up its solid currency policy. The deficits in these countries have soared, it has suddenly forgotten how much public debt can be, how much the annual budget deficit can be, and so on. So we see that these principles that apply and that Croatia needs to meet these conditions are quickly forgotten when something extraordinary happens, and in fact it is only a matter of time before the next shock or recession happens in Europe. It's already happening. So, in the context of the global economy, Europe is losing the race. So, the annual growth of the euro area when compared to the United States of America that I'm not talking about China, suggests that the euro does not meet that promised effect anywhere near. In fact, many members are constantly in a kind of long-term recession. So there is a lot of risk, and this is not really shown to the Croatian public. It's not showing. So over the past 20 years, the total euro area economy has on average not achieved GDP growth more than one and a half percent per year. I'm talking total. And that is why it is not by no chance that some countries that are much more similar to us than the Netherlands and Germany like Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary do not rush into the euro area. It's not an accident. So they are aware that they are not ready, that they are unable to benefit greatly from it and delay accession, have their reasons. So the question arises why is the government of our Andrej Plenkovic so insisting that we adopt the euro next year? So what's the rush? Because we haven't really spent what it takes to make our economy less vulnerable, to be really competitive, first of all, from public administration not to talk about the health system, the pension system and the like. So these necessary changes that the government must and must have already implemented are not implemented, but offers the introduction of the euro as I see it as some sort of replacement for what it has not done so far. And I think there's going to be a very quick one sobering, one sobering of our people when they see that nothing has really changed. Eventually, our politicians may be able to benefit from this because on some occasions and conditions, it will be easier for them to be in debt than for Croatia to be outside. But that's just for their short-term plans. Croatia as a country I am afraid is not ready and unable to benefit greatly from this. So we urge the Homeland Movement to reconsider the teaming of the introduction of the common currency. So I'm saying this not with some emotion especially towards our Croatian kuna, but I'm saying purely rational, economically, analytically I think we're far from being able to prosper better within the euro zone than outside. One more thing. Great pressure is being put on other countries first of all by Germany on the so-called. harmonisation of tax and fiscal policies. Minister Maric must know that well. These are European debates, which means, on a longer period of time, less freedom and less space, a narrowed space of decision for individual members because pressure from large ones will be imposed to comply with them. So we'll lose that little sovereignty that's left if we approach. So far, we are not exposed to such pressures because we have not become members of the euro area. So that's what we should take care of. Today, Croatia is a rather small country compared to others. How much we really have to decide on our own tax policy, fiscal policy and the like. I fear less and less, and that raises a question of great importance. So, as countries like ours that have recently joined the EU, we can still benefit from this. It's not simple, we haven't really faced the legacy of socialism yet. Our habits remain the same, unfortunately, and I'm afraid this change will not cause the real changes we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95724	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative, Kreso Beljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. First, I would say that the HSS as a party welcomes the introduction, finally the introduction of the euro, and we do not consider it a bad date. We think we're late in that whole story. We are late because the whole of Croatia is late with all the integrations we wanted and the goal was still there in the first referendum on Croatia's independence. In addition, there was a desire, a great desire, no referendum, a referendum came later but a great desire for a united Europe. We all remember, and I believe colleague Škoro remembers his late colleague Tomislav Ivčić and songs about Europe. We want to be one of the European stars on that flag, which is a 1991 song. Now, many of them are skeptical whether it's time, is this, are we ready, are we going to lose the sovereignty that we have and Minister Maric probably knows more. But I will speak what I know personally from personal experience and all those who are over 50 years old also remember very well. That someone was in 1991 or '92. Or '93. I don't think there would be any debate about it, because all the prices were in marks, there was a wild inflation of the Croatian dinar at the time. And it didn't count any more in dinars. The prices are, so I'm talking about time, time of some kind of half-grey or gray economy correct me. I think you agree. Prices were practically in stamps, even in brands could be bought on gas stations, in shops, in markets. So, Kuna was a means of making very high inflation, inflation rates when you got the salary you got, you immediately turned it into stamps because the other day wasn't worth anything. I ask the question in order to react to the previous state part which Croatia was also there in the 1980s, the end of the 1980s to offer to enter the German brand zone. Why am I talking about the German stamp now? Because Germany is an exemplar, i.e. an example of a country that had one of the world's strongest currencies and which gave up on behalf of the common currency, the European currency or the euro. It wasn't easy. I, on the occasion, lived in Germany right at the time of this conversion and it was not easy for the Germans to give up the national symbol, and in the right sense the word Croatian Kuna is certainly not such a national symbol in Croatia as it was in Germany. And wider. So we also had a hundred marks, and you will often see today a hundred marks that some regret about that bill how beautiful, good times it is. So, despite this terrible inflation that marked the beginning of the 1990s, I think it was '95, '94. It's gone somewhere. So, the course stabilized, if I remember correctly when the Croatian Kuna was 4.7, so something fell, it fell below to 3.7, or the mark was at that time. So, from these times to today, we live in a time of Croatian kuna that is relatively stable, not relatively but absolutely. So, the course hasn't changed too much, but despite everything else, a large part of the price of special real estate, so houses, apartments, cottages, cars and today's day is expressed in euro via adverts or if you agree to any purchase. So, on the question whether we are part of the euro zone we are not officially de jure yet, but de facto all the time we are and that is the fundamental difference between Croatia and all other countries that two of us are about whether to enter the euro zone or not. They do not have this system, the mental system of thinking as Croatian citizens do. And not only Croatian, but also wider in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro if I am not mistaken is the euro and the official currency. I'm not sure now. I know they had a brand, Boric will probably know that. I don't know what it's like in Montenegro. So, official currency. Anyway, I think it's going to bring a lot more positive than negative things and if there's going to be negative things about it you don't need to keep quiet. That is why I propose to Minister Maric and to all those responsible for monitoring the process itself we will believe, I am sure with the great majority to vote the law, to approach the euro process itself. But now there comes this "but" around the technical part, where it can be mixed, and there are Croats world champions or at the very top of the mixing. And there were talks about, I think that Dretar spoke about whether there was a possibility that part of the replaced kuna could be transferred to BiH and then changed twice. So he didn't say it in his mind, that's what he said from experience. So, we have a lot of experience with the voices where people from Bosnia and Herzegovina vote twice, from cars that ended up nowhere in the 1990s, so when they came to the police and said someone stole your car they said they were looking for him in Herzegovina etc. So we have experience and it is not memorized so that you should be very, very careful that no known mixing happens in this case, so known Croatian mixing and no problems occur. I'm also a witness, I repeat, I lived in Germany right at the time when the euro was introduced from the stamp, that something that cost 2 stamps, and it changed the mark to the euro at 1:1. So, the chocolate that cost 2 marks the next day cost 1.2 euros or 1.3 euros. So overnight things picked up practically by ten, fifteen, twenty or how much. It happened in one Germany, in a regulated country where people simply had this optical effect aha this now cost 1.2 yesterday cost 2 things, not simply perceived as a pick-up but as even a cheaping, so it was an optical trick that worked in Germany big, big merchants in a way that actually made enormous profits in one day, practically in one day it all gathered. And another proposal, Minister Maric was talking about rounding up, so he's going to round up to how many 4, 4-5 decimals will be the exact course, so he's going to round up in the way we learned in elementary school, and in elementary school we taught that numbers that go over 5 in those third decimals are rounding up, and less than 5 are rounding down, if I remember correctly, my colleague Škoro correct me, right, that's basic school mathematics. But the mathematics of the Croatian school says vice versa, that what should be rounded up into less, and what should be more to the lesser, and that is one specific feature of Croatia, the Croatian people and us as such, let us be honest with ourselves. So when prices are rounded or the euro is rounded against the swears, let the commercial prices, in the trade prices, be rounded to less, and in the wages and all other things that go to the benefit of the citizens, let the citizens be rounded to more. It is a well-intentioned proposal, and at Minister Marić, who is the most capable or one of the most capable Croatian ministers to show his ability and to protect the largest Croatian citizens in order not to lose Croatian citizens at the expense of the huge profits and profits of banks, shopping malls. There, this is the task of the ministry and Mr Maric, and as far as the introduction of the euro itself is concerned, I personally and the HSS welcome him and hope that the next and final step in these integrations will be Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. Since I had one minute left to say, there are no fellow Stiers here, he said in his debate that he is glad that Croatia finally stops being a border periphery, I will correct him obviously does not know the good geography. We remain and we are, and we remain the periphery and we will be the periphery of the EU as long as in this whole process of entering both the EU and NATO the Pact and the Schengen and the euro area don't join in primarily neighbouring BiH, where I will remind you all of the same living Croats, until we are joined by Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Macedonia, until the border of the world is unfortunately moved where today is the worst, and this is Ukraine we will continue to be the periphery with all the fears and all the dangers that we are witnessing these days in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95726	The next Club of Representatives will be the one For the Righteous Croatia, and the Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Where to begin with, several times my colleague, Beljak, has apostrophealed me, so perhaps of his beautiful desires for rounding up. There's one item called price policy and you're not going to run into any other rounding anywhere but 0.99 or 1.90 means 99 is what makes our traders happy and I'm afraid there's one space that's always going to go towards correcting those prices on one side. On the other hand, at our club, we hesitate, we hesitate because we are, of course, for the even stronger integration of Croatia into Euro-Atlantic integration, and these latest developments show that this is a good, strong integration. And we are for the purchase of aircraft, but not used French two-engines, not for that money, not under those conditions. We'd rather get maybe one-stop-shops that are cheaper to maintain, we watch it that way, that's how we look at this. Yes, we want to be a part of the EU, that we want to be part of this humanity, that we want to be part of which NATO protects, but the issue that is being imposed all the time is just whether this is the right time to make just such moves. Your preamble says that the last financial crisis, I quote, has shown that stable and resilient states function much more successfully in the terms of the common currency than states that are burdened by their own economic problems. Countries that are burdened with their own economic problems and are dealing very well with them are Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Denmark. It's quite a solid society. I think we should be in this company. In Hungary, regardless of fuel, it is cheaper for 3 kunas than in Croatia, not to mention the Polish economy, the Czech Republic. I wish we could make this villa as Czech, Swedish, etc.... So I have to say some things because if I don't say them it would turn out to spit in my teachers' faces and everything they taught me about macroeconomics, and we know that fiscal and monetary policy is two levers that are terribly important and we here in this assembly hear, we hear that what this monetary policy and monetary independence is going to do anyway, because we haven't used it anyway, so isn't that enough reason to bring someone in and ask him, I don't mean in a negative sense of that word, but that's why you who have salaries of almost 50,000 kuna in the CNB don't use monetary policies to preserve what the primary goal of monetary policies is, which is, that's, that's a price stability. That's the basis of the whole story, and now someone's gonna tell me, now someone's gonna tell us that what happens to energy prices when people get 3-4 times the gas bills, and now the electricity is gonna help preserve what? What stability of what price? What kind of caterer, which entrepreneur, who will this man in Croatia after he gets three times the energy entry price will keep his price? It's impossible and you and I who studied it and our minister who is unfortunately absent know it. Our policy for the past 25 years has been healthy for granted, we welded ourselves first for the stamp then we fooled ourselves into the euro and we only took advantage of the importers and the banks. Material production zero, we are not competitive because of this ask anyone who deals with material production. What I'd like to say is that maybe we're using elemental logic, so I'm going to name a few premises and then we're going to get some kind of conversation out of it. With a desire for Croatia to be part of Euro-Atlantic integration, with a desire for Croatia to have a common currency with Europe, but also with a desire for Croatia to preserve its ability to operate in that segment in which as a member of the euro area it will simply not be able to act. So here's the first premise, in Croatia and Europe and in the world are inflation rates at the highest levels in the past many years, deny me if that's not the case. So galloping inflation threatens us if these geopolitical situations continue. It wasn't because it was fuel shortages, it was because people were afraid of new prices, and that's the premise that stands. I said once already the price of gas has increased three to five times, at a time when we look at the lines in front of the banks because there is a situation as it exists and it's reacted well, but the question of what happens tomorrow, and we all know how the banking system works. So if you bring 10 kunas to the bank anyone who thinks the bank guards your 10 kunas is wrong. It's not. There are some mandatory reserves, so let's keep that 10 kuna, I don't know, and put into reserve three, but seven goes into circulation, so it's the day after you deposit 10 kunas in the bank in circulation 17. So, at a time when we're out and we're getting a little out of the lock-up of the covida-19 pandemic, we're still wearing masks, we're still not sure how we're gonna deal with it to the end, we've spent 40 billion kuna to preserve some stability, 40 billion kuna, and we've grown public debt. At a time when there is expected to be further shortages of various raw materials and food, let us not be fooled to try to go to the store, some products are already missing. At the time of the migrant crisis, at a time when we after two devastating earthquakes had not completely restored a single building, during which we today appointed the 37th Minister in these six years of the rule of Andrej Plenkovic, and 22 of them had left their ministerial armchairs so far, a good part of them suspected of corrupting actions, so at the time of the demographic disaster of the Republic of Croatia, for which no one else was guilty but ourselves, at a time when the furious war on the European continent threatened to escalate and at a time when the EU unity was seriously violated. I don't know when the last time you sat in a car and, say, left Croatia for a European country, at every border we're being checked, and on the German border there are long pipes. On the border between Germany and Austria there have been long pipes for years, but at the border between Germany and Austria towards Switzerland around Bregenz are not long pipes. So Europe's unity lasts until the first migrants arrive at the border, Europe's unity lasts until, I don't know, someone feels from EU member states that they are in any way threatened and then put on long pipes. So, at that point we're deciding to introduce the euro, the question is just why right now? Why do we give up monetary policies and opportunities to work on the well-being of citizens and Croatia through interest rates and balance sheet channels? Is that why someone hasn't done it before? I don't know. Let's ask the governor of the CNB, let's ask those who conduct monetary policy. The only benefit that is reportedly constantly imposed is the avoidance of currency risk. So why are we even in this situation that we have currency risk? Again, someone has made a mistake in monetary policy, yet someone has not stimulated neither saving nor raising credits in kunas. And this, as a conversation, reminds me of a situation that our people will simply understand. So imagine the situation that Stipa and Anna are sitting in their kitchen and looking out the window on the street and on the street storm, rain, snow, ice, wind and whoever's moving out has boots, if I have to write a song just to save Croatian citizens, they all have boots, they have umbrellas, they have raincoats, they don't know they're warmly dressed, they're driving cars, and Stipa and Ana have no umbrellas, they have nothing, they don't have warm clothes, they don't have boots, they're looking out and they need to get out and they're blowing up the volcano at Vladimirjevac's and they say Stipe's you see now is the perfect time to go out and we'll be walking together with those who have umbrellas, who have cars, who have cars, who are warmly dressed, who are used to this storm, we're not ready to do anything. One thing we can expect when we go out in such a storm is to get wet. On inflation that is now also inflationary movements that are normal in the introduction of the euro, I think we will have big problems that our citizens are going to win, they will pay a billion and 700 million kuna just to convert and print bills, and they will pay two billion and something kuna to banks. Hold on, let's get into the euro, but not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95728	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95729	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Assistants, dear colleagues. So, and many have already pointed out, we have already committed ourselves to introducing the euro as an official currency and our euro is inevitable. However, the EU accession treaty also defined that the euro as an official currency would be introduced only after the requirements are met, as well as the provisions of the rules applicable to EU Member States, in which the euro is the official currency. Therefore, in order for a Member State to introduce the euro as an official currency, it is necessary to meet the criteria. The criteria are quite clear and so-called. the '92 mastric contracts relate to price stability, sustainability of public finances, exchange rate stability and convergence of long-term interest rates. And as the bill makes it clear, the criteria are set precisely to encourage Member States to behave responsibly that will favour economic stability and prepare them for membership in the monetary union. I mean, here I see that a lot of clubs have drawn that sentence from the very bill that says that the last financial crisis has shown exactly that, that stable and resilient states function much more successfully in the terms of the common currency than those that are burdened with their own economic problems. That is why it is in fact directed to introduce the euro in Croatia without meeting these criteria, so for the start of the general debt is certainly above 60%, however, the share of the flat debt in GDP is 87%, and we do not meet the criteria for stability of prices according to which inflation in Croatia should not be 1.5% above the average inflation in 3 EU countries with the lowest inflation rate, with inflation in January at 5.5%, and according to this criterion should be a maximum of 5.03. Why are we looking through our fingers, I think the answer probably lies in the Covid crisis, but here I am not really clear either, and I trust the citizens how risky it is, which are all possible consequences of the introduction of the euro with such unfavourable indicators and especially at such a sensitive moment, so when, when both the energy and financial stability of the entire EU is seriously rocking. In addition, it is important to say that when we talk about the introduction of the euro, that an adequate public debate has not been conducted, the public is not familiar with either potential benefits or potential negatives and risks, it is mostly not clear to citizens what they will gain or what they can lose. The very proposal for a Law that we are discussing today was not very helpful. For example, benefites list the need to replace currencies, which is at a time when we pay everything by electronic, phone, cards, watches, really funny to point out as an exceptional benefit that changes, I mean if it is, then maybe it doesn't need to be changed. And also, the most important benefit is the removal of the currency risk that the population, entrepreneurs and states are extremely exposed to in a country where the volatility of the euro-cun exchange rate has been below 5% all the time, so this volatility risk could be managed. Potential risks and shortcomings, which may also be more important, are mentioned poorly, and additionally in the bill do not include adequate mechanisms to mitigate these negative consequences. That's the way it is. 8 says, business entities are prohibited from the credit institution and credit union, payment institution, electronic money institution, financial service providers and public authorities when introducing the euro to increase the price of goods or services to consumers for no good reason. Nowhere is it clear nor is it stated that the ban on them to increase the price of goods or services will actually be implemented. Entrepreneurs may indicate a rise in the cost of production, sales costs, distribution costs, an increase in the prices of energy that happens to us, gas, oil, raw materials, an increase in wages, other payments, cost of life, inflation, etc., so in the entire Western hemisphere, and so on, each entrepreneur can choose for himself in his business policy and is free to form the prices of his products and services. Who will work and how will do a detailed check, an analysis of the economic necessity of increasing prices? So it doesn't stand at all, you say you're defending it, but on the other hand, it's not clear how it's going to either be checked or banned or confessed. The question arises and whether we will again have double criteria, for one entrepreneur, and for the other, whether it depends on party cards. Then the question arises as to what happens to the so-called Blacklists. In fact, the proposal for a national euro introduction plan makes it clear that the names of traders or service providers will be made public that are not based on price increases or miscalculating them. Citizens themselves should be allowed to report those whom they hold to have priced services or products unwarrantedly increased, so if they see that milk costs too much now, that they can tell which chain of commerce did it. After a body which is not mentioned at all because this is not mentioned in the proposal of the Law, such applications should also be examined, if confirmed, those traders and service providers who are trying to abuse the process to make extra profits should also be made publicly available to all. In this proposal of the Law, blacklists are not mentioned at all, it is unclear whether anything is working on this concrete plan and we really call on you to put it in the National Plan in the final proposal of the Law and I repeat it, to be defined and to make it clear that those who violate this Law will be published through so-called “the National Plan”. Blacklists. In addition, the penalties envisaged, so if, therefore, it is not clear how you will catch those who will eventually try to profit, it is not clear whether you will publish them, and then, if you succeed anyway, we get the maximum penalty for those who will abuse the 100 thousand kuna process, which de facto means that for example. Some trading chain that raises its prices and rounds them up and accounts for them at a higher rate, so that they can pay 100 thousand kuna fines you cut off still earns 10 times more because 100 kuna is the biggest maximum penalty, and it can achieve much more profit by paying you the fine and saying that, I was wrong. So it would be really good if the fines didn't bond, if they didn't bond, if they weren't so fixed as to bond with the percentage of traffic from last year. So it could eventually really be demoted by traders to abuse processes. Then, as far as art is concerned. 31 is not clear where they will specifically end up with withdrawing kunas. Will it be destroyed, who will do it, whether an independent control of this process is envisaged, which means proper care, when it comes to Croatian kunas, HDZ and others often have very different ideas about what proper care means, so I think our fears and questions here are quite justified. You too, Art. 55 defines that if, before the date of introduction of the euro into the credit institution, the credit union, the payment institution, the electronic money institution, the account holder has an account in the kuna and in the euro, within 60 days of the date of introduction of the euro, he shall have the right to close one or more accounts without charge and to transfer the funds recorded in those accounts to the account at his choice and the same institution. For this article, we think it is important to change the first deadline because it is relatively short, but more importantly, it is necessary to introduce the obligation to inform clients of this possibility. In addition, the notice must be sent in fact with a certificate of receipt to make sure that all citizens have received it. People don't know where they all have open accounts and they don't know where all the currencies have open accounts. I'm also appealing to this because of our pensioners. In recent years, banks have opened all kinds of accounts, kuna currency, multicurrency, giro, natural persons, bees, housing savings, etc. and people have no idea that they have an account somewhere, and that would really be important to be the institution's obligation to keep them informed. The entry into the Eurozone, therefore, as many of us have already pointed out, should take place in a situation where economic indicators are such that we can minimise the negative impact of price increases on citizens and when the introduction of the euro will not have a negative impact on the competitiveness of businesses. Since the euro is obviously to be introduced in a moment that is not so favourable and at a moment of insufficient economic situation, we are asking for real insurance to be made for these two situations, so that neither citizens suffer for price increases nor for businesses. For this reason we are proposing and we are going to conclude that the Government is providing a fund for the possible negative consequences of the transition to the euro from which the possible negative effects could be compensated which, for the time being, we cannot predict all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95730	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95731	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the HDZ Club will support this proposal of the Law in its first reading. What is key to stress is that the government has set the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia as one of its strategic objectives. As mentioned this morning, so it has been 10 years since the ratification of the treaty and it is indeed a process that has long and thoroughly been prepared, especially since our government and the Republic of Croatia entered the RM2 mechanism on 10 July 2020 and the first report on the implementation of the commitments taken to join the euro area was delivered on 7 May 2021, which was also reported by the EU Commission to the Member States. Indeed, the Republic of Croatia implements all commitments in accordance with the deadlines defined, and as you know, the National Change Plan for the Croatian Kuna euro, the Government adopted in December 2020 and gave a detailed overview of all the important activities that will be provided to participants, both in the public and private sectors, and in the framework of preparations for the introduction of the euro. So far, all the preconditions have been met, and these preconditions have been contained precisely by the criteria prescribed by the Maastricht Treaty of '92. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: What does that mean? It means that this bill contributes to the implementation of the exactly national change plan for Croatia's kuna, with the aim of making the Republic of Croatia part of an economic and monetary union whose currency is the euro. The Law itself, which has been delivered and presented, in fact, regulates the issue of the introduction of the euro as an official currency, the over-calculation of monetary statements for kuna-to-euro values, the supply and replacement of cash into kunas for cash money, the double circulation, in which, in cash transactions at the same time, the use of kuna and euro as a legal means of payment, and the double presentation of prices of goods and services, and the value of the amount in such a way that these prices of goods and services and values are simultaneously indicated both in kunas and in euro. Then, the continuity of the contract and other legal instruments, customer notification, infringement provisions and supervision of the application of the Law. Therefore, the Law sets out in detail all of these particular concerns, i.e. situations in which only the transition from kuna to euro currency can be reflected. During 2021. The Co-ordination Committee on Legislative Adjustments prepared the text of the law and as we can see during the public consultation had about 128 comments and they were carefully considered and reasoned. The bill itself regulates the general rules on the introduction of the euro. In fact, there has been a number of references here to what and how it will happen, however, both in public communication and citizens, and it will continue to be explained to citizens and legal persons, as well as to public legal persons in which they will display certain values and how they will act whenever it comes to legal persons who must therefore have shown values by the end of the year in the euro, i.e. in 2023. It is also very detailed on how this will happen. The bill provides that once the EU Council adopts a decision on the adoption of the euro and a regulation establishing a fixed rate of conversion, the government will announce the date of introduction of the euro. So far, it's that indicative course that's been published that can potentially vary 7,53450, so 5 decimals. That is, it will then be the starting date and completion of the double optics and the starting date and completion of the double statement and other issues needed to introduce the euro. Furthermore, the basic principles of the introduction of the euro are defined, i.e. the principles of consumer protection, the principle of banning unwarranted price increases, the principle of continuity of legal instruments, the principle of efficiency, economics and transparency and information. In fact, it is very important to note here that, and this was also a question on the Committee itself, so what happens to those insurance instruments that were given in the negotiation of certain transactions or in the introduction of loans and the like, so these legal instruments will remain as they were issued at that time, but they will remain after, but all those who are being issued from the date for which the introduction of the euro is scheduled, so it will then be announced in euro. So all that, the methodology in which it will be shown, how it will be paid, how it will be converted, actually the banks, FINA, and so, the Croatian postal institutions will actually have the base of this very central course and then they will be able to very simply make sure that the citizens themselves do not have to worry about bringing the euro but in that transitional period while it is still kuna, they will be able to pay the kuna, and the conversion will be made by automation on the very counters of the institutions concerned. Similarly, it will be in both the system and the adaptation of information programmes. Therefore, I think the Law as such has very detailedly foreseen all situations. It is up to us to make our remarks more detailedly possible, if we feel that it can be improved. In any case, we believe that the introduction of the euro is very significant for the Republic of Croatia, that currency risk is very important for our citizens and also for legal entities, that it is always a question of whether the time for any new introduction of anything is actually never going to be an ideal time for us. In addition, we could not predict, and also in the dynamics of the jobs that have been done, this terrible war that is happening in Europe will happen in the meantime. So that's something that's really hard to predict, but that in any case we need to do the best in order for our citizens to have an even better life in the future, that should certainly be done and I say, look at all the situations in which we can correct certain mistakes as the Law itself shows in a lot of detail. Here, once again, the HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95732	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will now speak the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Today we have a roof law, a law that will determine the future of Croatia, an economic, social, an entire environment in which Croatia will actually do business in its future, in which we will have incomes, in which we will actually have a broad impact on every segment of society and because of that before, even though this is technical law, there is actually one belief in why we are making something, whether it is good for the state or not. And that's why I'm going to talk more out of my own personal belief is that trust in the currency is actually nothing else is most important, is it, was that bill of paper kuna or euro it's irrelevant, is trust, what you can do with that currency or that means of payment and whether it can bring you a better standard is it? I am convinced that this is the best, best that could happen to Croatia. It's my belief and God gave it up that we could've introduced it before because today we're discussing whether we should wait another year, two, five, etc. Yeah. I say God that we could have introduced this before, because it would have been even better in Croatia if we could have done so in 2004 if Croatia had been admitted into the EU in 2004, that the euro could have been introduced as Slovenians in 2007. etc., Croatia would be much more developed today than it is, is that these are facts that show for all European countries and that is why I will speak from that part of my conviction why the euro is a good meal. Today we all talked about currency risks, exchange rate risks, etc. Let's just look at what it means overnight, one political decision to introduce an embargo, etc., what's going on in the oil market. Something like that that happened, I don't remember, I wasn't even born back then, back in the '70s, what happened back in the '70s when it happened. Oil shock? It happened overnight that prices have gone so far that inflation has affected both the United States and many other countries. What happened in countries where we were who didn't have a solid currency? They went bankrupt, went bankrupt after the oil shock, didn't they? You remember both the former Yugoslavia and the former eastern countries, etc. They just couldn't pay their external debts anymore, couldn't meet at all to buy oil with a currency that was overnight due to that particular oil shock happened, did it? And when we talk about whether there is a small economy such as Croatia whether it should have one such strong currency regardless of what it will bring to the Croatian economy, it will not make that adjustment quickly, it will not be simple, etc. Yeah. What can bring us not to accept one of these currencies? Well, we only remember all the countries in Latin America that had oil, that had oil, that went bankrupt just because they didn't have a solid currency. We remember Argentina and their debts, numerous other debts, etc., and they were rich with resources. It means how important it is to have a stable currency, a stable exchange rate, or one that investors and trust in that currency where they run away. You see what's going on today is, because of all of that, all of that capital goes away, or into the dollar and the euro, and regardless of this oil shock, the euro is stable. When we're talking here, when they're actually convinced, when it's said here just how much that exchange rate is going to be, here's just one simple example, here I've got a little bit of calculus before. So the total debt in Croatia, the total debt, the debt of the state, the debt of the company, the debt of the citizens, the whole debt when it comes to the sum, is about 200% of the GDP, so 80% of the debt of the state, 80% of the debt of all companies is because when they add up the same debt and 40% is the debt of all citizens, yes, 80, 80, 80, it means 200%, right? Of that debt that's about 200% of GDP here alone in the introduction is actually defined as that 522 billion debt is in the currency, in the euro is, and somewhere around 230 billion is in kunas, in kunas, yes. And now imagine just a banal, banal situation, right, so we said we'd go in here at 7.53, 7.53 that would be defined. Already today's course, or these few days, is the middle course gently slipping to 7.56, but you can't actually buy this, if you went to convert these 230 billion kunas you have, which you have to convert to the euro, you can't convert it, you won't get it by, by the banks, you won't do it by the middle rate, but they'll do it to you at the sales rate. The sales course is about 7.62 today. Just to go these 230 billion kunas on today, convert it to the euro or convert it to what we're going to do in the middle rate, or which is 7.53 billion kunas to you, right, 2.7 billion kunas somebody's earned. Now you're asking how hard money is to make money in the economy, how hard it is to make it to citizens, etc., terribly difficult, every kuna is turned around by citizens to earn entrepreneurs, etc. Just a conversion of these 230 that still needs to be done, making only on the exchange rate is 2.7 billion. Now you see whether this is a good thing for, in other words, when these 233 billion have to be converted when this course comes to Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs and states will not lose 2.7 billion, and someone else will not make 2.7 billion dollars on them. Just take this one banal, banal absolutely irrelevant in this whole story, how important it is to be part of something that the majority of citizens of Europe actually believe in. This kind of oil shock that happened on the stock market yesterday, this kind of increase in energy prices Croatia couldn't stand if it wasn't an EU member, it couldn't stand it, we're saying it openly, it couldn't be a stable exchange rate, it couldn't have, we have open financial markets, open financial markets at the time of the lockdown. I remember when I was a minister in 2013. Croatia couldn't access the euro, we couldn't, we had to go to America for dollars, so then take some courses, so on, you can't, you just can't eat. Today, the minister can be in charge of the phone, he doesn't have to go to... , he doesn't have to leave so he can access the capital to finance the standard of citizens, so that the standard of citizens doesn't fall. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's unimaginable in 10 years. in Croatia, how to, which means access. You see, they're talking about the Russians that they're going to go bankrupt by the 15th. If one big Russian influences, look what's going on with the laundry, what's going on. It won't be easy in Serbia either, why, why they scream like this, it won't be easy on pressure and on course etc. Yeah. It will not be easy for any countries, it will be serious in Europe, the pressure will be on the euro, the inflationary pressure it is, but then what Europe's instruments have, and what's happening to the banking sector is. So what is going to happen in Europe is not only to approach the euro area with one whole mechanism but to join the ESM mechanism is the European Stabilisation Mechanism. It's even listed here, nobody mentioned it today. And you know what that means? If the state finds itself in any kind of trouble, we remember before we always remember if there are any particular problems you have to call the IMF, right? So here's what the IMF is talking about when they're talking about Ukraine, they're talking about the application of the IMF, etc., the World Bank, etc. So, while Croatia is facing some kind of problem, all it could be because of one, it means access to the European Stabilisation Mechanism, which has an instrument worth EUR 500 billion, is. EUR 500 billion has access to the mechanism. Croatian GDP is how much? 50 billion, right? We approach a larger mechanism of defence and kuna 10 times, that is, to defend the economy and the standard of living compared to what we can do. So simply in these global stories, entering under one umbrella of the European Central Bank is not a gift from heaven but also a question of thanking them for wanting to receive us in other words. It's not easy being admitted to that club either. There are also a number of countries that have been waiting and who want to go to that club so they couldn't come so fast. So you see in the end Greece what was happening, why, whatever it was, it was 2104-'15. a huge collapse, etc., which is why Greece did not want to leave the euro. Well, of course they didn't want you to know that they were talking all the time we're going to own currency, we're going to return the drachma, etc. No, no, gentlemen, you asked a certain citizen of Greece, none of them wanted to go back to the drachma, not a single one. So I say to the EUR, the SDP Club will support it, not with one hand but with two hands and as soon as we enter because this is good for Croatia, this is strategic for Croatia and this will bring as difficult a situation as it is now. We don't need to worry that the consequences will be more difficult. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95734	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marin Lerotić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95735	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, we are pleased today to discuss this law or the Proposal for a Law on the Introduction of the EUR as an official currency, we have already clearly communicated that we are definitely in favour of Croatia entering the Eurozone. We also know that it is only a technical law here that should regulate some of the basics on the introduction or preparation for the introduction of EUR as an official currency. Since the beginning of next year, our citizens will be buying EUR bills, and double-out prices will begin 6 months before the introduction of the EUR and will last for about a year after the EUR-o becomes the official currency. However, this will be the first visible change that will need to be used to when we talk about the mandatory emphasis on double prices in EUR and kunas for all traders, as well as service providers. What I certainly want to point out is that at this point, the introduction of the EUR is really not speaking enough and we want to point out that we should talk more about it. Our citizens should be well prepared, they should be introduced because it is still a major change, and somehow I have the impression that there is not much to talk about so far, which is not good, because if all of this comes quietly, we could still be shocked in some way. That is why we believe that we need to know exactly what the introduction of the EUR as an official currency means to them. What I would like to point out is that the introduction of the EUR is a strategic, economic but also political interest of the Republic of Croatia which will further position our country within the European family. We have also talked about some, today we have had the opportunity to hear the economics and economic advantages of introducing the EUR such as the currency risk when taking the loan, and unfortunately our citizens are very well aware of it when we talk about the loans they had in Swiss. Also, the introduction of EUR should make Croatia more attractive to foreign investors. This will also affect the credit rating of the state, leading to a reduction in interest on loans. In addition, by introducing the EUR, we believe that there will be a more favourable cost of borrowing. By entering the Eurozone, we also hope that Croatian exporters will become more competitive, and we know that they have been warning for years about the problems they have due to the exchange rate. I will return to what I have warned before, and that is the fear of our citizens that the introduction of the EUR may also lead to certain purchases. Unfortunately, we live in times when the gatherings are increasing every day from food, energy, goods, so there is virtually nothing that has not collected, and as I was saying this morning, the government has to react urgently that this stampede is stopping or at least softening. Therefore, the introduction of the EUR and the imposition of prices must be subject to a special public increase in order to clearly detect and explain to citizens if certain purchases occur. Because the fact is that it comes daily, and it will happen without the introduction of the EUR, which is because of inflation, and unfortunately because of this war situation in Ukraine. However, in a political sense, what we want to point out is that by introducing the EUR, and then we believe that the rapid entry into Schengen Croatia is finally rounding the process of European integration and becoming an equal member with other members of the Eurogroup and Schengen area. We believe this is of paramount importance for Croatia because in these challenging and difficult times economic security and stability is one of the cornerstones of national security. The EUR-o as a currency is a necessary step in further development, but we need a rise in the standard of living of citizens. We need a clear vision of the government to secure new jobs, how to raise wages, how to increase the standard of our citizens either now when we pay in kunas or in a few months when we will pay in EUR. All this is only feasible with greater economic growth, tax redundancies, digitalisation, a reduction in red tape, a turning of sustainable and green development, and the important reforms for which this society is calling out. The introduction of the EUR in economic terms will certainly bring about some shifts for Croatia, but in fact everything remains only for us because we are the ones who need to encourage our economy, and to encourage the development of entrepreneurship of new values, we must work to reduce the state bureaucracy and the many obstacles our entrepreneurs have at the moment. Therefore, as I said, we also support this law, as well as Croatia's entry into the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95736	We move on to an individual debate, and I'm sorry, and we're going to have an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95737	Dear vice president of HS, the respected representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. All economic indicators in Croatia place Croatia at the very beginning of the EU, namely, we are the last GDP per capita, we are the most recent per capita consumption, the share of public debt in GDP is about 82%, currently we are all at 66% of the EU's average development, the annual inflation rate at the end of 2021. It was 5%. This clearly and loudly shows that Croatia is not ready to enter the euro zone because the worst is I fear only in front of us, primarily because of the Ukrainian crisis where energy prices are rising on a daily basis and prices of goods and services on a weekly basis. Nothing, but nothing will change in a positive sense by entering the eurozone. In fact, the EU is facing the biggest economic challenge and perhaps the biggest economic crisis in its history and entering the euro area now is anything but smart. In fact, there will definitely be additional price increases, definitely due to unwarranted price increases regardless of certain mechanisms proposed in this law. 43rd, which speaks of a double display of prices. In fact, even before the dual price statement in the conversation with the caterers, you can find out that the same thing will go to the collection or raise prices before they are in the obligation to double-show, this let's say a consumer protection mechanism. Also, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions what are the advantages of joining the eurozone, that there will be no currency risk that exchange costs will disappear, that interest rates will be reduced, foreign investment will be stimulated, we will have a better credit rating and we will have a very likely already inflow of tourists. A large part of these arguments, unfortunately, simply doesn't hold water. Currency risk, the Croatian kuna has been tied to both the German mark and the euro for years, we have a fairly stable course. As far as exchange operations are concerned, the fact is they will disappear, but a minimum of 2,000 jobs will disappear primarily from women working on the register of numerous exchanges that will end up on the job market. Interest rates will be reduced, interest rates depend on very high parameters, on the financial situation on the country's capital market, not on the current currency. Foreign investment will be encouraged, I will give you an exact example for 2020, namely direct foreign investment in the Republic of 2020. It was $1.3 billion, while foreign direct investment in the non-euro zone in the Republic of Serbia and EU member countries amounted to $3.4 billion that year, while in the Republic of Hungary 2020. which is a member of the EU, but is not in the euro area or is intended to introduce the euro as an official currency, foreign investments amounted to $4.1 billion. So absolutely no matter what currency you use to attract foreign investors. In fact, foreign investors have been bypassing Croatia for decades at a wide port, which is because of corruption, due to the negative business climate in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be noted that even the number of tourists will not increase, tourists choose their destination simply where they want to travel, regardless of the currency used, and much of their payments are made by card payments. The only thing you would agree with Prime Minister Plenkovic is that we might have a better credit rating. And what does he serve? Just so we can keep in debt. If that's the main reason, then we never have to enter the euro zone. Once again, we are not against the euro, but definitely at the moment Croatia is not ready to enter the euro area. Let's not get all goose-like in the fog into something we're not ready to do for the first time in history. And believe me, remember my words, those that today. When they vote on Friday they will support this bill, you will soon cry for the Croatian Kuna that you will send obviously into oblivion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95738	We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95739	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here today, when we witness one truly brutal aggression of one country to another sovereign state, today when we really couldn't believe that something like this could happen at all, when security is at stake not only in Ukraine, but in some way throughout Europe, the whole of the EU and its members, I think it's hard not to think that the only or commonity of all these Europeans can increase this security in some way, both politically and economically, economically and in any other security way. Croatia has met all the conditions and criteria for the accession of the euro, and I really think that we can be proud and happy that we did this precisely in this period before this happened that right now it is the right time to enter the euro area so that we are even closer to a common European policy with the European Community and thus protect ourselves. and their economic and economic and finally security interests. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95740	Please don't speak any longer than time is foreseen. The respected representative Milanovic litre has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which he was injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95741	Art. In 238, the Honored Chairman, a fellow representative demeans all MPs in the assembly by saying that the convergence criteria have been met. That is not true, Croatia has never met, nor at this time meets the original criteria that were voted in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95742	My colleague Milanović litre, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I am giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95743	They've been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95744	Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word, please take a seat. ... It's a real democracy, you can't abuse the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] It's democracy. ... Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95745	Thank you. Dear colleague, I agree with you, we are part of the EU, and we need primarily as regards the crisis in Ukraine to work together, but this does not necessarily mean that Croatia needs to lose all sovereignty mechanisms such as monetary sovereignty in this case, but what really is the fact that we have entered the EU we have made little progress in relation to other EU countries. Namely, in the meantime, since 2013. We have even been overtaken by a single Romanian by all indications, but we are collapsing and sometimes we want to be more Catholic than the Pope, unfortunately it is for us Croats through the past let's say one characteristic, unfortunately a bad characteristic and we have no one to prove ourselves to, at this point we need to look primarily at our own interest. Well recently, the Czech prime minister, he said three months ago, will not introduce the euro because it is not in the interest of the Czech Republic. Why are we smarter than them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95746	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95747	Dear colleague, I would like to know how you comment on the fact that the issue of the euro, or the introduction of the euro, has become a secular issue. So it is something that will certainly have serious economic consequences on the lives of all our citizens. In some other countries that many MPs often like to characterise as progressive democracies, for example in Sweden when talking about the introduction of the euro, the left has opposed it and had a referendum as a single democratic liquid. In us when the question of a possible referendum on the euro was raised and debated at all the introduction of the euro, things settled on, on the one hand, the Eurofile and on the other hand the Eurofob, or someone who should be the radical right hand and the rest under the allegations of the progressive world. We have thus lost focus on what is important and made it impossible for our citizens to actually discuss how the euro will affect their lives, and it will affect the lives of all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95748	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95749	Thank you. So unlike Sweden, the government there is not afraid of its people, and it has allowed a referendum to be decided by the people. It's obvious that the government is afraid here. The referendum on, for the protection of Croatian Kuna failed primarily because of the number of signatures required, although now that we see how many inhabitants there are in the Republic of Croatia and when we take away the juveniles and that number of signatures of 344,000 if we had the right voter signature would be enough. The second referendum is a referendum on covid certificates that you have launched from the Bridge that has collected a far enough number of signatures, and this referendum is obviously ruling not to be recognised because they are stalling or waiting for all measures to be abolished and once again confirms that they are afraid of their own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95750	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95751	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Pavliček, the minister said in his opening statement that the law was the first principle to guide the principle of consumer protection. When all this started out very pompously, blacklists were announced, so blacklists would be on which those who would abuse and use this situation to unwarrantedly raise prices, now suddenly blacklists don't, like they shouldn't, but we're all fair, beautiful, wonderful in a country where corruption blooms and there's at every turn, suddenly blacklists of all those who use that situation to hunt in the dim are no longer necessary and blacklists are no longer mentioned, so tell me what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95752	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95753	Here I thank you, excellent question fellow, but apparently Governor Vujčić answered this question of yours two months ago when he said that citizens should choose those stores where prices are lower or should buy where it is cheaper. So it's obvious that citizens, like you once said, only need comfortable shoes, so let them walk from trade to trade, and they will obviously not see these black lists anywhere that would be very needed because there will certainly be an unwarranted rise in prices that will primarily hit the worst standards in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95754	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95755	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. In fact, I've decided on a replica because of the last words you've said now are not the conditions for the introduction of the euro. So I absolutely understand and need to be people who think differently and it's good to think differently, where that would come from a society where we all think the same thing. It actually wouldn't be good and it's good to think differently and it's good to think about introducing the euro differently. I'm just curious about that last sentence, what do you think of you when these conditions are for introduction, if there were conditions, which would be some three basics, forget about mastrich and everything else, what you're experiencing living here to be the conditions in which you would say here are now the conditions for introducing the euro? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95756	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95757	Well, first of all, I think that definitely the share of public debt in GDP must be significantly lower than the current 82%. Second, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the average pension, should be significantly higher in order to welcome Croatia's entry into the eurozone. I think these are some of the main conditions at the moment. Unfortunately, we are far below the European average, so I'm going to give you an example here personally. My mother has 35 years of work, she retired from 2,300 and some kuna, which is about 300 euros, 300 euros, and in a month or already she's going to pay a crown of euro and a half, so she's going to need one 30 euros for bread alone, so 10% of her working pensions go for bread. Welcome to the Republic of Croatia, in the EU in 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95758	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra, please. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, and then she'll speak to the next respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95759	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, so today is such a strange day for all of us together because somehow we started off with a whole other topic in the morning, I'm talking about a local policy, and that's the theme of the new minister's choice, so somehow this euro-related story came up with some other plan, but let's just think about tomorrow it's going to be two weeks after Russia attacked Ukraine and what's happened to us for the past two weeks, but I'm going to go back to this topic that's the topic of debate. I am one of those who has no dilemma about speaking from this pay phone the views I have and the attitudes I have regarding the EU and the attitudes I have in the euro I absolutely think that this situation that is now, therefore the war we have, which will be a debt, which will be painful, which will be difficult, we will all suffer consequences, for Croatia incomparably better that it is an EU member than it is not. Imagine that we are not a member of the EU, regardless, I always think that we are better at being in a society of rich, successful and capable, and no matter what small state you are and no matter what criteria we are at the bottom, but it is incomparable that you are in such a society and that we will certainly open up questions that will soon be. The EU is all seen as someone where there are certain funds and related to the fund, it is not the EU. The EU gives a number of other things and a number of other benefits, and here we must also turn to the EU's common foreign policy. The topic that I always have about defense and the army is very much what I'm talking about with the reserve, but that's where the other topics will be opened. And about when it is time for the introduction of the euro or if you are of the opinion that you will introduce the euro always or if you think you should never introduce the euro because you will always find a reason why not. So let's be honest all together. Is Croatia saving in euro? Are sales in Croatia being made in euro? Whether the apartments, so all of you constituencies that you're not so far, I'm opening a topic that would be another topic, is always the subject of what the price is in the euro. Well, my people, we lived in German brands until the euro was introduced, we live in euro. And I'm sure nobody, there's hardly anyone who can convince me that for Croatia as such a small country where we are really in all these things at the very bottom better to enter the Eurozone because it is safer, more responsible than that we are in that zone. Now, I sort of do whatever things I'm talking about or thinking about doing something that I've been taught a long time ago, my profession taught me that you're doing cost benefit analysis for any decision. You know, once upon a time, and now I'm not gonna mind the vice president once it was that one space is intended for greenery, I said okay, that might increase the value of the property that's in there, so that's what these cost benefits are for you to see what's positive and what's negative. If I see that I'm more positive than being negative, I don't have a dilemma. At this point I absolutely appreciate that this one cost benefit analysis for us will be more on the positive side than on the negative side. We now know, at this point we know that the problem is the price. So with us, energy prices will rise, resulting in a rise in both the price and all the other goods that they are. So what should be a minimum so when two prices are shown, the price in kuna and the price in euro, where the price in euro is increasing without, we know why it is increasing. So, we know that there is that problem and that this problem will also have the problem of rounding up, when someone gets to 1.82 euros that they will tend not to go to 1.9 but 2 euros. And it's been through all the other countries, and it's something that can be ours, and it's probably a challenge, and we have to take care of it. So, a country that doesn't have 4 million inhabitants, I see it as an opportunity, which has the opportunity to enter the Eurozone, that its way of relations with finance and all others leads as other EU members is an advantage for us, and for us is not a flaw. The benefits, and whether this is the right time or not, so this is the right time to lie down at home and cover your head and wait for an atomic bomb, and none of them are going to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95760	Thank you very much. We have more replicas. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95761	Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, you said in your statement that you were glad that we were still in the rich club, even though we were the worst in some of the criteria. Unfortunately, we are in most of these criteria far the worst or among the worst not only in some. And as far as you're saying, people are hurting, taking loans in euros, people are doing damages or taking loans right now in that currency that is most favourable to them. According to all indicators, the economic last loans are mostly in Croatian kunas, not in euro. So I don't see this as an opportunity at this point, but as a great danger, we're flying into something that we're not particularly ready for right now, and the question of how the EU will succeed in this crisis and whether we're going to be pulled back by that common monet into even deeper financial delinquents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95762	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95763	Thank you very much. So what I said, I don't know when it's a good time. So we can absolutely agree there are two, three things in which Croatia is not at the bottom, one of these things is corruption, we're at the top. Our thinking about the situation in the judiciary is just as close to the top, and by all other indications we're at the bottom and it's depressing. I mean, no matter who the opposition representative is, I can come and yell and say, but she's depressed. This is my country, I live in this country, the picture of Croatia is my picture and I kind of feel bad about it together. I'm just trying and I'm trying to make the decisions we're making from this pay phone. You often base your decisions on emotion, but this is one of the decisions that has been prepared structurally, and whether we will enter the euro zone will ultimately not depend on us and you and we all know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95764	The next is the replica of respected MPs Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95765	Dear colleagues. Some experts believe that the introduction of the euro will also lead to the alignment of VAT and the reduction of some excise duties in Croatia because it will be a market that dictates everything in the economy itself. They also expect cheaper loans, noting that the euro area has the lowest interest rates in the world and that it will benefit the state and the public sector as well as the citizens themselves. Personally, I agree with them, and I believe that entering the euro area is impossible to remain undeveloped and that the introduction of the euro opens up a number of opportunities that we have not had as a state so far. I'd like your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95766	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95767	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I have nothing to add or take away from you. I'm just kind of always trying to get away from my own. Now you're going already to that situation when you used to go, so Italy doesn't know the lira, Austria had shillings, Germany had stamps, so you've been messing with it all together, that coma that you're actually traveling through Europe, except for certain countries, the euro is a serious communication. But look at your bills when you pay with a card, you pay somewhere outside and you pay the price in euro and you're charged for conversion. So your personal and my personal savings will be because there won't be any of those conversions. So these are the ones at one point you seem to be a little bit, but when you add it all together and you see that there's enough. I kind of want to feel like a citizen of Europe, and I'm really looking forward not to be Schengen or that we're in Schengen, and I'm really looking forward to using the euro as well as others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95768	The next replica is the respected representative of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95769	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, without a doubt, we can all agree on the benefits of introducing the euro, but what concerns our citizens is, therefore, some kind of public opinion that could happen by introducing the euro is, on the one hand, rounding the prices you were talking about and, on the other hand, rising prices. So, do you agree with the interpretation of citizens who came from the ministry or government that I quote "the effect of increasing prices by entering the euro area is one-time and that competition in the market will quickly do its part and normalise prices and cancel their growth", do you really think that's how it's going to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95770	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95771	Comrade Maric, thank you for this question. So, I'm sure, and we all know together that once certain things will happen at one point when what's always called us and the governor has called that MPs can come, I was one of those or at the club where we went, and we asked people what kind of experiences my people had, say, Slovenia is closest to us, and then it turned out that that price hike was about 3 to 4%, and that they were one-time behind it were stable. I'll just remind you and compare you to another situation. You and I took part there quite a long night in the discussion of reducing VAT to menstrual hygiene supplies and one of the reasons that was why it didn't go among other things, Minister Maric said because it won't shrink, you and I both have a chance to see that from 1.4 the VAT will be reduced, and already the prices are cut. So the merchants are following And everyone will follow the competition is the competition. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95772	Thank you. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Dark Taritash. You mentioned Slovenia, so in their let's say that in the process of introducing the euro they used already mentioned here in several examples of the blacklist. We see here, or are we not yet sure from this legislative proposal whether the Government has given up on them or yet they will exist and the introduction of an ethical code of conduct is mentioned, so here's your comment on what would be better for you to have a blacklist or an ethical code? What better or more effective protection will be given to Croatian consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95774	Thank you very much, fellow Dretar. I don't have you any big dilemmas, I absolutely think it's blacklist or whatever we can call it red, yellow, orange, green is the only thing that's going to be a warning to everyone. When you put on a list some chains or anyone went so it's not just a conversion but it's still used for something else is effective. We're a small country when I don't know what happens in Poreč. You know that at the same time, I don't know in the Vinkovci that it is like that or when you know that someone on the blacklist doesn't know it in the Pregrad, they'll know it's somewhere else. I always feel a little uncomfortable around here, but there's no other way, there's no one else for some things. So, when you have a blacklist of someone who used the change from kuna to euro for something else, it's absolutely the strongest possible message.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95775	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. I absolutely agree with you, especially you encouraged me because you mentioned that for many years now Croatian citizens have actually been kuna is a means of payment, but all that goes to calculate whether something is cost-effective or not they are still calculating into euro. Because you're asking someone here today in the House of Citizens 11,000 kuna squares of apartment, let's forget it. Today's the price, is that a good one or not? What will Croatian citizens do first? How much is that? They'll say, yeah, that's 1,500 euros per square, that's convenient. He won't say 11,000 kunas whether it's convenient or not. So he's already in mentality, I mean, I don't know when you're buying a car of $150,000. No, not if it's 20,000 euros I know I found it there in 18, 19. Look, so Croatian citizens have already accepted this and that's why I think this transition and transition will be much simpler than in some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95777	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95778	Thank you very much. I agree with you. So, you try your car and now you go to Snoop and you want to put the car on that Snoop and you give the price in kunas. So that program asks you to make your price in euro. And you're actually giving a price in euros. And it's not, so we have this one tradition remember, we're one part of the period it's us who's a little over the years we remember all speaking in stamps. There was no lira, no shillings or this, but it was spoken in stamps. When we move from brand to the euro we even today when you ask someone who is renting, how much is the situation and nobody says it in kuna but shows it in euro and then from the euro through the middle rate turns it into kuna. So we're thinking in euro. So we bring everything together and compare prices in euro. I absolutely don't have any dilemma about whether or not this is the dilemma of the moment. But there will be a global story, it won't depend on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95779	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95780	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues that you said well at the beginning of that term, that moment when we can do something in this case to enter and accept the euro as a currency. I'm saddened by how some colleagues say we're the worst at this, the worst of it, so comparing bread in euros and kunas is actually parity exactly the same. When we put it on whether it's 10% of the kuna value or 10% of the euro value. Besides, when we say we're so bad, we've had growth, here's economic growth over 10.4%. So, second in Europe last year. Therefore, when we look at inflation and we do not have the highest inflation rate, it was also higher in Lithuania, Estonia, Romania, etc. 6%. So, then let's just compete with these better ones and be in a better society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95781	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95782	My colleague Peović, so I don't know how many times I've said the same thing from this pay phone that I am absolutely a supporter of the fact that Croatia is an EU member, I am a supporter of getting into the euro zone, so as soon as possible if this moment is that, for the simple reason that it is much better to be in society of better, than in society of the bad, for the simple reason that they make you to be better, to be more successful, not to be more productive. Now, we're as slow as we are, so we'd be as slow as we were anyway. But this one, so we just ask ourselves the key question we have the war. We have a war. Kiev is about as far away from Zagreb as Zagreb from Paris, it is about that distance. Is Croatia better if it's an EU member or not? I think that regardless of whether you were a fan, you weren't a fan that the answer was clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95783	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95784	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash have somehow been energized by the narrative that it's all over. 1.1.2023. Croatia enters the euro zone. In doing so, there is one convergence criterion that refers to price stability and is calculated by taking the smallest inflation in three countries where the smallest inflation is plus one and a half percent, so if you satisfy it, that's it. There may be exceptions, but this crisis in Ukraine does not affect all EU countries the same. Portugal and Spain, for example, don't depend on Russian gas at all, on Russian oil. Now I'm going to ask maybe one question that everyone wants to ask but are we going to meet these criteria and are we really going to enter 1.1, specifically, when it comes to price stability, or inflation, inflation rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95785	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95786	Thank you very much. What you asked that question is very reasonable and it is clear why you asked. I said this in my discussion on two occasions so gently, but that was the answer to the replica. But whether it's in the end line won't depend on us, it'll depend on a number of other things. So the things that were two weeks ago were and the things that are today are different. It's already the whole story of raising energy prices and causing inflation, and we all know that. And the war in Ukraine has made it all better together, so we're preparing for it to be 1.1.2023. Whether it will be I hope deeply it will be, but for that I am not sure that Minister Maric has an answer at this time. As far as I know some more decisions will be made, some of the decisions will be in April, I think it's April that It's not over. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Or may? I wasn't sure if April or May. Only then will we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95787	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95788	Thank you. So you cited the introduction of the euro as one big opportunity as one safer, better and more prosperous environment and society and that is, of course, undeniable. But here I personally believe that this moment may not be the best, and so is most of our citizens. Here we had examples that the pensions of 2300 would turn into some 300-euro pension and that actually only the introduction would bring new purchases, additional inflation, that's undeniable. Our economy is this weak. Here, I would ask you to try to convince me, and most of our citizens who think so, why is this exactly the right time, and why do you think that we are now ready and that these negative effects will not reflect so much on the standard of our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95789	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95790	Thank you very much. So, what I did overtime, but even the last decision, I thought it would be in April, and the Secretary of State assured me, so he said May, apparently that I remembered the wrong date, which is irrelevant in this story. So here I am from this pay phone I said on several occasions that the question is when is the right time. For some things it's always the right time, and for some things if you have arguments that something isn't, it's never the right time. So some of the arguments we have will never be the right time. Let's see, so Slovenia when it entered the euro zone and when it moved to the euro prices were up to 4%, not to think but almost, almost certain. It is up to us to make it as painless for our citizens as possible, but if you have a pension and you increase, in kunas, but you have increased the price of bread, the relationship will be the same, whether it has been converted into euro pensions and the price of bread in euro, so it is always the same. I absolutely still stand for such a small country better to be in the euro area than not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95791	The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95792	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. When we enter the EU, then they tell us that it will solve all our problems, cause honey and milk to flow in our streets, today we see that it is not. Currently, the introduction of the euro is the Holy Grail that will solve all our problems and in principle we are constantly told that we have already declared that, at a referendum on the introduction of the euro. Now let's take a walk down to Ban Jelačić Square and ask people if you've come forward in a referendum for the introduction of the euro, I'm afraid the answer would be invalid. Neither did they know, nor did they think about it because I find it hard to believe that our citizens took an access contract, so they read it in such detail page by page. These advantages are constantly highlighted and it is nice to see positive but also growth in wages and interest, etc., all of this depends on us together, not on the introduction of the euro. And in principle, what we're talking about all the time is price increases, everywhere the prices of the introduction of the euro have increased, on average it's not that much, but when you look at the structure then exactly what is used on a daily basis there are the most rising prices. And now I have to ask a question while in Europe an angry war, while prices of energy drive wild how you plan to conduct an article. 6th of this law, which states that you will protect consumers from unwarranted price increases, and now how will you know what is the consequence of the introduction of the euro, and what is the result of the war, inflation and general uncertainty that has prevailed over Europe? How will you conduct the article. 8 of this law forbidding an increase in prices for no good reason? As you will make that clear to me, you probably know what the result of the war is, what is the consequence of the introduction of the euro, but it seems to me that the current introduction of the euro and the change of currency, the denial of monetary sovereignty in the situation where we are presently somewhat irresponsible because we will lose full monetary sovereignty by introducing the euro, and the CNB will no longer be able to lead a policy of interest in the event of some micro crisis, and such crises can affect our economy because outside the EU our main export partners are Serbia and BiH and can hit us with crises that have absolutely nothing to do with the EU. The structure of our economy is significantly different. If you look at only Slovenia, it has a double share of the processing industry in GDP than Croatia has. Developed countries produce technologically very demanding and sophisticated products, and we export wheat, corn and logs and, of course, it is a political issue because by introducing the euro, we are even more integrated into the EU, and this should be led by a broad public debate. As Minister Maric said, this will cost us 2 billion kuna, and in principle there are a number of costs that the CNB and the banking sector and the business sector will have, and in this situation when prices of gas, oil, raw materials, food, perhaps we could use it to ease all these, all of this savageness and increase in living costs. And, of course, in the end, I have to look back at the debauchery with the design of the coins. Shame, dilettanteism, and cremation of the worst kind. Vice Governor plagiarist defends the words he is a gentle artistic soul. What kind of gentle artistic soul? A thief, a smugler of the worst species, though inevitable since the competition was made unprofessional and without respecting the opinion of the profession. Of course, companies from the CNB deal in securities trading, buying luxury villas from the Agency to collect claims, and then they can't deal with such trivial things as coin design. They're embarrassing us at every step, and they're paid for something else. And there has been a lot of talk here about when it is the right time, when the average salary is like in Croatia, and the pension is even smaller by me definitely not the time to introduce the euro. When you have over 400,000 pensioners who have pensions of less than 2,500 kuna, we have to ask ourselves how they will survive all these price attacks they are exposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95793	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95794	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, Vucimilovic. Here, let me ask you as a top economist. A part of this story about the euro says foreign investment in Croatia will also be stimulated. So far, we have seen or been able to read by foreign investors to be bothered by undefined and bad laws in Croatia, to be disturbed by unsettled land books, spatial planning problems, to be bothered by the self-will of local sheriffs in Croatia and, of course, by powerful and at least for the time being indestructible corruption. So will the introduction of the euro solve all these problems that I have just cited? And thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95795	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95796	Thank you, dear fellow Dretar. You have beautifully cited everything that bothers foreign investors, and this is also the fact that countries that are not even members of the EU like the Republic of Serbia have a far greater share of greenfield investment than Croatia has. Of course, there are EU members who have not introduced the euro like Hungary, who also have far more foreign investment than Croatia has, so the introduction of the euro as I said at the beginning is not the Holy Grail that will solve our problems, as has not been resolved by membership in the EU. We ourselves must arrange our country, no one from Brussels, no one from Luxembourg, and no one from Frankfurt where the ECB is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95797	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95798	Dear colleagues. Croatian economist and university professor Ljubo Jurcic, who previously acted as economy minister, says that today, the minister would certainly not insist on introducing the euro now but rather wait for better times. I quote "Euro is a good currency, but for developed EU countries and countries whose economy can monitor development such as Germany, Austria, France, but Croatia is currently not in this situation and I think we should wait at least ten years for the Croatian kuna to take over to change the image of the Croatian economy because in Croatia we have a paradox that the kuna is solid and stable, and our economy has been failing for 25 years." He also reminded of problems and fates of the state such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy that have faced numerous problems of introducing the euro. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95799	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95800	Thank you very much. Professor Jurcic was very good at finding this and a number of the research that has been done in developed countries were also done by their scientists and experts who have been major supporters of the euro, and today they are not also the euro as a currency very useful to those countries that produce, they produce at a higher technological level of development. And I cited it means only Slovenia has a share of the processing industry twice as big in GDP as Croatia has. We, like some African state, sell grains, wheat, corn, logs very little there are highly sophisticated final products and we can happen to even euro to be a limiting factor in our development and in fact weaken our economy, not improve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95801	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95802	Dear colleagues. You're an economist, so you'll probably be able to answer the question I asked Minister Maric when he was at the pay phone. This is the question, how many times has Croatia used its monetary sovereignty or monetary policy in the last 30 years as something to get out of the crisis? How many times has the CNB fulfilled its task of price stability and interest rate policy? And why do you think delaying the introduction of the euro for the next ten years would change anything in this country for the better of the kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95803	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95804	Thank you very much, dear colleague Brumnic. I think it's an art. 3. The CNB law says that the first and primary objective of the CNB is price stability, but unfortunately our governor interpreted it and interpreted not only this but also the previous goal as the stability of the course. And that course is basically a limiting factor for ours and the factor for our exporters who finally reconciled and now finally say, but give me more of that euro is at least not going to have transaction costs. Monetary policy and monetary policy instruments were not used, and let's say when we entered the crown crisis two years ago then it was seen that certain monetary policy levers could be used very effectively in one part, in one segment when the CNB helped to stabilize some things, but it was probably the only case when it was used.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95805	Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95806	Thank you very much. You are a professor of course at the Faculty of Economics, so it's hard to talk to you about this subject because you're home, but it's definitely a little paradoxical of your lecture from keeping the CNB and kuna and the last few minutes where the CNB is essentially a source of corruption, luxury villas, securities, shame on our people. But back to the experience of others, so watch the time when other countries entered the RM2 phase, and Bulgaria and Croatia entered on 10 July 2020 and when they became part of the Eurozone we can learn a lot. Slovenia for two and a half years, Estonia 10.5 years, Latvia 8.5 years, Slovakia for more than five years, so look at Bulgaria and ours according to the Maastricht criteria we stand great. How we're going to reproduce it is already in trouble because of the covids, and now Zdravko Maric has succeeded in modifying these Maastricht criteria in part, and the European Commission has allowed us to partially modify these criteria But the key is, I'm sorry, the blacklist about it was a great point. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] A black list of merchants who will...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95807	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95808	And yes, these convergence criteria are something that is flexible and that is original, they have been corrected, but even like this, Croatia in the EU has one such privileged status, so we are often seen as a naughty child through our fingers, but that is probably why the secretary of state is so air-conditioned, we will meet the criteria for inflation, although this one is not a chance, and even the fourth one about making bonds is so problematic to me, but good. This means, as far as the blacklists are concerned, they're key. Especially in this situation where we are now in a situation where prices are wild and where our low-income residents are terriblely hit, on a standard of living where at 65% of the EU average our purchasing power is what it is, this price increase will lead to me not knowing. how the pensioners will make ends meet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95809	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95810	Dear counterpart Vucimilovic, one of the main arguments used by Prime Minister Plenkovic about joining the Eurozone, is that there will be an increase in direct foreign investment. But so far, we are truly at the bottom compared to our neighbours, so let's say in 2020 we had foreign investments of $1.3 billion, Serbia of 3.4 billion, and Hungary today has a forint and will still have a considerable amount of $4.1 billion and 300% more than Croatia is even worse than that foreign investment in Croatia is primarily in the banking sector, in telecommunications and in part in tourism, while in all other countries in our environment investments are primarily in the processing industry meaning in some added value. I wonder if anything will really change about foreign investment, or if it will all remain just a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95811	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95812	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlikek, in my humble court, nothing will change at all. Investments go where and money goes there, capital goes where it's safe. What all investors really point out is the fact that there is legal uncertainty in Croatia and that the rule of law does not work. And that's a fundamental problem with a whole series of others, but that's the key. Until we settle that part, we can't expect any more investment because even when, here you have the Regional Distribution Centre in Osijek where the county and the city had to settle the property over the land and it lasted a few years. So when you even have local self-government units, it's going on forever, let alone when a private investor comes in, so you should be doing some things right now, this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95813	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95814	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the blacklists, which is stated in the national plan, however, has now been lost from the document. The blacklists in Slovenia have proved to be one tool that has significantly affected the lack of inflation. So, what needs to be done for sure is to protect citizens in a country of wonders called Croatia in which it must simply be expected because of the experience we have that the increase, that the change of the kuna in the euro will be charged up and that there will be a very great burden on the citizens and especially on those of the poorest such as pensioners and low-income citizens, so I would ask you to comment that all protection mechanisms should be put in motion for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95815	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95816	Thank you, dear colleague Raukar Gamulin, and we often commit to a lot of things. So we're committed and we're going to reduce parafiscal intrusions there were some symbolic reductions. That the state will get rid of the stakes in a number of companies that it has, nothing has been done because there's a tender that nobody has reported and it's a scribbled dish, but nothing has changed. With blacklists, it's a similar thing, it's all announced so pompous, and now suddenly there's nothing, let's go, go where it's cheaper, look, although we all know that this market is pretty consolidated. There are several trade chains this and they are more or less following each other so that they are very ugly, blatant statements by people who earn far more and I think there should be a little more social sensitivity and certainly introduce black lists at the introduction of the euro, although along with these I don't know how much that'll help at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95817	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95818	Thank you. So here's the same question I asked Minister Maric, so maybe you'll answer as an economist, he didn't answer that question. So by putting aside all the theoretical debates about this advantage or the shortcomings of Croatia's entry into the Eurozone and its quite so to say the neoliberal point of view, it means taking into account the situation in which we have lower inflation than in other countries in the Eurozone at the moment so that this monetary policy, an autonomous monetary policy, is more important than ever because in fact this argument that we have once met these criteria even though we are not actually meeting them in the very conflict now, so if you want the world-rent of that creator of this law and even the concept of entering the Eurozone, because meeting these criteria is actually what is set out as a framework, something that is needed to convert at all. But if at this point we have a lower rate of inflation, isn't this the time? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that monetary policy is run differently. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95819	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95820	Thank you very much for the question, colleague Peovic, that, here, everything in life and thus the introduction of the euro has positive and negative sides. In my humble opinion, I think there's too much emphasis here right now on the positive, but we should also be aware of the negative ones. And as for the autonomous conduct of monetary policy that would be in the function of developing the Croatian economy, it hasn't been run in the last 30 years, so it turns out that now that we haven't used it in the last 30 years, we're going to officially give it up, so we don't even have to do it. Why someone decided to ask themselves that way, why the CNB works that way is a million dollar question that probably neither Minister Maric nor Governor Vujcic will ever answer honestly until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95821	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95822	Dear MPs, unfortunately this is another law for which we do not know what is waiting for us, except that the euro will come because we cannot be exempt from it because we have signed such contracts and simply this procedure has to be carried out. What bothers me is the implementing measures related to prices. Namely, you touched your own ankle. 8 says that prices must not increase without justifiable reasons. Now, can any of us read out of the law which are justified, or what are the unwarranted reasons? It's not in the law, and we're going to vote for something again, and we don't know what's going to happen after that because it's going to be defined in the Ethics Code, which in that code we're going to have no idea. So, we'll raise our hands, we'll vote it out, and after what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95823	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95824	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavic, what concerns me and what I pointed out, it's an art. Article 6 Eight, definitely. So it's Art. 6. which says that consumers will be protected from an unwarranted increase in prices, and if prices are increased for no good reason, and exactly what you say, who and when will say what is the justified reason now in this situation when experts tell us that the price of oil will go up to 300 dollars for a barrel or where the price of gas is wild, and when the energy goes up, then you have a wave of collection, of course because it is passed on to absolutely everything. And that part really related to consumer protection in this whole nightmare is now tied to war in Ukraine, in my opinion, unclear but ultimately changing the currency in all of this is extremely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95825	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95826	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, you are, I think that was the reply the replica told what was actually a fact. Each of these things always has its positive and negative sides. Those who advocate will emphasize positive, and ignore negative ones, and those who have some dilemmas will somehow more emphasize all of these negative ones, and take positive ones for granted, but let's just take it aside. In my discussion and the replies to the replicas, I had a feeling, not only of feeling but I am convinced that you are trying to sort of rationally separate what is, which is not, to show both the good and the bad side, so I want to know what you are assessing which are some kind of two or three minimums that you should satisfy, and that I don't know you in your debate can clearly say, is this a time to introduce the euro? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95827	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95828	Thank you very much, dear colleague Dark-Taritash. As always, I try to be objective and reasonable to approach every problem, so I stress to this one what seems to me to be a problem that will arise sooner or later, and by all accounts relatively quickly. So what are the criteria that we, with the convergence criteria that are defined and that we are likely to meet how here's the climate-based secretary of state, what we have to pay attention to with or without the euro is our standard of living, is our purchasing power and structure, so as long as we have over 400,000 pensioners with pensions less than 2,500 kuna, this is risky because I talked to a pensioner who's got over 40 years of age yesterday. and has a pension of 2,200 kuna, how this woman will live, how she lives now, and with no increase at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95829	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95830	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Vucilović, you mentioned in your individual discussion certain resources and market conditions per product, so you mentioned oil, gas and logs and at the moment a very interesting and very important product mentioned wheat. We know that Russia is the world's largest wheat exporter, almost 20% of the world's trade and since supply is questionable, my question is not necessarily about the introduction of the euro, but here it is about the purchases that are coming and it is good that you mentioned it here and it is good that the representatives of the authorities are here to consider this topic. In fact, countries around these days have made a decision to ban exports of wheat to Serbia, Hungary and probably a few others, do you consider here an economist that we should also take such a move and try to ensure this one important product and actually reduce the potential for a future, future price increase... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95831	Thank you. This is out of the question, though, but here is a respected representative, Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95832	Thank you very much. My colleagues Opačak Bilić, so Croatia is self-sufficient and products and more than we need wheat and corn, but this morning I listened to the Minister Vukkovic on one radio station that said we can't because we are a member of the EU ban on exports of wheat and corn, and then I don't know if Hungary's member of the EU and what kind of member it is, and what kind of Croatia if Hungary can put this on, but here is 9 kuna and 17 limes in Hungary, and in Croatia there is 12 kuna and 19 June, 33% more expensive, before us is never more expensive seed, blue diesel over 8 kuna and of course if there is a disturbance on the EU market because we are not an importer but an exporter of wheat and corn, but also our warriors will use it, and if the price goes up they will perform, then we will again as usual eat expensive wheat or frozen bakery products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95833	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to a respected representative called Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95834	Dear colleagues, I will once again begin to advocate the introduction of the euro for a very simple reason because we were 30 years old. monetary sovereignty because we had a CNB that protected prices, which cared about interest rates, which protected Croatian citizens, and we all know that these Croatian citizens in that same period would have said our monetary sovereignty expensively paid for those who did. And then you ask yourself why someone's doing something? As a rule, the answer is because it can. So today we're talking about whether we want to be part of a community that we honestly believe and, by all accounts, it's better than us whether we want to join them or we want to be alone because we're self-sufficient, strong, and I don't know what. I'd have concluded that we'd better try to be with the good ones and then become somehow better than try to stay alone, have some kind of sovereignty that we haven't used in 30 years. If we didn't know how to use it in 30 years, I don't know why anyone thinks they'd be able to use it in the next 30 years, so I would honestly like Croatia to have a more competitive economy, to have more employees, to have more diversified production in Croatia, that our tourism is not 20 percent. If I wanted to, would someone please explain to me why it would be 10 years from now? There's not a single indicator that would say it's going to happen in the next 10 years, so we're going to introduce the euro because then we're going to be stronger. So the fact that Europe wants us if we meet these criteria to get into the euro, I think it's good, because at every moment of human history, and in the opening speech, I was talking about the euro of the '70s, when it was restarted, when the Berlin Wall fell, so when it survived in 2008 when everyone thought it was going to fall apart. The euro is good, the euro has solved some things but these problems that Dretar spoke of will not solve either the euro or the kuna. They can only be solved by a quality governance structure in this country, i.e. a quality policy. If we're going to have high-quality ministers who can do their job, then these problems that you've been talking about that aren't even about the kuna, we won't have for the euro either. I heard a colleague of Lalovec when he calculated the cost of conversion, so those conversion costs of two and a few billion kunas won't be spent, then we'll be able to spend them on banks, but we'll be able to spend our citizens in stores, the economy by investing. But what you need to set a government as a goal, and that's pensioners. Remember one thing the last tax reform was the worst lay or the worst reflected on the poorest. This introduction of a euro that will be good for society as a whole will cost the poorest ones the most. And the government's mission, and I'm saying I'm not talking about pensioners because my colleague before me said 400,000 of them are below 2 and a half thousand kuna. He has to find a way to make them feel as little as possible. If the trade chains are going to be fair they won't, they're not today either. The story of fair trade chains rests on the beating of the state, on nothing else. I'm the last time someone here seems to me from the CNB about price stability asked a simple question. Dukatt's yogurt, which currently costs 17 kunas in the store and a liter of milk that costs slightly less than three kunas when I buy it. Where's the difference? Who took the difference? If yogurt is 17 kuna and milk is 3 kuna, then the foreign producer Lactalis today and the trade chain have divided the difference. That's what the government's issue is about how it regulates relationships. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95835	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Brumnic, you have made it very clear that the problem of course is in the management of all those who manage the system. So we have a really catastrophic little greenfield investment and brownfield investment. We have incredibly little innovation. I think that by the number of protections of intellectual property rights, by the number of innovations we are far the last in Europe. So, not the last one, but the last one. All of this is naturally reflected in the standard of our citizens, that a third of our citizens are below the poverty threshold. You've scored a group of people who need to talk to us, or we should talk to them. They're pensioners, so your proposal to help the pensioners in this SWITCH on the euro, is it just blacklists? Is there any other option? Or, for example, in this gas crisis, are these vouchers or something? What would you do if you were in management? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95837	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95838	Ha, that's a tough question! At the position of management and the position of politics, one thing anyone should think about is how every man can live with dignity. One way to achieve this is so that there is some kind of guaranteed minimum pension. This guaranteed minimum pension is certainly not 700, 800 kuna as many people in Croatia are receiving today. This guaranteed minimum pension by logic of things should not be less than minimum wage. Because I find it hard to believe that someone who is 55 years old and someone who is 75 needs much less to eat, or that the costs of directing are significantly lower if he is 20 years older.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95839	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95840	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague. So in your debate you said actually a few facts, that fact that somehow the mini rang in the ear that we through the debate on the euro are actually opening discussions about a number of other problems. The discussions before it instructed the prime minister to say that more investment in Croatia would come through the introduction of the euro. Investments will come as long as they come. So it's not our problem why our investor comes to us because we have the euro or we don't have the euro, we have a problem somewhere else. We have a problem with unresolved property relations, an unsettled cataster, enough undefined investments and everything else, so we and in this debate on the euro have actually brought some other problems under discussion. The euro won't solve it, but the absolute debate points to the problems we normally have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95841	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95842	So in my first debate, I said that today we should actually start talking about Croatia's future. Euro is something I think is good to introduce, we're going to get into a good club, and all of these other things just depend on who's leading you. I've said several times from this pay phone that I think this government is incapable of running things, that's the key to our problem. The reconstruction today in Zagreb and in Banija has not moved from place for two years. We'll see in a year with the new minister, I guarantee you that except for a few of those who will self-finance the restoration of their apartments that will get back after that maybe their money, the real restoration of those who have no money will not be. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95843	Thank you very much. And now he will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Sacic. So far, I've been letting the discussion go a long way, we've talked about imports, exports of wheat from Hungary, we've talked about restoration, etc. I'm asking that we stick to the subject because I'm going to be a little less tolerated in the future. Here's your Honorable representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95844	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. So we had the opportunity to hear extremely professional views in favour of not introducing the euro into the Republic of Croatia. Certainly I, as a man who does not deal with finance issues, can speak more emotionally to macroeconomic indicators about this whole story and support colleagues and colleagues, especially experts, professors who make arguments that we are not yet ready to enter the Eurozone. So I can say that since 1994. Since the introduction of the Croatian Kuna to these days, this Croatian Kuna has indeed been everything but unenforced from our political elites, it supports many fields. We have done as politicians, as businessmen especially as exporters of many criticisms, and the CNB has worked very hard to make sure that this kuna does not live, that it does not strengthen, that it does not produce one positive effect on our young generations. And, of course, after we have reviled her so much, we have weakened her after we have poored our Croatian people with her now, practically in front of a decision that can really further impoverish Croatian citizens, especially those who are already barely surviving and in this standard have huge problems, and with this war in Ukraine, especially the collection of energy will be in terrible big worries about how to gather the moon with the moon. I don't even know how it's going to harmonize the receipts of our budgets and fund-raisers with the expenses of living, how it's going to be for our pensioners, for those who are on minimum wages? How is that gonna be consistent? Here we have had some proposals for a solution to what it looks like in other countries, but in Croatia I believe that this will lead to an explosion of dissatisfaction, to the social breakdown of the extremely large and our government should take care of it because in these months something terrible is happening, and if there were any arguments that this euro was carried out in the referendum as Croatian sovereigns, we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with one position of Croatian citizens who did not support us, we have not gathered enough signatures, but if they were not quite clear to the Croatian people, I believe in these 10, 15 days that they will be clearer. And our government should take it much, much more seriously to postpone such a decision because it cannot make anything good for the Croatian people, most of all, the majority of the Croatian people. We are simply not ready for this step, and that fact itself will lead us into an even greater addiction, but not according to the great way we have had the opportunity to hear from supported colleagues and colleagues, we join the great, we join Europe and we will profit with it. It's not always like that, especially not in this case. We entered 2013. to the greatest extent in Europe to get rid of corruption, unfortunately we did not get rid of this corruption. We will now enter to neglect the kuna, taken according to the ruling euro plan, thinks it will lead to standards, to better life, to prosperity in Croatia. Unfortunately, he won't. We're not ready, let's put our trust in our potentials, maybe we have a chance of taking small steps to a certain standard, and this is how we're going to make a big step out of the question in which direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95845	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were a very emotional colleague of this Sacic, for a reason, you fenced yourself to speak emotionally less, less economically because you are not an economist by profession. And of course we're all tied up in this hall to your anthem beautiful to us, to our coat of arms, to our flag, to our coin, but the kuna will stay on and on the euro and she will stay there, we will call it different but we will remind ourselves of glorious days. But really, since I was in two governments, in Racan's government and Milanovic's government, I must say that these monetary policies of Croatia have been led relatively correctly for the last 30 years. The stability of the kuna was practically the same all along with.../incomprehensible/... each other's currencies there should be completely, completely, completely real. REG REI regional economic integration is the inevitable of the 21st century. Is this the right time? Look, we got hit by the Covid crisis, the Mastric criteria are shaken, the secretary of state might have noded the same before me, that we'll make them, we'll make them because they're relieved of discretion. So now it's time to get into it. Or else the question of when. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95847	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95848	Thank you, professor. That we Croatian defenders came in with one story, you know the story of Croatian Kuna in Croatian pocket, the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, in the end here is where we are today dear friends. Far from all these ideals, but we try hard, we try hard to swim. But what we can say is at least warn people who are smarter, more professional, let them say, let them give projections, we can just say that we're worried and that's all I'm saying right now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95849	Now she will speak to a respected representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95850	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going back to the law itself, and all that awaits us. In fact, the experience of the Member States that introduced the euro suggests that in the rules preceding the introduction of the euro, a law that regulates the general issue related to the introduction of the euro, but that there are also numerous, many laws that we need to pass in order to make it work together, or to fully adapt Croatia's legislation to the introduction of the euro. So we have a lot of work to do, it's about payment traffic, the tax system, the capital market, the financial system, the commercial law, etc., so these are all areas that need to be said now by the Secretary of State over 70, right, so 7 laws waiting for us for, for a change. In fact, what I would like to warn is that it is also a big business in front of business entities that will have to have certain one-time costs for obtaining banknotes, euro coins, adjust traffic to cash, adapt IT systems, and also adapt accounting systems and reporting systems. Here we must point out that our high level of Eurosupply of the Croatian economy is thus tourism that generates a large flow of cash in euro. These entities already have great experience in the need of the euro, and we think they will adapt much faster to new conditions. It should be noted that the total net amount needed to adjust the introduction of the euro for the non-financial and non-banking sector is estimated at around 154 million kuna, and the total net amount needed to adjust the introduction of the euro for the banking system is estimated at around 2.2 billion kuna, and this relates primarily to the loss of bank income due to the reduction in volume of exchanges and positive exchange rates, etc. So these are all the effects that will happen during this period. I would like to compare the skeptics that are shown here there are parallel data which have been made in relation to the countries that introduced the euro, the euro before us, that is Slovenia, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania where you have a ratio of prices and wages. For example, it is. in Slovenia, between 2007 and 2019, prices rose by 26%, but wages increased by 48%. Slovakia's prices rose 20% from 2009 to 2019, but wages increased 54%. In Estonia, this ratio is 25% versus 74% for wages. Latvia 10% price and 67% salary and Lithuania 10% price and 59% salary. So these are the relations between the cumulative increase in gross wages and the prices during that period of the introduction of the euro. In addition, I would like to point out that when we talk about how we're going to live here, how the pensioners will live, so the government's measures are happening right now. 4.8 billion kuna, which will now be transferred in one way through VAT support and changes, etc. So they're talking about taking great care of how our citizen lives, how the pensioner lives, and they're going to be this one-time support, and they're going to cut the VAT to a number of products, so they're going to help both farmers and fishermen, so even now, regardless of the currency, the government is taking care of it, and they're going to take care of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95851	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95852	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues. So here comes the end of the debate on the issue of the introduction of the euro Okay, we're in the other part. [[Intruder Reiner: Unfortunately no, there is still very much....]] We've heard a lot about, much against, I'm interested in your opinion as economists, is now the right time, when it's the right time, is fear of rising prices by introducing the euro, is the increase in prices more threatened by these global developments in terms of a pandemic that lasts over two years and who knows when it will last, unfortunately and these war events that we also don't know about until when and how it will develop and whether it is wiser to accept the security of the Eurozone or to stay away? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95853	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95854	Thank you very much for asking. Yeah, it's always a dilemma what and when to introduce. So that some of the questions would not even be an EU member now, however, the fact is that the advantages of our membership are also referred to in this way. So, if we are also in the euro area, it certainly speaks about how much greater market access is, how much more secure we are, what mechanisms exist that are already being stalked and how we can help each other much easier and through the banking system. And besides, when we look at and what it means in relation to the offer and also in demand, and also at prices, for example. interest rates, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95855	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95856	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Today we have heard more than once about the concerns of citizens about raising prices and I would like to emphasise that in art. 6th to 11th of the Law in question has defined the basic principles of the introduction of the euro. One of them is also the principle of banning unwarranted price hikes in art. 8. which says business entities are prohibited from introducing the euro to increase the price of goods 8 or services to consumers for no good reason. It is also defined as guidelines for adjusting the economy in the process of replacing the Croatian Kuna with the euro, as well as the ethical code which will be in the form of an application and in which consumers will be able to gain insight into the data, they will be able to write complaints and praises about the implementation of the law for the introduction of the euro, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95857	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95858	Thank you very much. Yes, it has been mentioned several times. Six and eight, and that's the code of ethics. Here it is explained that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development will, among other things, provide opportunities for additional consumer protection mechanisms. Namely, they are in the law itself and in the bill the law is set just as it is in our immediate neighbourhood in Slovenia where there is actually a possibility that those like those who are strong can follow prices, can compare, signal and put on the so-called. blacklists all those who use certain situations that are not regular or should not be and then are then actually referred to as inspection, inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95859	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95860	Thank you. Do you know how many esteemed colleagues they are in time I'm going to say stable macroeconomic environments, how many prices have been adjusted in the countries that introduced the euro before us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95861	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95862	What is known from the data that at those times was a correction of about 0.2% of the price. It was mentioned here that someone was saying that in Slovenia it was 4% etc. So these were very small percentages compared to what they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95863	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We can talk about many benefits from the introduction of the euro, and it seems that the tourism sector is looking forward to it, of course, happening as soon as possible. On the other hand, however, there are these doubts that we have often heard about that come especially from citizens in relation to traders, regardless of the obligation to show duality of prices both in kunas and in euro. You have already touched the rules in which monitoring is envisaged to avoid this fraud and which is the role and consumer association, if I am not mistaken and the Ministry of Economy for this purpose has provided for certain financial resources because the fact that trust is very good, but also that we need to monitor what is happening so that citizens do not really harm, so that someone does not turn this situation into an undeserved benefit. So tell me that and actually our consumer associations are Capacitated from your knowledge to follow what's going to happen? [[Intruder Reiner: Dear Representative Peric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95865	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's predicted that through consumer associations it happens. I'm not sure yet whether they are sufficiently capacitated to be able to follow it, but I hope that in this sense they will take the same certain actions and education and everything else that goes along with it and that with these significant means that are intended, and possibly that it will be bigger, then it will actually happen successfully. What is the lack of this moment and this moment is exactly what will and what has already been shown, and these are the prices of the energys that are caused by other reasons entirely. They are in the meantime abruptly, they have increased the prices that then cumulatively pulls up prices in all other areas of the economy and that is what is unfavourable at this point and then someone can interpret it completely differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95866	Dear MPs, Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95867	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in order for a Member State to introduce the euro as an official currency, of course, that it should meet various criteria. They are set up to encourage Member States to behave responsibly and to prepare them for membership. Meeting these criteria for our country of course didn't come overnight, it lasted long and it wasn't easy. Croatia today trusts the Credit Rating Agency, but also international financial markets. The euro area accounts for 15% of world exports. The euro is the second most important currency in the world, and I believe that the time has certainly come for its introduction into the Republic of Croatia. But here's how much of that will make it easier for our economies?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95868	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95869	Thank you very much. Yes, what I mentioned on behalf of the club has indeed achieved a great deal in terms of stabilization of public finances in this period since 2016. The many changes that have occurred precisely in the tax system, in tax reliefs, in various donations and fees and aids that have been made possible through the stabilisation of the entire system have actually contributed to entering and becoming a potential candidate for the introduction of the euro and thus actually showed all the seriousness and that we will meet these criteria that have been envisaged. I think the great advantages are that the economy will have a much better, much faster approach, much cheaper without exchange rate differences, etc. I could count it now. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95870	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95871	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues, Peric, as you yourself said, is the biggest fear of collecting certain products. But in your presentation, you have cited examples of gatherings in some countries, and there has been an increase in the price of work that has also had to lead to the purchase of prices of certain products. I believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia, as it has now been known to react in the event of price increases and energy collection, will also know in the coming period if such a huge price hike occurs. We know that from April 1st comes, we have a new package of measures that will ease the rise in electricity, gas prices, tax discharge, or VAT reduction. We also have social benefits for endangered customers of energy, as well as support for pensioners, farmers and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95872	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95873	Thank you very much. Yes, that's what I was saying that regardless of the currency, that the government took very good care of these groups, but also of the entire economy and of all citizens to make it easier and that the basket of availability of certain products would be much larger. What should certainly be pointed out is that in all these changes we always had those who were against certain shifts. However, labour prices and demand for certain qualifications and professions are increasing and given... markets certainly raise the labour price, and at the end of the day when you look now at the price of the work of a tourist employee, waiter or anyone else is much higher than two years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95874	The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hello again to the secretary of state. The first part of the presentation was actually a message policy and it would be good, we'll actually see when there's a vote in the Parliament on Friday to send a political message from this House that we'll pass this law with a two-thirds majority. It's the same message, so it would be important for all those who have some other misunderstandings when let's say the most important laws that will determine our future to be a political message, not to be 76, 77 hands. It's very important when you pass laws like this. And why am I telling you this now? As a political message and a way of convincing citizens and MPs that this is very good. And that's why we're proposing that we take some steps to make ourselves even more quality and better prepared, in fact, for everyone in this debate itself. First of all, in the second reading, here you can see if it would be a good idea for someone to sit in this debate from the CNB. Why? Look, it's about the introduction of the euro, the CNB has a lot of influence on this, not just for the Ministry of Finance, but for someone from the CNB to be able to answer some kind of question. It's a well-intentioned recommendation for you, and it's good and smart for someone to sit there, because if someone has any questions that we had around the CNB today, it's stupid of them to stay unresponsive to the question. You have a technical option, let someone from the CNB sit there, they can speak, that they can also participate and hear his opinion. They'll eventually implement it. That's first, technically. Secondly, also in the light of the law on second reading, it would be good, we have instructed these criteria today. The criteria are very clear. So price stability, which means inflation rate, is what the minister was talking about today's calculation. The sustainability of public finances, the stability of the exchange rate mechanism and convergence, so these are the four criteria that the Council of Europe will actually define there in July we want to be candidates or whether we will get one. In your explanation, you don't have anywhere to fill it or eat it. So why, then, you have to get yourself into some sort of question that you have to sort of explain, it doesn't say here in the explanation, so under each of these points state price stability, then let's say we've met, where we've come with all these things, right? It's still a document. It's a document that's going to stay in this high house, someone's going to read it someday, someone's going to watch it, they don't all have the same knowledge about it. These are some criteria that the Commission has given us and the second reading that we have something to eat, see between that second reading and something that the European Commission will bring it to you for two months. There's no difference if the commission meets us on some criteria whether or not we're meeting something or not you put it in just an explanation, so it's a good recommendation when we talk about whether we're meeting or not to meet the criteria that it's already written in the very explanation of the law. What's very important is, I brought it here today, today we were talking about convincing whether something good or not is good eating. We have the latest public change survey on the introduction of the euro, watch out for February 2019. Is this for the CNB, he's been questioning public change, so do now on this device, let the CNB do a new research and what the citizens think, a very important document, right? Don't let that stay before covida is, in 2019 we have some opinion about what the citizens of Croatia think of the euro. So there is, you have a communication strategy for the introduction of the euro, a communication strategy, that's where you wrote it. We are here today discussing with the latest data on the opinion and today the minister here said that we have here and at the Prime Minister's office etc., so I see no reason that in answer to all these questions that today had MPs to actually ask the citizens if this particular opinion of citizens is very important, is it very important, is this going to happen within 6 months of that change. In the research itself, which means that, watch out for this is communication from 2019 because when the euro was not mentioned at all, who mentioned it in 2019, there was, there was not so much intense debate as today did. Do a new study until the second reading, install it in the explanation yes. Why? Because the citizens here are very misinformed, at least according to what the CNB says. Our homework is the same about... in Parliament or government to understand in the euro, yes, to understand all that we are saying today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't have to be economists, but to understand the smallest details. See what this research has said, 22% misinformed, 13% misinformed, 45% of citizens are poorly or badly informed about the euro and 39% of the average information. Work on this and these are some concrete measures that can help and plus an action plan how to control the increase in prices. I think that's a good strategy for you. I apologize for just a second, a good strategy to make the second reading even better discussed. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95876	Thank you, don't apologize to me, we have to stick to time. The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95877	Thank you very much. My friend Lalovac, you know how it goes, you'd say this is a good detection, that's how everybody starts. However, in this forest which is therefore privileged information concerning the introduction of the euro and, let's say, benefits. The benefits for Croatia are unfortunately prevailing so I will say such a lot of trivial information, it will now be our currency, the kuna will be on our common euro, there will be no more cost of conversion, there will be a lot of foreign tourists coming, etc. Blah, blah, blah, so nothing in general. And now I'm asking you a question, if you weren't an apologist for the introduction of the euro, so a supporter, would you be for the euro at all if you weren't an economist to listen to such a bad communication strategy of the CNB and the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, say I was the first to be the euro, if that communication strategy didn't exist, so it causes one resistance among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95878	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95879	I thank my colleague, exactly, thank you and that's exactly what we're talking about and actually we're talking about, can you imagine that most people really don't have any contact with this stuff and we're kind of talking to you on purpose, it's actually here, we're talking about believing that something is good for Croatia and that something is good for the citizens, is it? So it is a much more difficult task for you than for us from the opposition to convince Croatian citizens that something good is eating, but you have all possible communication elements and in the debate of this and in the CNB and so I tell you to give you everything you need to communicate, don't let any question here of the parliamentary representatives remain irresponsible, from the action plan, the price protection, and so any question that will not be answered is questionable, whether you know it or not, and because of that you have, there is little time, but you can, with well-meaning support to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95880	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95881	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, in this document from the public consultation, it was offered that 17.2. was in circulation of €35.3 billion, and then when you look at a little bit of what's being said from the financial circles of the CNB and here and there, and that amount is 30 to 35 billion kuna, and it says 5 to 10 billion kuna of it on money that citizens and business entities need for current transactions, and these other 20 to 25 billion kuna goes under what is said in stockings and mattresses. Do you also agree with these projections, do we even know what amount will be at stake when the kuna will be changed into the euro? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95882	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95883	Thank you. Here, so that data you said today means he knows the CNB is, and that's why it's important here that when you ask a question like I asked the minister today, how much will actually be the payment of the CNB to the ECB, what will be the cost of it? The minister cannot know all these small details, but there may be a colleague from the CNB who can come in very quickly and help him answer these questions and what you have come to answer today to these questions that we who are getting questions are getting the essential questions that citizens are sending us, and that is why it is important that in this high house in this debate, all the issues in the introduction of the euro must be cleared up. Just like the government has communicated that here she said she was communicating and that there were 120 questions and 120 answers to yes, it's just a question of how to get to the public of those, all of them, that all people hear it all, and not this little thing to read on. So that's one part of how to help this part that's not exactly favourable is to be more favourable in favour of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95884	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95885	I'm going to ask you a question that I didn't get an answer from Minister Maric. So if inflation is somewhat lower than in other countries, isn't there some autonomous monetary policy yet? However, if the main argument is the introduction of the euro is convergence and stability due to divergence as inflation arises at the same time, the heavy brake of the European Central Bank is expected to mean a significant increase in interest rates which will cause recession in Croatia when we enter. If we have lower inflation rates, and the ECB has policy, politics means high inflation, so just beyond what I am not even entering into this broad world-wide theoretical debate, whether it is smart or not. Just from this present perspective, because if we stick to some criteria, it's not just about meeting them how to say it, it's about us, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95886	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95887	Thank you very much. That statistics is a strange number is inflation it says that in Croatia it is lower than Europe, unfortunately the perception of inflation is that it is much larger than Europe has. That's, that's the problem, right? Because inflation, what happens in Croatia, is when statistics come in and I don't know the last time they published January data, it turns out that somewhere around 5 5 7 it seems to me that it's very close even to the EU, but what part of the Croatian citizen is affected because the largest part of the product and perception is inflation that is much larger than 5.7%. And it seems to me that our statistics, and you will see, unfortunately it is always so, always a little late for or what Croatian citizens feel. And I'm afraid that about this part of inflation in Croatia, if it were lower than Europe, you wouldn't be so sure. We'll see in 2-3 months what the real numbers will look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95888	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95889	Thank you. I agree with you esteemed colleague that we missed 2 years of our participation in the European Information and Communication Course Mechanism, but here you mentioned an action plan for price control, so I know that it is a short time for you to point out what might be in that action plan, because I think it is important for us to keep the most sensitive groups of citizens from it as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95890	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95891	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the weather's going so fast, and I think the government's already late for no one here, not this one we're criticizing right now. The fastest thing we can do is do something that the Slovenians have done, they're across from us, they've had very specific and connected to consumer associations, I think that citizens through consumer associations can organize themselves much faster than the state does. And that's the thing now, that the problem is that when the ministry announces the competition now, so until they're elected, so until it's so, so on, unfortunately, it's late, is it? But the government, if there's a second reading, and it doesn't make an action plan, is it here again in the debate? And for this reason, until the second reading, create an action plan for consumer protection, this is all that you've been saying about principles and to understand all the part that wasn't for the introduction of the euro. You'll talk them out of it, you'll have two-thirds of it, three-quarters you'll have for this bill. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95892	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95893	Your Honor, you said yourself it would be good if someone from the National Bank were here and then you would certainly get the right answer to the colleague's question because the National Bank knows how much money is in circulation, they know how much money is printed, how much money we would know about it, and how much money we need to convert from kuna to euro. I also have one question about the people's bank, and it's about the gold standard. We know that we are the only country with Norway in Europe that has no gold reserves and that, that this course of our kuna is actually related to foreign currency. Do you know, since you're an ex-minister and you certainly have more knowledge than I have of my colleagues, do you have any idea if you've made any assessment of the risk that's going on and how much risk it is, what happens to us after that if we just happen to get out of the Eurozone because of something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95894	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95895	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have that information about what would happen on the way out, I know that there was a few years ago talking about more, more circles of those who participate in the euro in that part. You mentioned the golden standard imagine how wild the gold market was, recently someone mentioned to me that many Croatian citizens are now doing it is simple, rushed to gold shops to buy gold. The price of gold came to you yesterday over 2,000 dollars for an ounce. So what's something is happening again is one part of the escape capital because it's coming into the unstable this, because there's been a shock, right? But I repeat again, yesterday, the other day, there was a shock of $140, the euro remained stable, the euro remained stable compared to the dollar, right? That's what I'm saying. So it's not easy when such a shock happens that the currency stays stable immediately. And that's why I think it's a good idea to approach that, but that's why we need to communicate with my people, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95896	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the criteria for Croatia to meet entry into the Eurozone, I think it is quite clear that we did not meet these criteria would not have talked about this law today, but always this communication can be more efficient and better for citizens to really understand what is ahead of us. What I would like to ask you is how much is the economic stability of the Eurozone and how much is the Eurozone resistant to some external influences and disturbances when we talk, for example, about the rise in oil prices or about some currency fluctuations that certainly affect the national economy. So how much entry into the Eurozone will protect us from these influences so that we do not lose on economic growth or that God does not give us a chance to shut down some jobs if some disturbances happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95898	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95899	I think tomorrow the President of Mrs Lagarde's European Central Bank has a report on this new oil shock. The pressure of the oil or the entire energy, priced.../incomprehensible/... has a strong pressure on the euro that never eats. So 6.7% of inflation and the impact on the euro isn't even, I wouldn't say that it's, I think it's even more difficult than what it was when it was the banking crisis so that Europe is safe in that part, now the question is, what's asking the question, I don't know, one of the MPs, is there going to be an increase in interest rates, is it? Tomorrow we will see how the European Central Bank will react to these oil shocks, is it, to this part of the price, because then to combat this part, so Europe has to start pushing money out, is it, because it has enough now. The mechanism, the European Stabilisation Mechanism, here I mentioned it today, 500 billion euros if any disturbance occurs. That doesn't have a single country. These are all the elements and instruments the EU Commission uses now much more efficiently when it was 2007, '08. Mr. When There Was a Crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95900	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95901	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. You mentioned this very communication and one way to make the citizens aware of all these effects objectively and positively and negatively. Do you think that citizens now know enough about how far these measures have been achieved, which means now, how we manage, how debt, how inflation is, what economic growth is, which means, in the light of the fact that we are a member of the euro, the EU, and this approach of 24 billion euros, what does that mean for us and how much this has shown to growth, economic growth in this past period?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95902	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95903	I appreciate the question. Look, as much as there are some measures that the government did and the tax discharge and a bunch of things that they did, when inflation came, it wiped out overnight. Then the government took this measure of inflation, but it wasn't for two days, it's the cover of Ukraine today, right? Today I don't even know who's following this debate today about the euro. So winning a communication strategy in this kind of news when we don't know if there's electricity in Chernobyl today, there's no electricity, etc., very hard and that's what's going to be a challenge for the government in the second reading and further communication to even reach the citizens of how to communicate with all the external shocks that are happening, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95904	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95905	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here, I am pleased that this is a very rational and ground floor analysis of all the benefits that the introduction of the euro brings us. However, aware of all the concerns that citizens have, I think that we must, exactly what you said, communicate much more with citizens in a simple way that citizens realize that with certain risks that always exist, we one now live all in a crisis, but the crisis is sometimes an opportunity and certainly doesn't always have to wait for some better time to decide on some decisions, I think that at these times, when the crisis is, there is always fear of change, and so I think that we should communicate well all the good that awaits us in that period after the introduction of the euro and citizens somehow bring the situation closer together. Well, considering how and what you suggest about that communication To be as close to the citizens as possible? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95906	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95907	Well, thank you. Here, actually, I did do that in the introduction through these some points actually I said. So here must be a representative of the CNB, you must have very clearly explained these criteria that we accept in this part. To all of those who, as far as I understand it, I may be wrong, yes, but the people of those who were not for the euro, they just voted for the shrimp due to the fall of standards. And that's nothing more than what the CNB actually said about citizens. Now that's what it is when you have instruments, when the government has shown that it has instruments, how to fight for inflation with these 4.8 billion kunas. There's you actually, you got in a second you got trust and you closed that story. While you have no answers to these questions, why has the ministry not yet called.../incomprehensible/... why you have not joined, included consumer associations that they communicate, did, when consumer associations begin to communicate, then be, I think it'll be a lot easier for the government later. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95908	Now he'll speak to the esteemed Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, come in. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95909	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So the key question is that euro, yes or no. That's the question, right now, all the questions. And now watch out, you have today, let's say today that the evil has lost almost 8% of the euro parity, that the forint has lost 8.6%. Remember that some in Croatian society have called for such a Croatia approach, as they have, under the quotes of sovereigns, not on the political option in HS, but on Poland and Hungary. Now, in order to talk about something, we need to know something that is actually the first global monetary geography and what are actually world currencies and why currency becomes a world currency. So, dollar, euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan is a matter of trust, but also of military force. They're world currencies. Another group is Norway, Sweden and Australia, but only for one reason, which is that the value of the foreign reserves of those countries is greater than the value of the primary money. Sweden, for example, over 600%, which means that their central banks are responding to prevent excessive amplitude rates. And in the third group of my global monetary geography, you have currencies in economies that are small and open, and there is the Croatian kuna, so dualism. Before the stamp, today's euro. So today 39 world states are bounding their currency to a dollar, 25 states to the euro, and 18 to some combination of currencies. And then the key question is, it's not the cost of conversion, of conversion, so it's absolutely irrelevant questions in this debate, that I don't insult anyone. The key question for you is what is an optimal currency area. So the key question is what is an optimal currency area, and now that I tell you that if we put in place a successful euro 1.1. would be only 1.1% of the total euro area population, nominal GDP would be less than 0.5% of the euro area, and the monetary mass of M1 I'm talking now would be 0.2 euro area. And of course, we'll go back a little bit in history then we'll talk about problems in the future, the Croatian course arrangement is called knowingly how to manage a swimming course and it's been in effect since '93, so in 1993 there's no significant unchangeable elements of the course mechanism. So, that was low inflation for you that we've given ourselves as a society, as a monetary policy so-called. and a relatively stable course that was from 7.1 to 7.73 in this final range that I'm telling you. In the last 19 years, the CNB has intervened over 130 times in the foreign exchange market, with over 70%, which is a very important figure, buying out surplus exchange offers, so it bought them for more than 10 billion euros and sold them by about 5 billion euros, which of course increased our foreign reserves to over 25 billion euros. Now I'm going back to these challenges from the future. So 25 billion euros, my dear colleagues and colleagues, is now the first challenge? The first challenge for you is that we will remain, let's say we will pay about 800 million euros, perhaps a little more in the European Central Bank, so there will be no obligation, but what will be left for us? We will probably be left with about 8 billion euros when we reject the foreign liabilities of the total bank deposits and the government sector deposits on our own golden box. This will again be managed by the CNB, will not be managed by the ECB, will be managed by the CNB. And what's the key? The key is what I asked Minister Maric today if therefore the CNB which the team will have to manage very conservatively, will therefore propose that the Ministry of Finance and the CNB may decide that a fiscal stabilisation fund financed from the CNB's emission gains be established as a pure anticyclic instrument and as a reserve or reserves to avoid an increase in, say, taxation, to increase some turbulence that comes into society. So it's gonna be our golden box about it we need to talk about for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95910	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95911	I find it hard to believe that we're going to have any boxes, let alone that filled with gold in any projection of our future, so I'm going to ask you something about the CNB. In fact, my original question was to concern some other currencies, I didn't realize which group you put Poland or Hungary in, given what you said earlier, and given the fact that they didn't introduce the euro, and we're going to introduce it anyway, and they've kept some of the standards or the food prices are much lower than ours. But the CNB is the one who really should get us into the euro and protect our citizens from inflation. However, we are talking about an institution that is especially if we follow the previous period in some way and are called for by its action from the silent minuses and insufficient activation to mixing with the properties of key persons involved in the work of the CNB. And then how do you expect such an institution to act in the interest of the citizens or to provide us with that golden box?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95912	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95913	Thank you. So, Poland, Hungary is your third group currency so-called. currency economy, but there we must stress that there is no dualism and euroisation as it existed in Croatia. As for the CNB, so I absolutely agree with you, so an absolutely inapplicable way of managing the CNB and things that have become visible since a month, month and a half ago. So that's inadmissible, from speculating the trading of privileged information. But I wouldn't put it in the same box right now with the introduction of the euro, these are some structural things that should definitely be changed and to be dealt with, I don't mean physically, I mean more morally. So that's inadmissible. And as for the boxes, there will be a 25 billion-euro box for you when most of the so-called reserves are paid. No monetary assets will be handed over to the CNB that will remain. So we'll have that new one. You'll see, follow the next year, a year and a half, how you'll have sea ideas to spend that money, be careful what I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95914	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95915	A respected colleague and former ministers. To me as a layman and a man who followed it, it was not clear why we sold the CNB 13 tons of gold in two ways for some ridiculous from today's funny figure position. Today gold is far, far more expensive than it was then, so now this question is what if it were, but what would happen now with that 13 tons of gold if it were owned by Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95916	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95917	They'd be less exposed to any risks, it's all a matter of diversification. So when you manage a particular currency, so you never put it that way, you never put your eggs in one basket, you always diversify. And if I were to ask you a question, what if Minister Lalovac, wasn't Minister Lalovec then, perhaps buying crypts? Ha, you see how interesting that is. It's very difficult for you from a certain point of view, I think it's easy from a historical moment to talk about some of the things that happened at the time. And you're right, we'd be more stable today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95918	The esteemed representative of the Lalovec who didn't buy the bitcoins.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Neither the bitcoin nor the stock, unfortunately, simply the risk aversion is completely different. But it's all about today's markets, tomorrow's markets are showing a different trend. The question you were talking about this monetary policy about... there if someone from the CNB could answer your question. The question they are defined by the price stability law than the question is generally here today there were speeches, what do you think is actually just the introduction of the euro comes to an increase in prices or is it some kind of a matter of productivity of work if it wasn't here now we're going to introduce the euro and we're going to get a bigger salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95920	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95921	So, I see some colleagues here that's okay. I think you're nothing personal. So, as a contribution to the introduction of the euro, she spoke of an increase in wages, because it is not true. You know what exactly is? The fact that in the Czech Republic and Slovenia you mentioned has increased productivity. Of course, prices have increased 0.2 to 0.3% but in a slightly more stable macroeconomic environment. And that's why I'm saying the same thing as you said that the Ministry of Economy should have had a lot, I'm going to say stronger surveillance, stronger surveillance. Because it can happen to us up to 1% on the annual level, but don't mix this up. So this was a matter of productivity. We're behind in productivity. Now whether the euro will help us to grow less than 10% in productivity, new technology, innovation, and that is where unfortunately we are lagging behind in that part. Then it can all be brought together. The Euro will not solve our problems, we will have to solve our own problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95922	Thank you. Now he will speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So he will speak to the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we are at the beginning of the debate, and all day we are discussing a subject related to the euro, and it is clear that we are also discussing on the anniversary, the tenth anniversary of the ratification of Croatia's accession treaty on this very subject. There's some sort of symbolism. I'd like to share a few opinions with you. First of all, we've heard some euro skeptics maybe behind this pay phone. I'm not a Eurosceptic, but I think we should absolutely introduce the euro within a medium term. We have already, and it has been said and a highly Eurosed market and there is actually no dispute about it. Consider just you colleagues and colleagues, as well as the general public when you talk about the price of apartment, car, etc. whether you express it in kunas or in euro. As a rule, and here I am speaking from my own experience and from my friends, acquaintances, people I hang out with almost everyone in the euro, almost everyone. So 99.9%. But apart from just saying that so-orientated foreign currency, which is nothing new, it dates back from the former state, possibly sentimentality that we may leave the national currency. I'd like to share some other concerns with you. Fears refer to very tangible reasons. In fact, leaving our own currency will leave the possibility of having monetary policy. I believe that you will agree with me and there have been more opinions about it, but I think I can safely say that we did not use all the leverages of monetary policy when we needed and we did not use enough. Now entering into historical reasons it is deplaced and pasture, perhaps we should have devalued the kuna in order to favour exports and there are now a whole series of other reasons or opinions that we could do with the kuna and the kuna course. But I'm saying, it's at this point pasture. What is not pasture is when and if we introduce the euro which, how will it affect our consumers, our purchasing power, our standard in general. And I would like to share here experiences like the Slovak Republic when introducing the euro. They have had a very long transition period in which very much energy, money and time have, of course, invested educationally in how they will calculate values from Slovak currency to the euro and vice versa, how they will report and cocoa traders can jump to price increases and report them at the end of the day which their rights as consumers should insist on. There's been a lot of discussion about this. What we offer, unfortunately, which is not good is too short a transitional period, too short a period in which prices will be expressed both in kunas and in euro, and I will agree with my predecessors who say our communication strategy around the whole transition is actually disastrous. A similar campaign called "Break". She didn't get the results she needed, she's nonexistent. We're not in this process since yesterday, so we shouldn't have planned it just for the next month, two, three, six or eight, we should have done it a lot, much sooner. It's not too late now either. And now we could actually do a lot more. And when you actually talk to Croatian citizens who are semi-informed or not informed about this subject, then you will see that with those who are skeptical about the introduction of the euro, it is much bigger because they do not read full information. And that's what I think the ministry should make a lot of, a lot more effort just to inform and communicate with the public, not only to the political public but also to the general, so to the citizens. I also think that the transition period should be much longer. People should be allowed an opportunity to get used to eus as such, but also to get used to prices. Because I'll only remember you, though it was a long time ago, but when Germany introduced the euro what was 50 cents, 50 pfening became 50 cents. It wasn't the same conversion, because it meant price growth by 100%, and the wages were converted to a cent. I'm just afraid it doesn't happen to us and we can try whatever way we can avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95924	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95925	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, what concerns many of our citizens, and what they themselves testify to is something I could call laity pre-inflation. Therefore, the very information that we will soon introduce the euro with the problems we have with current inflation due to the burden and energy crisis leads to the fact that many employers will be able to ensure that prices are high enough before the introduction of the euro, so that at some point when the euro does come, no one will be able to control them for their price hikes. And I think it's partially happening today. And then it's later to serve as an argument that their business remains the same. How to fight this and whether this is already enough argument given the current crisis that perhaps the selection of timing is not the best if we take into account the risk of any price growth that, with all these problems we have now, is hardly acceptable to any Croatian citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95926	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95927	Thank you very much, colleague. I couldn't agree more with you. In fact, my main question is timing, timing may not be the happiest, we can talk about good timing and entering the EU because of some of our fiscal needs, but fiscal policy is something that we will remain, but I share your fear and actually fear a good part of the public from that hidden inflation, and then hidden inflation at one point. We do not have to look very far for actual examples of this because we have already seen a lot of examples when traders and others have not treated consumers fairly, because every time the government has reduced taxes on certain products or on some services prices have not only increased their fat. And it's actually the same thing to think about with just one longer campaign for a longer transition period, and maybe thinking about timing itself, just conversions or transitions would help avoid this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95928	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95929	Your Honor, we heard here today a lot of theories, in one part and conspiracy theory, in one part of the real theory that can actually be confirmed through a variety of literature. We also heard about the diversification of the risk, we heard about the gold reserves, so there's a lot of it. The biggest problem is definitely the price hike, I've already asked a question to our colleague who spoke about Article 8, but I think basic control is now needed at the moment when we're going to have a double price. Here we will have a price of half a year, so that it will contain both in kunas and in euro on these products, and I don't see why it could happen without any problems, and no one reacts in the country that after 1 January when we move to the euro only to suddenly raise all these prices by 5, 10 or 15%. That shouldn't happen. So I think there's some kind of control. What bothers me is those additional documents that the minister will sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95930	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95931	Thank you, dear colleague, I wouldn't go into conspiracy theories, I don't think we should go into it, but what we should worry about is what you said. A much longer transition period per me, much more extensive and more intensive consumer education is something that is absolutely important. Because here's what I'm saying, Slovakia has been preparing you for two years of work, so what I've been saying is public education, prices in two currencies and so on, and in other ways a lot longer. So, talking to both retail chains and employers and employers. So that's one dialogue that lasted a long time. We unfortunately did not make good use of our approach to this conversion mechanism or fully exploited it. We can talk about both pandemics and other limiting factors, but what matters is that we haven't used them properly. And we're not even in this period when we could try to amortize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95932	Thank you. And now he will speak to the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95933	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, one of the earthly views of this debate. Currently, according to some data in Croatia, there are some 31 billion kunas in circulation, which are in coins. So let's keep it in front of us and read Article 31 of this law. The CNB shall carry out transport with the escort of kuna banknotes, which have been withdrawn from the circulation of its own special vehicles, and kuna coins withdrawn from the circulation of unmarked vehicles in accordance with the special security procedures of the Ministry of Interior, etc., etc. Article 4 of the same article provides for the proper disposal of the cash withdrawn from circulation by the CNB. I ask you ladies and gentlemen of the people. 31 billion kuna, I will indeed ask for it because several times the respected secretary of state has been mentioned here and the respected representative of Lalovac, the esteemed representative Ostojić and several colleagues and colleagues, we have just wanted to have a debate, so please, you have rights on behalf of the promoter, come here and explain this procedure to us. Where will 31 billion kuna go? Especially when we know you're on the so-called. the soft border with the neighbouring BiH without a problem, perhaps even in broad daylight, and under the cover of the night, it can safely drag the truck to two because in BiH the kuna is a completely legitimate means of payment, especially in some parts and in some parts of our neighbouring countries, and there it can all be commonly said very nicely fertilized and converted into the euro or equivalent as I said in a replica to a respected minister in goods and services. So, please be good, come here on behalf of the promoter, explain the procedure to us, or what this means is proper care of the money that is paid out of the incentive. I'm not prejudicing, of course, any criminal acts, but I think we have to and we have the right to know. How and how will 31 billion kuna be removed? Now, that's the beginning of what I wanted to say, and what I'm going to say and, of course, because it's quite certain that I'm going to run out of time, and in the final debate, here's the fact that I found an interesting, interesting text I'm going to try to read. Austria's foreign trade office, which regularly tests the mood of exclusively Austrian companies, among other things, because Austria is the largest Croatian investor to which around 29% of total direct investment in the survey has been contacted by 1,074 companies and representatives. It is about companies operating in Croatia, and they come from Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Hungary, the Netherlands, Germany, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the UK countries that make more than 72% of direct investments in Croatia. A quarter of respondents naturally cited the area of non-transparent public procurement and competition as a serious business obstacle. As next problems, there has been an unequality in interpreting the legal provisions, the unresolved state of the land books, the difficulty in communicating with the units of local, regional and regional self-government and what was expected of its majesty corruption. Believe it or not, Mr. Google remembers everything, without any problems, I found here about 20 minutes ago on the Internet this text that sounds extremely current, and it's actually about the text of the author Susana Varosanec from the website of the business diary of July 2006, so it's been almost 16 years since that text was written, so I'm asking you what actually changed very seriously and specifically? Will the introduction of the euro as some kind of smoke from the magic lamp at some point solve all these problems? So I'd like to ask you again to come here in front of the proposer and tell us that. Lower interest rates and credit rating growth another beautiful story, no doubt we all can't wait for that to happen. The launch of manufacturing processes and systems in Croatia, I must admit, I would say freely, we are looking forward to seeing. I'll leave the rest for the final hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95934	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95935	Thank you very much. My colleague Dretar, what you were talking about, are actually technical performance things, but just because all these things are unknown and technically implemented, I think that a year or less than a year is too short to actually do it right. In fact, I would like to strengthen your argument by the fact that there will be no limited time or deadline for the conversion of kuna into euro, so at any time you will be able to come to the CNB and replace your kunas for the euro. It opens up a sea of possible abuses. And it would be good to know at least on the resolution board if not on the tide how the government is going to jump in on this, what measures it's going to be, and how it's actually going to be done in practice because it's going to agree with me, this is a very big and huge step, and we're doing it we have a feeling of a shortcut or trying to skip two steps one step.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95936	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95937	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Representative Hajdukovic. As always, I have to admit a bit of a nerdy accent, but absolutely almost every debate here that we are the highest legislative home of the Republic of Croatia and that we are a member. The 31st century 4 in which the CNB writes ensures the proper disposal of the almost kuna money withdrawn from optics does not mean anything. We need to bring it here and we need to vote it out a way to provide the money properly. We need to know that because the people want to know that, too, the people who sent us here. So, I mean again, I don't prejudge anyone's criminality, but it's about an extreme amount of money and it would really be extremely responsible of the government of the Republic of Croatia to tell us which way security and technology procedures will take care of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95938	Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. On 9 March 2012, therefore, on today's very day, this assembly ratified our accession treaty with the EU. I remember being alone and then in the assembly's assembly, it was unanimous 136 MPs voted in favour. And of course it did, and on the basis of the referendum, exactly the turnout in that referendum was not more than 50% again, but we should consider that of those who went out over 66% of the citizens who went out voted for it. And then we made a political decision that included taking the euro for our currency, so entering the euro zone, so it was a political decision, a decision that she had and today has its own economic logic, but also has its own and political ones, so I would say geopolitical connotations. Because if Croatia's entry into the EU was the same in the context of our Euro-Atlantic integration and NATO, if it has defined us as part of the West, as joining that group of Western democracies, then we must today say that by entering the euro zone, and also entering the Schengen that we also want to move us perhaps from that periphery to the European core. So, by entering the EU, by joining NATO in that geopolitical sense, Croatia has exited one of the thorny areas of the Balkans, but it is on the periphery of the West, not only of course in a geographical sense but in a broader sense. And just by entering the euro zone, by entering Schengen, so by deeper integration we are moving from this periphery and moving towards the centre, which is actually seeking to strengthen and strengthen Croatia's stability and position within Europe, as well as within the international order. Of course, even when we were entering the EU, when we were completing this negotiation process there were critical tones that we were not yet saying, we should wait, we have not yet fulfilled everything, our judiciary is not perfect and there may be a lot we can say today that has been, to some extent, well, justified. However, the question is would we be in a better position today if we hadn't joined the EU then? I think that these events that show one change in the international order are just showing us that it is good that we are both in NATO today and in NATO, and it is good that we are in the EU today. Regardless of all the difficulties and thanks to these very Euro-Atlantic integrations, we are in a better position. And I also think that today these criticisms that we hear that this isn't the time, that we're not ready for the end, maybe there's a certain logic in it, and it's good to discuss it. However, we must ask ourselves a question, and what would be the consequences now, that today, on Friday, when we vote on this law, we will make a political decision that we will postpone our entry into the euro, which would then have consequences for the Croatian economy, for Croatia's credit rating, for the amount of interest, for our entrepreneurs, for our citizens? So, we have to be serious and responsible when we say that there are, of course, what Minister Maric has said very clearly and transparently today, there are perhaps negative connotations that we must be aware of, but when we are in force and when we look at who the benefits are and what are possible shortcomings then it is clear that we have greater benefits than entering the Eurozone and therefore we have to make such a political decision. Today, at a time when we have the instability of international markets due to more pandemic effects, because of unfortunately the aggression launched by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, however, in such a situation of instability, the entry into the Eurozone is now giving the Republic of Croatia one greater stability and more mechanisms to deal with all such challenges and problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95940	We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, Your Honor, Commissioner Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95941	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Stier, the way of Croatia to the EU, was long and painful, but in the end, it was worth it, and I can agree with you that there is always the need and justification for reviewing whether everything is done right and that fear that it may be wrong or that we are not prepared for something. You often talk about the importance of moving from the EU periphery to the core, so you see it as one of the instruments of entry into the euro area and Schengen. But I'd like to hear your thinking about expanding this subject a little bit. Do you think that moving towards the core can be done in such a way that those countries that have wanted to respect the same values, which have been waiting years for these European doors to open, Croatia can be a kind of patron in this sense, or that Croatia may play a more powerful role in EU enlargement?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95942	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95943	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Petir, for this issue, of course, moving from the periphery to the European core can be seen through two dimensions, one by entering deeper into European integration through the entry into the euro area, into Schengen, and on the other hand by moving these external borders of the EU further towards the east or by moving the borders of the European zone of security, peace and prosperity further towards the east. That's something, for example. The Germans wanted that border not to be in Berlin but to help the east, so now the Poles want to move further east and it's normal for us from our position, too, looking at what our national security is, the interest of our national security would like to Europeanise our neighbourhood in Southeast Europe. So, not only in that mechanical sense, the opening and closing of chapters but, indeed, the fundamental European changes in these countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95944	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95945	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I don't think it's really a question of us entering that euro area of ours and finally introducing the euro with the facts and these two years. and pandemics, and now Russia's attack on Ukraine has led to one instability not only in Europe but also beyond, and we see that what we see from the media or read that the EU is also thinking of introducing a common bond that would strengthen the defence and energy crisis that is coming to us, so I would like to hear your opinion on what, is this a good issue of these bonds common to the needs and defences and energy throughout the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95946	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95947	Yes, thank you colleagues for that question. It's not the first time we discussed bonds in this assembly, or the idea to, for example. The European Commission can go to financial markets on behalf of the EU as a whole. It was first done in one form of emergency with the EU Next Generation, so in response to the pandemics. And we know that some member states had previously been strongly opposed to such an idea because, of course, from their perspective, they knew that part or most of the later repayment of that debt would fall on them while the benefits might be more felt by countries like, like, the Republic of Croatia. But in the spirit of European solidarity, this was a good measure, and I think it is very important to think about it in the future development of the EU as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95948	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95949	Thank you. Dear colleague, I'm glad you've looked back on the historical context since 2011. when the pre-accession negotiations have been completed, the January 2012 referendum when Croatian citizens decided largely to join the EU, 2017. A public debate has been launched in a way that the citizens are sensitised and that topic is more accessible to them. By presenting the strategy for the introduction of the euro as an official currency, and now this is the final phase of joining the euro zone, entering the Schengen area, and I believe that we as citizens are mature to introduce the euro as national currencies, and that is why this law is the means that enables us to do so in a more painless way and a way that will not go to harm rather than to the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95950	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95951	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. I agree with you. I think that in this law now in the first reading that I hope we will provide support on Friday, it is precisely those mechanisms are envisaged that could potentially prevent or reduce the extent of those possible negative consequences, especially if they were to go with one artic inflation because of what we have seen some cases or examples from other countries when they introduced the euro. And that is why, based on these lessons learned, some mechanisms are being introduced. I think it is healthy to discuss this, but also to conclude as I have said before when we look at what are possibly negativity, but also what are the advantages of entering the euro area to conclude that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to enter the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95952	The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95953	Good afternoon. First, I'm going to look back on this periphery approach to the center, so my colleague Stier today is less 27% of the average salary than in 1978. Mirovina is 37% of the salary, it used to be 70% of the salary, 17.7% of the working-age population was evicted. 1/3 lives at the risk of poverty, so let's not just throw ourselves around with the thesis that we've come across, leaked, jumped, I don't know how we've been moving from the periphery to the center. I'm not sure which way we went. However, aside from both the theory and the pain of the euro for the Croatian economy, if there are years in which the euro should not be introduced, then there is also a gift from the sky, then this year it is a pandemic, inflation, crisis. It's quite hypocritical and cynical, so from those who represent the euro area themselves to say that sometimes we meet those criteria, it doesn't matter that we don't meet them now. We thought that these criteria that benefit us, that these are criteria that we must meet to deserve this entry into the elite club of countries as an equal partner, and we are practically entering as Greeks up to their throats in full, so the conditions in the worst geopolitical and economic pandemic crisis in the history of Europe in recent years. Of those criteria that must be met by me at this point, we're half unsatisfactory. Public debt and GDP ratios are well above 60%. Budget deficits are far above the target. The interest rates are low, but with each next re-financing now in the crisis will rise drastically. It can be expected to mean an increase of 100%. Prices aren't stable. The entire euro zone has terrible divergences for the first time in history. I'll say it's also a bit strange, even from those opposition MPs who advocate entering the euro area not to answer my question about the level of inflation. So in our country inflation regardless of perception of course in the public it is very much lower than in other countries of Europe. So I'll give you inflation rates in Belgium 96, Germany 5.5, Estonia 12.4, Greece 6.3, Spain 7.5. It means 5.5 to us. When high inflation is the European Central Bank must raise interest rates, conditions of borrowing are raised for all. For us at this point, if we ever needed and any useful autonomous monetary policy could benefit. Due to the divergence and inflation growth, the difficult brake of the European Central Bank is expected at the same time, and this will also cause a recession of Croatia when we enter. Then they will likely be drawn to the story that inflation is not a consequence of the euro, but of general movements. But the consequences will be difficult to determine, we will find it difficult to say whether it is the result of the introduction of the euro or the global recession. But also in this liberal and economic logic beyond any broader theory of the euro problem for the Croatian economy, the question really is whether it is not wise and rational at least to postpone entry into the euro zone at the moment means when war, inflation is taking place and a restrictive monetary policy is expected to throw us into a new recession, especially because we have a lower recession than other euro area countries. Some of my colleagues here have said that they don't believe even a little bit of Pernarian response, that they don't believe in that data, that the recession, or inflation, is only 5.5%. I'd believe it. I don't think there's anything to ask. It is simply a fact that our inflation rates are lower than in a number of other countries in the euro area. What's said about what we went into, we're in the process so there's no going back I'll tell you that Denmark has been in the R2 process for 20 years. She's in, so there's no limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95954	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95955	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Regardless of the obvious discrepancies during this debate on timing when it comes to the euro, we assume it will all go its course. So there's, of course, a lot of positive things, there's going to be costs, which will refer to the kuna exchange process itself for the euro, for an information campaign, for education, etc., but I don't think we've talked very much about the fact that a certain number of authorised exchangers will still have to close their doors, so those whose main activity is that. Well, according to the data available to us, 72 of the 852 and 364 people will be out of work. Do we already have any idea how the state might take care of them or maybe some kind of, business that will be able to take over, whether or not they have their employers? Any ideas how to take care of people? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95956	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95957	Well, I'm afraid they don't, it's not a question that I can really answer, but knowing our policies towards workers, I'm afraid they're always in that direction, you know, get on with it, buddy, if once you lose a job, it's up to you to get a new job, and in a country where there's one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, it's not that easy. There are very cynical remarks coming, for example, on this request, so often when you lose a job, so find another job, it's up to you to cope because we have a real problem with looking for and finding well-paid quality jobs, and even any jobs because we don't have an emigration of 17.6% of the working-age population because everyone can find a job where they want to. So I'm afraid that this question of yours that should certainly be asked by the authorities is not a very smart answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95958	And now she will speak to respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95959	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia in the first reading. I think this Law has been done with special attention, very detailed, about how many citizens and individuals have responded to e-Advise, I would say, institutions, and the answer to their comments and suggestions speaks enough with how much care this Law has been made. I believe that the remarks that have been heard today, although unfortunately I can say that I have not seen so many proposals for new ones, are more of an observation that it may not be the time to pass such a law, but these remarks are generally responsible for accepting or taking note of all the few who are not accepted. What is interested in our citizens is, in the first place, the principle of their protection and, in particular, the ban on unjust price hikes, which are the fundamental principles and the introduction of the euro. When we talk about consumer protection, it is precisely stated that the consumer is a natural person, so it is not considered a consumer a legal person, a company, but a very natural person as well as the regulations governing and protecting consumers. So detailed that we also have a special article that prescribes specific rules relating to rounding when we have a second decimal 5, bigger or smaller and the like. When it comes to the rules of double expression in business entities, it says that a business entity is obliged to make a clear, legible, visible and easily visible manner in the euro and kuna, with the application of a fixed conversion rate and in accordance with the rules on recalculation. However, we know that here, people know little, so we already have some mockery, so I would now say what the Law says about taking care of it and make an exception that it will not have to do, for example. grandmothers who sell onions on the market, meaning that we have exceptional that business entities that sell goods and provide services on booths and benches in the markets for a little while, then through machines, and then those who work on stands and benches outside the market for a little, in malls, as well as through kiosks, mobile sales, products in family agricultural holdings, etc., are excluded from the fact that they highlight double prices. Likewise, those places where we have large ones are excluded, would cause disproportionately large costs, as we heard from the minister, when he said that for example. Totems at gas stations will not need to show double prices, as well as casino screens, discount coupons, amounts to prices on scales, taximeters etc. I had a particular need to point out because we hear the concerns of some of our own, I'm not going to tell the entrepreneur, but there are small agricultural producers and so on, that they will have big problems if the law requires that, too, we say. Furthermore, supervision will be carried out by the State Inspectorate for the area of sales of goods and the provision of services, then the provision of catering services and services in tourism, tourist tax, etc. So in the exercise of supervision, the bodies will first adopt a solution and give an appropriate period within which this irregularity or illegality will have to be removed. Penalties are also prescribed. I would say them here and read them, so it doesn't happen to occur to someone to manipulate them because they say that during the period and the dual statement, when the price of the goods is not shown in a clear, legible way, or if no business subject pointed out a fixed course of conversion and, of course, applied it, they will have a fine of 20 to 100 thousand kuna. Not only will he have so much punishment, but the person responsible in that legal person will have to pay an additional 5 to 15 thousand kuna. A little less of course are penalties when it comes to craftsmen, natural persons, the OPG, then the fines from 5 to 10 thousand kuna, and after that period when we have everything in euros, then the fines will be from 2,650 to even 13,270 thousand, 270 euros and, of course, the responsible person in that employer. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95960	And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95961	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have well pointed out all the important things that are in the draft law and I think that in fact the law has well defined all the details that will take place and all the processes that will take place in this process of introducing the euro. What certainly concerns citizens the most as you pointed out yourself is that there is no fall in standards due to price increases. You're coming from our, our southern county. It is certain that on our Adriatic and our tourists and our hosts it is important to introduce the euro because we are based on tourism as activities, as well as on our business communities, but we also need to take care of the other citizens and what is bothering them. Tell me, do you think that through the associations of consumers like these today they will be trained enough to actually take care of everything that the law imposes on them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95962	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95963	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelkovac, you mentioned these consumer associations very well. Well, last week we had this on our benches and the debate on the report of the National Consumer Protection Programme from 2017 to 2020, and we could see that everything in that period was from '17. Until '20. 6 consumer protection organisations have any activity. There are those who, of course, work in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, have those such as the Association for Consumer Protection of Međimurje, here is the Sibenik Consumer who is acting in our area, but I am sure there will be much more needs now and many more people will reach out to these associations, and it has been heard that the Ministry of Economy will also provide a certain amount that will encourage the work of these associations, so here are the opportunities for them to engage more and help our citizens to protect themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95964	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95965	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in your presentation you also touched what our citizens are certainly interested in, and this is one technical part of the conversion of Croatian kuna into the euro. You said you prescribed a conversion at a fixed rate, the rules are defined to recalculate and round prices, also 12 months from the date of introduction of the euro bank, HPB and FIN are required to perform a conversion service without a fixed rate fee, then the CNB will do so for coins within 3 years, and for bills without a time limit. In addition to the money, the law provides for acts and goods issued, printed and sold before the introduction of the euro, and the price in Croatian kunas was printed on them, e.g. Postage stamps, tickets, stamps and the like, so can you explain what the law provides for such cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95966	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95967	Thank you very much, colleague Pocrniæ, so here's really an entire article that deals with this, we have, for example. books that already have a pre-printed amount. Of course, even on some bottles we see that it exists, it says 50 limes and so on, means with postmarks and we also have discount coupons, etc., it is true that until all stocks are spent, they will be able to be put into circulation and these bottles and those books and stamps, of course when paying the bill, there will be recalculation and rounding all the way it is stated in this law, so that part is foreseen by the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95968	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95969	My fellow Members, I agree with you that the critics of this law have mostly mentioned only a factor of time, so some of them have spoken is not the right time, the proposal I can't stop time, waiting for some optimal circumstances that I guess will never come. Others were even more inventive, they didn't just want to stop time, they wanted to turn back time, let's go into socialism because as it was supposed to be there, it was better. It's a shame that socialism fell apart, all those dictatorships actually fell apart, and well maybe they think it was because of some American conspiracy to break up, not because it was a bad system, as they were also restrained when we had a Declaration about Ukraine because they didn't think that aggression was triggered by Putin and that it was nothing caused but probably the same thing as America or NATO or I don't know who caused it, not the aggressor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95970	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95971	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stier, you said that well, some would be happy to turn back time, but I didn't notice that we were the same when we were approved, I don't know 10.7 billion euros in the financial perspective of 2014-2020, and then approved since '21. Until '27. Another 25 billion euros said no thank you wouldn't do that. I didn't hear that at all if it was said in this assembly, but right now, I'd rather give it back. However, the time not to return but not to need it, but we can only thank you for all that we have received and all those benefits that we will receive in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95972	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95973	Here I am not going to talk about socialism and long ago, but here I am going to use this replica to ask a specific question, or here, and to let the secretary of state hear from the HUP, so one, what is stated in Art. In 66, therefore, the underlying capital of a limited liability company will be recalculated and rounded up in accordance with the Law on the euro, while the same shall be entered in the commercial court by regular procedure or when the company so requests within 3 years, when it requests that it be changed whether it is in a commercial court. Here they warn that they will bury it, bury the work of the courts, so they will be long-term burdened by solving all these requirements, should at least allow them to publish this on their websites before the Commercial Court registers it, and perhaps even this 6th, in fact, remove it and allow it to be fully carried out under official duty... Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95974	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95975	Thank you very much, colleague Puljak. Well, I believe here today we just said that a little bit of there were some objections and suggestions, and I believe that this is what the representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state, and the co-worker, have heard that they will consider this proposal of yours. But as you read it yourself, it's safe and certain three-year term, not like in these other 12 months or possibly another 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95976	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95977	Thank you very much. Here we are in the first reading that you said there will certainly still be some additional changes to the final law and my position, and we share it safely that we should join the euro area because of all the benefits that Croatia is getting. Of course, all of the utmost importance should also be consumer protection, that is what you have noted. Through the debate, there was criticism about the moment, but in fact, in order to fully prepare us for the introduction of the euro other than legal assumptions, we should also work on a campaign to introduce it to people and work on controlling interactions with consumers, that they too point to those who do not adhere to the rules. Therefore, the whole process of the euro needs to be adopted systematically, planned, through laws, but also through the strategy and the whole replacement plan. It's not simple, it's not easy, it's not fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95978	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95979	Thank you very much, colleague Blažević. Well, here I would also tell you as mayors that surely you will know very well what became of you now, namely that you will need to hire all those that programs from programmers to not know all possible employees, but also certain decisions will need to be made on your city council. So if there have been any changes in the composition of city councils or county councils, there may also be problems, however, this law also provides for them. So if a certain decision is not made on the city council or the county assembly, it continues to go at these prices by recalculating it according to a certain criterion as prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95980	The next one will be a respected representative of Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95981	Thank you. The Russian reaction to Western sanctions will be swift, thoughtful and painful for those intended for Moscow, Reuters reported today. So it is clear that the situation is mildly said insecure and that we do not really know what the economic and energy situation is expecting and what will happen to inflation at all. It is also known today that the stable and resilient countries function much more successfully in the terms of the common currency than the states that are burdened by their own economic problems. And now the whole EU will be in trouble and the question is how will this reflect in Croatia? Unfortunately, we can't seem to hope for anything good, and it is necessary for the government to now prepare measures to ease the impact on citizens and especially on pensioners, including the introduction of the euro. According to HZMO, the average retirement pension of those eligible for retirement in '21 was achieved. It is 2,806 kuna, meaning 372 euros, which is below the poverty risk threshold as defined by the DZS, and it is not yet enough to cover food, directorship and medicines. There is certainly a need to join those with salaries from 3, 3.5 to 4,000 kuna, so it is a third of our citizens living on the edge of poverty, and therefore it is necessary to do everything possible to protect citizens from price increases because of the introduction of the euro because we know that Croatia is a wonder country and that the possibilities for profit are incredible, regardless of the mercy of the citizens and their economic situation. Unfortunately, an opportunity has been missed to use the information and education of citizens on all aspects of the euro introduced during the two-year participation in the European Course Mechanism. In the national plan, I will repeat by not knowing which way, for example, blacklists that have largely saved Slovenia from inflation, so today blacklists are no longer mentioned in the list of those reported for bad business practice. The minister is talking about the white lists. We have nothing against it, however, let both lists be published and should be published on the euro.hr and through other channels of other information, for example through paid ads in daily newspapers and on internet portals as envisaged in the national plan. So, unfortunately, it is the only way to better prevent unwarranted price hikes at the introduction of the euro. Slovenia has also shared with citizens small calculators in order to prevent abuses and this needs to be seriously considered until the second reading we expect a correct price control action plan because it is the most important thing for our citizens. Furthermore, citizens will be in the whole of '23. without compensation to replace 100 kuna bills and 100 kuna coins per transaction, and if in one transaction someone wants to replace more than 100 bills and coins it will be power, but the bank will be able to charge him a fee. We believe that during the period of change of currency there should be no such restrictions except for payments on ATMs, the only restriction may be under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists means a limited amount to which no form for preventing money laundering above that amount should be filled in, it should still be possible to change the money without compensation, only that the client has to fill out the mentioned form. We believe that the bank in this entire percentage has to do this technical part of the job without profit, they have had enough in Croatia, and they will have it in the future, I don't care about them. Which is the appropriate provision of swearing from art. 21 concerning, behold, we cannot remember Mr. Luka Rajic and a truck full of Croatian dinars changing in BiH, so, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you not to put your head on the line when it comes to this, but simply explain to the citizens what proper care means. And finally, I wish us all good luck to get to the introduction of the euro without major European and global earthquakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95982	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a little break before the final speech and we'll see each other.../incomprehensible/... again in about ten minutes. [[It's 6:08 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.15 HOURS]] 18 and 15 and we will continue to work and will finally speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95984	Dear Vice-President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, here it is, the 9th year that we are a full member of the EU. Unfortunately, these nine years we haven't left the very beginning of this, as some like to say, elite society. In fact, we have even succeeded in something few countries have succeeded in, and in the meantime we have been passed by one Romanian per GDP, and only Bulgaria has left behind. It should also be noted that, currently, some 66% of the EU's average development, and inflation at the end of 2021 was almost 5%. The worst, I fear, is yet to follow, primarily because of the Ukrainian crisis, and this is a drastic increase in energy prices at almost daily level, as well as a drastic increase in all prices of goods and services at a weekly level. Here is today our Europarliamentary says that we are entering a difficult period where we are likely to have a lack of certain energy, that there may be a need to introduce a power restriction in the EU as a whole, that it may be driving, as it used to be in that system, a couple, etc. This just shows that entering the Eurozone at the time of the EU's greatest uncertainty, and perhaps the biggest economic crisis in EU history at the moment is definitely not smart. In fact, nothing is going to change for us in a positive sense by entering the Eurozone, nor will we begin to fall from the sky, nor will our people live better. Unfortunately, I'm afraid there's going to be a further decline in living standards because definitely individuals are going to use this unwarranted price rise before double display and that's going to be an additional blow to our citizens. I don't even want to talk about a psychological story when a retired grandmother gets 250, 300 euros in pension, you can think about how much that affects the psychology of these people. But what is very important is to point out that a good part of those arguments that are mentioned here as the advantage of the Eurozone, unfortunately do not hold water. Namely, it says, interest rates will be reduced, the interest rate depends primarily on the financial market, rather than on the economic situation of a particular country, rather than on the currency of use or the means of payment in that country. There's been talk of bigger foreign investments. In Croatia two years ago, you had a total investment of 1.3 billion US dollars. In Hungary, which continues to have its own forint, you had investment worth 4.1 billion US dollars in 2020, which is 300% more than in the Republic of Croatia. So it absolutely has nothing to do with it, nor does it appear that the investments depend on foreign, payment, but they depend primarily on what kind of business climate is in a particular country, where the country is perceived by corruption and a number of other parameters where Croatia is still, as I said, almost at the beginning. It should also be mentioned that the only thing that will help the Croatian state enter the Eurozone is that it will probably have a better credit rating, and yet it serves what? Further borrowing of Croatia under slightly more favourable conditions. If that's the only reason, then we'd better not go into that and that Eurozone. But what I would like to point out is that once again we should not have to come out as a goose in the fog because, definitely by all these economic indicators, we are not ready for the Eurozone and I disagree with some colleagues who have said, we better be in that elite society even if they are the worst, what is wrong with one Czech, what is wrong with one Sweden, what is wrong with one Denmark, what is wrong with one Hungary? God forbid we should be like them, but with our kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95985	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Dretar will now speak finally on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95986	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State who we are still waiting for to take a few moments and come here and tell us, it's nice, but also worrying to see you nodding with your head. What does that mean? Are we worthy, unworthy, or do we simply not understand? Let it be here for you, here in this open, not quite personal, especially filled-up scene I'm asking. Come and tell us a few things, explain to us what we asked you. We're not ashamed if we don't know, so we're here to ask you. You're a person who, in cooperation with your minister and Prime Minister, makes a law. So come and tell us a few things we don't understand. I don't understand, I ask. Come and tell me. After all, if I'm not mistaken, that's why you're getting paid. But let's go one more time, this time from that perspective that we highlighted and in the debate. There is a document called Economic Adjustment Guidelines in the process of replacing Croatia's kuna with the euro. The document has already been analysed several times by journalists and independent economics and any other analysts. We have come to the question whether blacklists will be introduced on which company instructions that would try to abuse the process of introducing the euro in order to increase prices to the detriment of consumers. This is at least in the last case, we are talking about the Republic of Slovenia has proved to be a very effective method of protecting citizens, so why not be equally effective here in Croatia. We are talking or expecting the inauguration of so-called. A code of ethics in business. I don't need to be quite sure or legally educated, or particularly intelligent to conclude that the code is just a set of codes of conduct within a closed social group. The code is not the law, the code is something that causes injury that no one may or may not have to answer. There, the provost is reading nicely I pray that for the second reading seriously in the law or bill i.e. His final proposal here accurately and clearly states how consumers or ordinary people who sent us here will be protected. Unless we break that so-called one more time. A cloud of beautiful and pink soap, if the change of official currency from Croatia will create a stable, modern, prosperous and rich society I would recommend, for example, a dollar from the Cayman Islands that is an extraordinary and phenomenally strong currency or why not simply mention Bitcoin here in the debate. Will the introduction of the euro start production in Croatia? The question is which I'm going to leave hanging in the air for a few seconds. Shall we start the products? Ladies and gentlemen, once again I tell you something I tell people I sit with every day. Show me what is produced in this assembly in Croatia? This TV sure as hell isn't. This microphone is not 100%. Plexiglas is manufactured in Croatia but only in this form, imported from another country, be careful not to produce Plexiglas. Shall we encourage production? Hardly. I'm afraid there are some deals that we as ordinary citizens are working on, and we, as Parliamentarians, have no idea. The principle was quite clear quite well when we discussed renewable energy sources and showed as the Homeland movement on the simple fact that wind power plants are great, their every honour, they spin around here we have electricity. Except for the concrete for the foundations and the little land on which we're going to place them, we don't produce a single segment of the wind turbine. Well, of course, then some smart man will give us a loan to buy it, to buy that wind turbine, he'd be crazy not to give it to us. And since we're already touching national sovereignty, although it's very difficult to say and define the national sovereignty of billions of European money on the way to us, the way we're going to spend it, I'm afraid it won't be particularly effective, but I'm sure our great-grandfathers will bring them back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95987	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marin Mandaric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95988	Chairman, respected colleagues, fellow MPs, respected state secretaries, together with the co-worker, the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, ah many call it a technical law because we are now talking about technicals, the steps that await us, which we must do in order to really introduce the euro. I feel the need to point out once again that we are not actually discussing today whether we are for the introduction of the euro, we are not, are we going or not to go to the euro. We made it clear by entering the EU 10 years ago that we want to join the European Monetary Union as well. Okay, we've had some years of adjustment to pass, and today we're practically on the verge of getting into the Eurozone. Is this the right time? No, I'm holding it personally, and the HDZ Club is on the stand that it's the right time in the Eurozone as soon as possible. If all goes according to plan 1.1.2023. euro is the official currency in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that today's good part of the debate, again I say, was spent on lamentations whether or not we need the euro, and was not spent on the very core of the law that is very important. In the very reasoning of the law, when only the basic questions are dealt with by law, is there anything more important? Transferring to the euro, there is no person in Croatia who is not concerned. Whether a natural person, legal, corporate, public institutions, public bodies, all of us are concerned. One of the most important laws that speaks technique and explains the steps that will be happening in the period practically since this summer, as the hodogram is planned, so the whole of it is still there next year. And again in today's debate here, which has been practically here for 8 hours, effectively 7 hours every time we turn off the topic, when we spread to Ukraine, to inflation, to expensive grain, expensive oil, relativize this law and its provisions and somehow, some distraction is actually being introduced here into a constituency space where interested, interested parties, and there is no one interested in actually pulling away from the topic and not giving them what, what we should get. My experience in the last few days when I saw that the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency was under discussion this week, so I took advantage of a few meetings, coffee, talks to push through the issue of the euro. Everyone, somehow the general impression is that a lot of people know ok we go to the euro, but it turns out that virtually no one is aware that 1.1. but the euro is our official currency.../incomprehensible/... already 1.1. it is practically 9, 9 and a half months, that we will practically have double and double-showed amounts in accounts, on prices, everywhere, and I believe that both the Ministry of Finance, the CNB and all those who are technically in charge of introducing the euro are going to throw themselves hard at informing and clarifying the whole situation to the widest possible public. And this debate today, and the debate that is in the second reading besides its basic function to discuss what we like, which we do not like, which things are good, which may need to change, should be greatly improved in the function of informing and clarifying the widest possible interested public, which is what awaits us in the next practical year and a half. I am convinced that the task ahead of the ministry, in front of all of us, will be carried out at the height of the task as expected, so that the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia can make it easier to overcome the euro transition. We know that we are also sentimentalally bound to the kuna, to our currency, but on the other hand, we are a highly euroized country and I think that transition can be done properly and that people should sit in the right place to say so. But information and clarification as soon and as best as possible, every opportunity to use, and especially when it comes to the law and in the second reading. The HDZ Club of course supports this and here we are waiting for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95989	Thank you. A colleague, Brumnic, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95990	In 238, insulting MPs that they didn't know what they were talking about when they were talking about this law that the debate extended to seven hours inexplicably. I think it is very reasonable to discuss all the influences of this citizen law in the Republic of Croatia. And all the things that have been pointed out to the government's representatives here...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95991	It's a typical replica, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95992	You didn't let me say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95993	You can't, you're out of time and you're getting a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95994	It didn't pass the time when you started talking before I was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95995	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95996	But if you are, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95997	You have a second warning. Now final on behalf of the Social Democrats Club...... And take care of what you say and when you win. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You've already received a warning this morning. Do you want to get a third? All right, then. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Erik Fabianic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95998	Dear Vice President, proposing representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing how we will introduce the euro as a means of payment in the Republic of Croatia. And yes, exactly 10 years ago, 11 pardons this House ratified the EU accession agreement that we marked on the European Affairs Committee. Therefore, it is true that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the moment we defended Croatia through the Homeland War have always talked about the fact that we want to enter Euro-Atlantic integration, that we want to become a full member of the EU and what remains for us, we still have a way to enter Schengen and enter the euro area. It's the pursuit of this state and I think it has a broad consensus. It's a matter of ways here, and I agree that this first-reading law is not bad, it's good. We'll have another reading. However, the problem arises elsewhere. The problem is what until the entry into force of this law and its transitional and final provisions? I am for the introduction of the euro into Croatia. We give up part of sovereignty, at least the money that might be good, because I don't know how well we managed our monetary sovereignty when we talk about, say, programmed rabbit inflation in order to boost exports or tourism. But there's one thing that's much more important and what today was also about. The moment we enter the euro, the workers working in this country will be able to compare their minimum wage in euro or their salary in euro with those in euro in Austria, Italy, Germany, about Luxembourg not to talk. At the same time, Croatian citizens will also be able to compare in large trade chains operating both in Croatia and in Italy and in Germany and Austria, which is the price of coffee in euro, which is the price of paper towels in euro. Also on banking services that we will no longer have a kuna which is a risk currency we will look at equally which are interest rates on housing loans or on consumer loans or on car purchase loans. Let's compare these interest rates. As much as we have more or less one fixed exchange rate between the euro and kuna in the last 20 years, it's always been about seven and a half, a little bit more, but our interest rates have been much bigger. In the European legislation, such interest as we have in Croatia on the kuna would be declared in interest. But as they were in the kunas, then they weren't in the interest. It's a monetary policy that's been implemented here. These are the interest we had in this country during our kuna. No thanks! And that's why I'm interested in how there will be interest when we introduce the euro to both consumers and other loans. And there is one thing, it is a concern until the entry into force of this law as many of my colleagues have said, so we are for the euro, but it is a question of what will happen until the introduction of the euro or until a fixed rate is introduced. As a rule, the kuna fell at the end of the year because it was a great demand for euros. At this time, therefore, the beginning of March, April, Easter, Europe is already looking for the kuna and the kuna is growing. Why? Due to the Easter holidays and kuna is wanted for the purpose of spending annual holidays in the Republic of Croatia, well. At the level of 1000 euros today, the euro 20 kuna is more expensive than last month, so it will be in the next 6 months, how quickly prices will rise until the moment we enter a fixed rate, and the exception of what will be, the war in Ukraine. Let's watch what we're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u95999	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96005	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have announced, we are going to go to the vote, there will certainly be a request for a break, but I will announce the point and then feel free to report to anyone who wants to. Proposal to show confidence to Ivan Paladini for the responsibilities of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. The promoter is Andrej Plenkovic, president of the government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at a joint session of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Construction. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure on this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure set out that a half majority of all MPs, therefore 76 votes, are needed to show confidence in the members of the government. Before the vote we have requests for a break, a colleague of the coat of arms first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96006	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we talk about the minister, I think we need to speak openly about why we've even put ourselves in a position to conduct this debate. And the first answer would be because the previous minister had not done his job in the field of reconstruction did nothing of what he needed and had matured awareness that such an incompetent minister should be replaced. But Plenkovic's government didn't have enough of what I just said. Plenkovic needed the State's Attorney's Office and the police to knock on Mr Horvat's door, to bring him in, to end up in an investigative prison in order to be relieved of his duty. Three years ago, Plenkovic said I don't allow my government to be a nice label of corruption. But respected colleagues and colleagues, that label comes in itself. Then we talked about Kuštević, who today has a powerful indictment, today we are talking about Horvat who ended up in a prison of investigation. Dear colleagues and colleagues of Plenkovic's government, same as Sanader's prior corruption was given in her DNA and that fact. And let's not run away from that fact. And the candidate who's in front of us today is what to say. When we ask him about the restoration, the only thing he's capable of is saying that it hasn't worked yet. When we ask him about state property management, the only thing he can offer is his failed project. When we ask him about the spatial arrangement, he doesn't know anything about the spatial arrangement. And today, they're going to get your trust from the gentlemen and the ladies of the majority to behave just like those resistors. And that's an indicator of how much This government has failed and is in no condition [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in these difficult moments, lead Croatia. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96007	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. The break has been granted. Here you go, colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96008	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to further consult whether we should be involved in this shambles at all or whether our obligation to the voters is not to be at this vote. We heard from Prime Minister Plenkovic that his HDZ is different HDZ after a strong verdict to HDZ on corruption and crime. In the meantime, it happened that the European Public Prosecutor is doing a job which, Croatian institutions are not doing and the case is happening, and we see that European funds in Croatia are managed by people prone to corruption. Afterwards, we heard that he was going to plant his eyelashes, and he will not replace any minister after 2 days of the Minister of Construction in the country where he will now be two years after the earthquake in Zagreb, the year and several months after the Banovina earthquake, and nothing is renewed, the minister in charge of these things ends up in prison. The vice-president of the government, defended by coalition partner Milorad Pupovac in a scandalous manner, has been accused of saying that some special people should not be subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. As if that is not enough, Minister Aladrovic's immunity has now been removed, and the minister is directly accusing the first associate. And instead of discussing today the downfall of the government, it would be most fair to return the term of office to the citizens we get a candidate for a minister who is triple-probleming. The first thing is a business career involved with Russian capital, and it didn't pass any security clearance. It sounds very awkward today. Another thing if he has failed his project in Kuparim over 6 years as he will know how to take care of joint projects. The conflict of interest here is great. If the concessionary hasn't done anything for seven years, then you're taking his concession, and you're not setting up a minister who has 10% in that same project. If we add to that the criminal charges we heard about this morning, this is something completely unacceptable as this is mocking the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96009	Thank you. The break is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club of 10 minutes to consult further because we're standing by not to support the candidate for the new minister, not because of him because we don't know him enough, but for the past two years, we have no doubt that they will be in the future. And apart from the self-renovation that, of course, is justified and justified, this ministry has two other resolutions that are very important to us. One state property that is not fast enough to be put into operation, is abandoned, is abandoned, and there is a great hope for quality economic development and the state as a whole. And the second is a spatial arrangement, yes, we have total chaos in space. Mostly in Adriatic Croatia, in Istria we know this very well, we have an illegal construction, and despite the fact that there is a building inspection in that technical section, political responsibility in the spatial office is also on the minister of spatial planning. And with the renewal of these two topics are of paramount importance to our country's development as well as to the preservation of space as a strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, we will not support the candidate for this reason, and God forbid he can talk us out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96011	Now, my colleague Bencic will explain the recess, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96012	Thank you. In the name of the Green-Left bloc Club, I would first like to point out that we were really expecting a very fast quality minister because it is for all of us to go for both Banija and Zagreb because two years on this issue nothing is happening. However, Mr. Paladin, who is represented here as the prime minister's candidate or candidate of the government, is his entire career as an entrepreneur, all the companies in which he had staked or was chairman of the board of directors, all these companies were owned by Russian millionaire Mr. Gjardekin. We are talking about the Coopery Luxury Hotels and they are in his possession, the Institute of IGH owned, Radeljević project owned by him, and Avenue machinery owned by him in all those companies where Gljadelkin had shares there was a future minister or he was co-owner or was director of the board or supervisory board. When we asked him today about his role in the company Avenue mechanization through which according to the workers and presidents of the working council, all equipment, vehicles and machines of the Hydropower company and, therefore, the significantly reduced property value of Hidroelectrica was up to the level that workers had nothing to charge for neither their claims nor their severances first said that he had nothing to do with it or that he was not the director there, and he was co-owner. I'm not talking about some big company at the time she had an employee, co-owner has a very high role to play. And one more thing, you were the one who told the workers that the condition for the hydroelectric takeover by Gljadelkin was to sign an agreement that denied their claims. Those who gave up never came to them again, and they got fired and no severances. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96013	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96014	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. Today's first item of the agenda is the appointment of a new minister, the appointment of a new minister who comes into a hot chair of predecessors who did not leave because he resigned or was replaced by Mr Plenkovic but because he ended up in prison after we wanted to discuss his failed work. We think it's good to come to the post of minister and government of people from the real sector. When you come from the real sector you have a certain package behind you, but this minister carries weights around his legs that won't allow him not only to sail but he won't be able to take a single step. And at this point, look, we are dealing with the character and work of one man, we are dealing with the character and work of the minister, and we are not dealing with what the essence of the reconstruction is not, look at the two years of the earthquake will be a few days later announced the destruction of the first house, there is no destruction of that first house. There's no renovations in Bania. Prime Minister Plenkovic should explain to all those people who are in containers in Banja why he decided to be the minister that was important to announce who was the manager. He was supposed to be an operative minister, a minister who knew something about the job, not a minister who could manage and who needed the next time and the next months or weeks, or he said weeks, I would be perfectly correct, to get acquainted with the resort. Resor is serious, the portfolio is responsible and is a serious prime minister and the responsible prime minister puts such a man in that place, not a person who is only interested in getting another cartoon in the CV and goes on with his work. These people living in Banja have no choice but to live there, and today we are not offering them the choice of a new minister or the slightest hope for a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96015	The apartment is approved. And now he'll explain the request for a break from counterpart Penava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96016	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would like to ask you to take a moment in front of the House of Homeland Attorneys' Club so that we can consider this item of the agenda and set ourselves up with a proposal for Mr. Ivan Paladin's new minister because our views on this topic are twofold. On the one hand, from the point of view of our citizens in Banovina who have been waiting for too long renewal, who are already waiting too long for one possibility that should be normal in this country that people live in their home in their real estate where unfortunately because of their incredible incompetence and inoperability, time has wasted and respecting these aspirations mainly from the aspect of someone who has been in these situations and waited years to return to their home we understand these people and we know what it means to wait for the restoration and return to their home. On the other hand, we appreciate wanting to give Mr. Paladini a chance because we think that every man deserves a chance and we're not exactly prone to these qualifications. Now it's unfavourable to be and any label of the Russian story to have behind it, it reminds us of some times when people have been easily marked. We live in a democratic state and I hope that the services do their job and that it is theirs to assess who is on the link and who is not, but therefore respecting and wanting to believe future ministers that you will give yourself the effort and above all because of these people as soon as possible to bring them under your own roof. On the other hand, by considering both the view and the corruption of both the former minister and the HDZ, it is clear that the Homeland Movement is asking us to disband this government today and call the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96017	Here you go, colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96018	The Honorable President of the Assembly. I am looking for a break on behalf of the members of our Social Democrats club not to agree on how we will vote when it comes to the proposed minister because we simply would not want to enter into the area of the prime minister's responsibility as a proposing and those who will stand behind this proposal. I would like to say something else on behalf of the club, if I am convinced after and after listening to this debate which today has been and what has been said in the past days and what the media have written, etc., that as an experienced politician, Prime Minister Plenkovic has made aware of the importance of standing behind this proposal and when it comes to the competences of the proposed minister, and when it comes to morality and behaviour of his former career. Why do I want to point that out? This isn't just the choice of one minister as we've had before. If God didn't give the door of future Minister Paladin some kind of investigation, then it would no longer be the Paladin or Horvat case, Plenkovic and this government. So, I guess all the possible checks made it aware that for this serious and responsible portfolio we need a man if not.../incomprehensible/... on the abilities of managerial or Bergola by morality, but also a man who will in no way compromise a government that has already 15 times in such a way been actually compromised credibility but also because of expertise because what you said today won't be able to explain what you said. For the Coopers, that's our system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96019	Thank you very much, the break has been approved and, finally, my colleague Bačić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96020	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 10-minute break in order to point out once again that the candidate for Minister Ivan Paladin has all the competences and references needed to act as Minister of Construction. In fact, Mr. Paladin has experience in the construction sector, has experience in project management, state property management and real estate and certainly has experience as an entrepreneur and manager in a business that has been acting for a long time. The attempt to discredit Mr. Paladin because he worked with, in his former work with the Russian entrepreneur is nothing more than an attempt to discredit Mr. Paladin at the moment when both in Croatia and Europe and in the world mentioning the Russian Federation eloquently. I'm sorry that I have to spend a few seconds as many as I have on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to respond to the views of the Green-Left bloc Club. Gentlemen of the Green-Left bloc, you who have built your political careers on the activation of the activities financed by foreign civil society, agencies, NGOs and government sectors, today you are problematicd the role of minister, future minister of construction, which is on the market principle and basically one part of your political career among other things and dedicated to working with a Russian entrepreneur. The question can be asked, Is it possible today and this is how you do your debt to your donors? Mr. Minister, what the Croatian public expects you to do is, above all, to speed up the reconstruction, to spend 8 billion kunas that the government, billions of euros, the kuna that the government has provided. for the restoration of public infrastructure and to citizens who are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] still in alternative accommodation until winter secure [[Intruder: Thank you.]] their suitable accommodation. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96021	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96022	Infringement of Article 238, insult of representatives of the entire club, and their common senses. So, first of all, Mr. Bačić, we have made it clear today in all the speeches, so it is not a problem that he was working with a Russian millionaire or billionaire, but rather in the way he was done, which is a typical Russian Croatian, or I will not say Croatian, but a HDZ way of taking over the company, emptying their property so that they can go bankrupt, and the workers are left without being able to charge. So, that's what we're talking about. [[Intruder: My colleagues Bencic thank you very much.]] We're talking about it, and we're gonna talk about it. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96023	Comrade Bencic! Comrade Bencic! You're getting a warning this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is a replica of something that's very disturbing to you obviously. Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96024	The 238th violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Bačić without the intention of defending anyone by NGOs did not close Croatian firms. Croatian and Russian entrepreneurs did. People were left out of work on the street, signing a document that gave up their hard-earned salaries to get the Russian tycoon to our Croatian firm, and now the one who assisted him is becoming a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96025	My colleague Peović thank you very much for getting your warning, this is also a replica. That's it. Now we're going to go to the vote. Therefore, I am voting on a proposal to show confidence in Ivan Paladina for the responsibilities of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I say 131 MPs and MPs voted... 77 for, 3 abstentions and 51 against. [[Applause.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving the oath of a new minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia have been met. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 5. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sworn in in a way that the President of the Croatian Parliament pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls an individual member of the government, and the member of the government gives the oath by standing up and saying the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads. I swear that I will exercise my duties as a member of the government knowingly and honorably, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Mr Ivan Paladin, Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96027	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96028	Thank you very much. I congratulate the new minister and wish him much success in his future work and be successful in restoring our citizens as soon as possible to return to their homes. Hold on. ... Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96029	Thank you very much. I only ask you nicely because we are not all in the same hall that we have a notice or list of who voted or who voted and how he voted on the official pages of the assembly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96030	Okay, well, it's no problem, at least you should have pointed out before because this one I don't know if the voter's taken care of it, but if they don't know for themselves, they're gonna ask clubs who voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96031	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96032	We move to the next point, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 180. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Silvio Basic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96033	Mr. President, I warmly welcome you. The current Food additives, flavourings and food enzymes Act defines the competent authorities, their tasks, official controls and methods of handling, as well as the reporting of the competent authorities of the European Commission, as well as the obligations of official laboratories and entities in the food business for the implementation of eu regulations laying down rules for food additives, flavourings and food enzymes used in food. Since this is a second reading, and following previous discussions and discussions, I feel the need to define clearly what food additives, aromas and food enzymes are because of a better understanding of the subject, especially the citizens that are following us. Food additives are substances that are usually not used alone and are not consumed as food and are added for technological purposes, such as acidity regulator, dye, preservative, etc. Aroms are products that are not intended for consumption as such and add food to give it or change the smell or taste. The food enzymes covered by this bill are proteins obtained by extraction from plants or animals or fermentation from micro-organisms that can catalyze a specific chemical reaction. They are used for technological purposes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food. They are mainly used in the bakery industry for the production of fruit juices, wine and beer, as well as for the manufacture of cheese. The new final draft law removes unnecessary administrative procedures in order to delete the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and use food enzymes in food production, and the entry into the register of enzymes. It is a national provision which has been adopted for the purpose of collecting information on the use of food enzymes in the production, processing and preparation and processing of foods that are not binding under the provisions of EU rules, and the provisions of the current law are therefore one, and we can also say unnecessary administrative burden on economic operators. Namely, this amendment to the law, we are in line with the practice of other EU Member States. The tasks of the European Food Safety Authority and the implementation of an enzyme safety assessment have also been published on the European Commission's pages with a list of all enzymes for which they have received a safety assessment request. Taking into account that the establishment of that register has no added value in terms of greater food safety placed on the market in our country, the proposed law deletes these provisions. We therefore adapt to the practice of other EU Member States. The proposed law also revised the infringement provisions in a clear way. The level of fines is adjusted to the severity of the initial infringement, and the principle of opportunity has been introduced for certain offences which have no significant impact on the health and protection of consumer interests, which the entities commit for the first time. Indeed, according to the current law, the same penalty is prescribed in the case where, for example, data on the presence of allergens are provided, which we consider to be a very important threat factor for the health of the population, as well as in the case where the packaging of additives, flavours and enzymes not intended for the end-user is not, for example, the stated net quantity of products or food only, which is not really a threat to the health of our citizens. The new proposed law of the infringement provision is adapted to better reflect the impact of certain formations on the health and interests of consumers. Therefore, for infringements relating to the indication of mandatory warnings on sweetened information on the presence of allergens and information on the maximum permitted quantities of ingredients subject to the quantitative limit, larger fines are prescribed while for certain elements lower fines are prescribed. In the principle of opportunity, the competent inspector shall not lodge a proposal or an infringement order if the entity in the food business during the control or in the solution within a specified time limit removes the identified disagreement which has been found to have committed them for the first time and refers to certain infringements of the labelling of additives, flavours and enzymes not intended for the end-user or which do not have a significant impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. The possibility of a competent inspector to collect fines on the spot has been left only for infringements for which the lowest penalty is prescribed while, in the case of offences which have a significant impact on the health and protection of consumer interests, the competent inspectors will have to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96034	Thank you. Stay. Before you even spoke, we had a whole series of replicas. Let's take it in a row. First honorary representative Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96035	Dear Secretary of State, the fact is that the new EU Regulation 2017/625 is gradually applied. Part of the provisions of 28 April 2017, part of the provisions of 28 April 2018, part of 14 December 2019 and part not until 29 April 2022. However, unlike Croatia, many EU members have taken over these provisions earlier to prepare a system of official controls for new changes in time, and have informed the public about them. It is about official food controls, and we are witnessing numerous withdrawals of products from the market and poor consumer information. It seems that it is becoming a practice of the ministry, that two and more years late in harmonisation of legislation, and regulations are passed at the last minute, with the emphasis that compliance is not only delayed by the Ministry of Agriculture but also by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96036	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96037	So I didn't hear a question in this one of yours, they were findings that were partly accurate and that I couldn't accept. In fact, if something wasn't good enough, this is one process that we're trying to do the best we can to protect our citizens, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I also don't think we've noticed any major failures. And also what you're saying is that they're withdrawing various products, it really has nothing to do with this law. This is the truth, but this is precisely the result of good practice and is precisely the result of our inspectors investigating or controlling our market. But it really has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96038	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96039	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State in the current law mentions the register of enzymes established by the Ministry of Health, however, the provision is now being deleted. Right? Now I am interested at EU level, and the European Food Safety Authority, which conducts food enzyme safety assessments, says a list of Community food enzymes will be established. When will it be, do you have a final appointment? Another in progress is the creation of a unique methodology for collecting information on food intake of additives and aromas in all Member States when will it also be? Do you have that two information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96040	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96041	Unfortunately, I can't answer because I really don't have any information when it will be. But I hope that it will be within the shortest time frame and this is really not up to our will or some of our actions, but depends on the European Commission, because this way regulates precisely the presence of enzymes throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96042	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96043	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the Republic of Croatia, there was just one survey related to this topic and 86% of respondents claimed to have met with the term food additives, but few fewer know what the role of food additives is, and an even smaller percentage is familiar with the system of numbers that are undoubtedly the current topic through this law and through nutrition in general. So I'm interested because we're pushing as a topic of healthy nutrition and the introduction of it anyway, I'm interested in what only the ministry is doing about the education of our citizens because we know that the declarations and they're not so readable and it's not clear to our citizens what they're buying and what this system of numbers means, and we know that certain products are every little bit and they're withdrawn from our shelves just because they're disproportionate and the additives themselves, as well as the aroma enhancers show up afterwards that they're harmful to consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96044	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96045	Well, it's really hard for me to answer your question briefly, but what our ministry is doing for the education of citizens is not only a topic of the Ministry of Health, but a little broader subject of which we are aware and who we are trying to educate citizens about the need for a healthy diet not only taking under quotes of healthy food, but also healthy life to prevent a whole series of chronic diseases that unfortunately threaten our populations today. And I think we're going to present a lot more to do in the future, but I repeat not only in the vault, not only in the Ministry of Health's portfolio but also in the Ministry of Agriculture, perhaps the Ministry of Education. This is a very complex issue, and we must strive to provide our citizens with the best information in order to get healthy food, and also to live healthy lives as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96046	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96047	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. That law was adopted in 2013 and that same law required the entry into the register of enzymes. But the register has not been established to this day. Also, these amendments to the law represent a reduction in consumer rights and absolutely does not go to their advantage. And I would ask you for an explanation for all of the above and why laws are passed if they are not ultimately implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96048	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96049	So it's absolutely not true that this law harms or harms our consumer. However, this is what we are harmonising with practice with EU Member States and we are only regulating this the way in which legal entities will continue to behave in their practice. Because to make it simple, we've removed the obligation from a small neighborhood baker to report the enzyme that puts into the food and which he bought legally let's say it under quotes in the store, on the market. So, it's not the idea for us to burden economic operators to report what they put on the market, but rather to regulate with regulation what will come into the market, and then he'll buy what is legally available to him. There's no need to report to us what he put in his product. I don't know if I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96050	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96051	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here is the debate in the first reading of this law through the debate that we went through through the Committees on Health and Social Policy, which has been mentioned several times by the register of enzymes and the national provision that brought it. However, according to the reading of this law and the first reading, and the second, it is seen that the entry into the EU is in fact a complete legislative regulation to be updated precisely by the current EU regulations which are subject to the Republic of Croatia. That's why the register has lost its significance, has actually become one, one burden for all those stakeholders in the application of this law. It is also extremely important to say that the European Food Safety Authority regularly evaluates the situation on the ground and that the list of food enzymes will be adopted throughout the EU, with all specifications and conditions use. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96052	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96053	Well, that's right, legislation is one process, like life's process. And what seemed good yesterday may have improved today. This is exactly the legislative proposal that improves current practice, reduces obligations for economic operators and is in line with current practice in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96054	Honorable representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96055	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Secretary of State, therefore, is a proposal for a law that is relatively simple. There were no major changes between the first and second readings except for the law office that I think was one topic. So there was essentially no big change. And in the first reading, and now something that puts questionnaires above our heads is next? The 2013 draft law set out that it should be a register of enzymes. That enzyme register wasn't established, and now in 2022, nine years after that, it's actually gone through this amendment of the law. So I'm curious about it, in 2013, it was some idea that this register of enzymes needed. Why was it not established, and what was the problem with him not being established? Of course, if 9 years are gone in '22. You will, you will end it because obviously some things have changed as life has changed, but why it has not been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96056	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96057	So I'd like to answer what's the point of the enzyme register, at this point it's gone. The sooner we can speculate about it, the more we can discuss, of course you have the right to ask something like this and to rightly argue it, but I would turn the story around at this point the register doesn't make sense, and it represents an additional burden on our economic operators, so why don't we get in line with EU practice and say ok this is no longer necessary we move on. And why something didn't happen before, I really can't answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96058	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96059	Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions for you, and then I'd deepen that through further discussion. My question is this: firstly, I saw that titanium dioxide was withdrawn on the EU market, which is E171, which is mainly a dye used for gum gums, pastries, food supplements and soups. And what's the main feature of this enzyme is why they pulled it off is the genotoxicity that damages DNA. I made an effort so I went to the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and I still see that it has not been withdrawn on the Croatian market, so I am interested in why by the 5th month should be withdrawn at EU level, at least it has not been mentioned. And the second question, so I see that this is mostly in line with EU directives, so I'm quite interested in whether you're going to introduce an institute of unannounced controls? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96060	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96061	On your first question, we have until the 5th month, and then we'll match this one to what's supposed to be. Also, although I don't see any direct touch points, of course there are points with this bill. And to this second question of yours is absolutely this one I agree with, for the need for such a thing, and so we need these laws, so we will not further control, but we will strengthen the control of our market and of course we are thinking that controls can be and unannounced as well, it is the fact that inspectors as secret customers can go to the store and do unannounced inspections. However, that is what is being considered and I hope that it will be very soon spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96062	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned an unnecessary administrative burden that has actually not been prescribed by anyone before, but in fact it was our national desire to standardize something that proved to be unnecessary. Since the EU is doing this, these areas of food are very well monitored, it will continue to monitor everything that we are going to throw out of our national law, but that does not mean that there is a concern that something will be left out of this European regulation. I think it's good because it's also the intention of this government that everything that can be administratively reduced in order to make it easier for everyone to operate easier and easier both in the final and financial burden. Is that the purpose of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96064	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96065	Exactly, if something was once a good intention, or perhaps at that point it was completely justified, if we now see that it is an additional burden because it is indeed an administrative burden on economic operators, it does not really mean that our food safety is violated. However, we have left this as everyone else in the EU to the European Commission, but we will further free up space and strengthen the control of all the food that is on our market, because we are aware that there are greater and greater dangers and because of technology and because of.../incomprehensible/... in the world, aware that there is an additional possibility that some food that may not be on our shelves and we will be leading, we will do everything we can to make sure that more and more accounts are done precisely in the control of this food and I really do not see any reason for the concerns of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96066	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of the Centre and the Voice of the Honorable Representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96067	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, is in front of us in the second reading, so the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Adjudications, aromas and Food Enzymes. Between the first and second readings, as the Proposer said and the Secretary of State, there were no changes, the only changes that were related to the nootechnics or observations of the Legislative Office. It is a law that is relatively, I would say, of those of that group of technical laws, there are only 10 provisions and it is relatively simple, but also such challenges and a lot of questions and a lot of discussions in this ministry, for a reason, it is food. It's about the consequences of our population's health, it's about protecting consumers, it's about a number of things. So what's important to say is this, which is that really from the law that came into force in 2013, so now it's 2022, in 9 years things have changed. Things have changed in the idea of some things, things have changed in technologies, things have changed at EU level, things have changed at the level of certain thinking, and something that perhaps 15 years ago has been so, quite worrying or almost impossible that it is really happening now that certain products are being removed from the shelves because they are found to have in their composition certain food additives or enhanced aromas or all together that is excessive and we come up with a few things. The first thing we really need to work on and see what can be changed, these are these unfortunate declarations. I ask you, all together, whether you have glasses, whether you see it well or not. When you buy an individual product and want to have really full information about what you buy and what is on it, are you able to read the declaration? Are you able to read it at the store, there are even those stores that have the option that you have so much increase, I have an increase at home that's old because of some other things and sometimes when I'm interested in the exact composition I'm going to look at it and it's almost impossible for me to do it. So what needs to be seen and seen at the level and certain EU institutions, which can be changed here, or what these data are necessary, which any consumer needs and should be important. So that's what's important to know what we're buying, but not just to know what we're buying but to know what we're spending. We've been living for two years now, so two years in the context of life with the crown, or Covid 19, and I don't need to remind you because, of course, the last two weeks have been all eyes and thoughts somewhere else, but the discussions that have been and were among all our fellow citizens about the vaccine problem where all of a sudden we've all started to understand the vaccine, the composition of the vaccine, from which we want the manufacturer to be a vaccine, which we don't, which we want to be vaccinated with, which we don't. We suddenly became aware that when we take certain medicines, there are some things there too where we should read the side effects. Someone read them and someone didn't. But we also became aware of the fact that perhaps we should really take care of what products we buy, that we should become aware of the fact that everything is happening on the market. This summer was at one point, they were removed from the sale of ice cream. So the whole line of ice cream was removed in summer and what's good is next, and that's that you got that information in time, that it was a clear word of what's going on, and in fact somehow we're trying to develop this world about what we're buying, how we're eating, what there is, and that in time, really get what's not a place, or what's being concluded and what's through a certain laboratory and through it sees that there's some compositions that we don't need to have. And we come up with something that's my favorite subject and I always try to say, the role and importance of the inspection. So we often experience our inspection as some kind of repressive body or repressive tool that goes around, which charges penalties and which somehow scares some people, but it's really connected to that whole big industry, the food industry, that's the role of the inspection is extremely important. It's important that they, so that she does her job. For that, let's light up, people have to be educated, people have to be educated, people have to be all the time with a number of things. So inspectors must have good knowledge regarding certain administrative procedures to make these solutions properly, but they must also have some additional knowledge that is related to the specificity of their work. So today, in general, industry, especially the food industry and all those enhancers and everything else, is developing so quickly that you just have to follow it, and I think it's extremely important to shed light on that we need to have inspectors who need to be educated, who need to be able to.../incomprehensible/... follow it because they can simply do their job in the best possible way. As I was saying at the outset, so I'm going to finish, it's relatively simple law, it's about 10 provisions, we're in line with EU directives, what we're always trying to stress, it's good to follow it, it's good to keep an eye on it, and it's good to have products that are sold to be about the same quality and in the same way as some other products in the rest of the EU countries, it must never have happened, or at the beginning, and now I hope it's getting smaller and it will absolutely disappear to see that the difference between the products that are on shelves in some other EU countries is different from the products that are here. We are the same EU members, and we are the same market, and it would be good if they were the same products and I think that it is getting more and more smaller, but I hope that there will no longer be any difference there and that this will really lead to that, that in the same way we all who are therefore in Croatia have the same products as in some other countries that are EU members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96068	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96069	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and respected peoples who follow us through the screen. This proposal amends and complements the existing Law on Food Adhesives, flavours and food enzymes is primarily a alignment with the new EU and Republic regulations. In addition, what is visible in this final draft of the law is prescribed additional obligations for food business operators in the field of self-control and risk analysis, and more clearly defined and non-complianceal provisions. These moves certainly point to even better consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia. Art. 26. describes the obligation of the manufacturer or the food additive user to inform the Commission without delay of any new scientific or technical knowledge which may affect the assessment of the safety of the food additive, and 5. says no one should place on the market food additives or foods in which such a food additive exists if the use of a food additive does not comply with the regulations. And why are these two articles of the law important? Therefore, if the product in which the composition and proportion of its ingredient is not in conformity with the legal requirements, the product must be withdrawn or withdrawn from the market. I have touched one example of such withdrawal in communication with our Secretary of State where the European Commission has published a Regulation prohibiting the use of titanium dioxide and E-171 since May 2022. The titanium dioxide is currently used as a dye in many products such as chewing gums, pastries, food supplements and soups. The content of the content has negative health consequences that damage the bowel flora below. It is also said that titanium dioxide can also affect the development of cancers. The Member States’ decision to ban E-171 stems from an EPSA safety assessment which concluded that titanium dioxide accelerates the genotoxicity defined as the ability of chemical substances to damage DNA and may even have carcinogenic effects. November 30, 2021. in the Official Journal of the EU or... refuses to approve titanium dioxide E-171 as additives and in animal nutrition in the category of additives sensory additives and in the functional group of dyes or substances added or renewed in animal food. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both that Regulation and the provisions of the existing additives must be withdrawn from the market by 20 March 2022. Although the provision of the European Commission has been valid since May 2022. What I mentioned in the opening issue on the official pages of the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency, I did not find a list of these products that should be withdrawn in accordance with EU provisions. The second example, not long ago about the successful withdrawal of products from the eu market took place in the withdrawal of materials that come into contact with food or... bamboo melamine from the EU market. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, it has been found that the use of bamboo fibres or other natural ingredients in combination with polymers such as melamine releases toxic components that are harmful to the kidneys or melamines and are still carcinogenic, formaldehyde. The European Commission's official website states that despite the fact that the withdrawing Regulation has been adopted and requires the withdrawal of plastic materials that come into contact with food containing both bamboo and other herbal additives, EU members have unfortunately noticed that their illegal sales continue to be uninterrupted. Today, I must commend the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia who responded immediately to the official site of HAPH where they informed consumers of the withdrawal and recall of the product from melamine. These are melamine plates, children's cups and plates and those famous coffee cups that go. The first part done jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food is excellent for all praises, because all these products have really quickly and effectively been publicly recalled and banned on official pages. However, if it is tried according to the European Commission's reports, despite Member States' bans, it continues to sell bamboo melamine products illegally. This second part is much more important, and it's an exercise of control, and here I have an inquiry for the legislator. Did you exercise control over these three products I listed? Let's just say the last mentioned glass of melamine go with bamboo fibers is dangerous because of the possibility of migration of formaldehyde to products, and they are carcinogenic. This proposal also mentions punishment if it does not ensure what the law calls traceability or traceability. We know firsthand that some companies do not keep the regular records necessary for the traceability of food products, but still everything is in order because the control is announced. This final draft of the law is mostly about the specification in which someone will be punished. And it's okay if it's just and justifiable, but who's gonna get punished if unannounced controls don't get carried out. So we have a problem not carrying out unannounced controls which should also be incorporated at least by law as such does not recognise them. The responsible person in the food industry must be familiar with the way the food additives are used and should be followed. The problem arises when large food, when large food companies are faced with potential economic losses due to the decline of raw materials. For example, in the meat industry, this is most often due to inadequate storage or inadequate temperature of the cooling container when transporting raw materials due to the use of good manufacturing practice and good hygiene practices that are the basis for all businesses. Sanitary inspection is responsible for the supervision and control of companies when it comes to hygienic conditions at work. During the annual monitoring exercise, the sanitary inspection is announced and the company is able to prepare to meet all parameters. However, how often are unannounced controls carried out by large companies? A well-known Croatian company that deals with meat and meat processing prepares meat for processing and processes it under inadequate conditions and rarely develops meat corruption and is then balanced with the additive in order to cover undesirable organoleptic properties and is placed in the market in the form of ground meat or stew. How can it go under the radar? The Croatian Food Agency today has conducted research on the types and quantities of food additives present in the Croatian market on the basis of which scientific opinion on food additives was issued in 2014. The study defined 38 different additives of which 2 are potentially risky to human health in terms of the quantities in which they are consumed. These are potassium nitrite E249 and sodium nitrite E250. And it is these additives that are specific to the meat industry because they inhibit the growth of anaerobic bacteria and toxin production and participate in the formation of a specific red meat color, stabilising the aromas of stored meat by preventing unwanted products from oxiding. Generally looking at these very additives make it easier for the local industry to reduce its potential losses, so control should be strengthened in this area. It's also a proposal, but it's also the official position of the Most. Uncontrollable and unconscious use of additives in food production may lead to the development of intolerance to additives. In the EU 0.026% of the population developed intolerance to additives. Although the number of people who have developed intolerance is very small, it is important to take care and put the use of additives under control so that the number of intolerant to additives does not increase. And that part is good and we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96070	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96071	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, this legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The proposed law aims at the administrative discharge of economic operators in such a way as to remove from the applicable law the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production and the entry into the register of enzymes, thereby eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, we received an explanation that the register exists in the EU and that the Republic of Croatia is serving it as a member, but we also see the problem of abolishing the provisions of food analysis before leaving, before entering the market. The problem is not only in the order of additives, enzymes and aromas, the problem is also in the cumulative effect that should be thought about. This provision also reduces the rights of consumers and should certainly be considered. Let us ask ourselves how effective this law is when the law came into force from 2013 and we did not form a register until 2022. Now we delete that register from the law, and that raises the question of what happens to the law when we adopt it. How many laws did not receive their sublaws, and did it even begin to apply? So, for example. We have a rule of the Hemp Act, two years ago it was passed, and there are still no regulations. Does it make sense to pass laws that we have no intention of implementing? The proposed law refers throughout the text of the law to the provisions of the 2004 EC Regulation on official controls carried out in order to verify compliance with the rules on food and food for animals and animal health and welfare rules which are no longer in force and amending the relevant provisions of the 2017 Regulation. Food enzymes are proteins derived from the extraction from plants or from animals or fragments from microorganisms that can catalyze a specific biochemical reaction. They are used for technological purposes, in production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food. They are mainly used in the bakery industry, for the production of fruit juices, wine and beer, as well as for the manufacture of cheese. Based on the 2008 EC Regulation on food enzymes and amendments to the 2008 Council Directive The European Food Safety Authority shall carry out the evaluation of food enzymes, and a list of Community food enzymes with the prescribed specifications under the conditions of use will be established at the end of the evaluation of all enzymes. The Ministry of Health shall declare its competence to the European Commission within the meaning of the provision of Article 1(1). 15. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 445/2014 of 13 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). as the competent authority for the implementation Art. 9. The applicable Food additives, flavourings and food enzymes Act prescribes entities to apply before placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production and enzymatic register entry. It is a national provision adopted for the purpose of collecting information on the use of food enzymes in the production, processing and preparation and processing of foods that are not binding under EU rules. This register has not been established so far, and there is no full application of all the provisions of the current law. As you say, a European list of food enzymes is being introduced, but at 9. We could offer them already formed our own list of food enzymes. I repeat, this is a big problem and a step back that the law did not comply and that's why we'll be restrained. But harmonising controls and ways of handling, as well as reporting to the competent authorities and the European Commission, as well as the obligations of the official laboratories and entities in the food business for the implementation of EU rules which are regulated by the area of food additives, flavouring and food enzymes we support. That law was nominated in 2018. in order to implement the measures contained in the National Reform Programme 2018. in relation to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy and improving the business environment or implementing measures to unite economic inspections in the newly established State Inspectorate. Namely, the National Reform Programme has established a reform measure to unite inspections with the State Inspectorate as a basis for more effective conduct of inspection tasks carried out so far in the central authorities of the State Administration, inspection tasks from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health or veterinary inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture as of 1 January 2019. He's taking over the state inspectorate. What is the number of former sanitary inspectorates, and can they cashly meet the needs of a growing number of different foods on the market? We're witnessing that the items are often withdrawn from the market. The question is, how many times have we managed to alarm the European market, and how many times have we been informed? It is good that we are in the EU in a system to inform us, and that our citizens are using this benfit. Is the State Inspectorate Act in line with these new provisions and penalties? Therefore, the aim of this law is to define more clearly the infringement provisions, and to adapt the level of fines to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. The proposed law audited the infringement provisions in such a way that the amount of fines is adjusted to the severity of the offence committed, and in cases of certain offences which do not have a significant impact on the health and protection of consumer interests, the amounts of fines for legal persons, the persons responsible for the legal person and the natural person of the craftsman have been reduced, the principle and the opportunities for certain offences committed by the legal person, the responsible persons in the legal person and the natural person in the craftsman, and the possibility of collecting penalties at the place of the offence for the individual infringements committed by that person. We support that part, but ultimately, as we have said, this is a step back and for this reason we will be restrained in voting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96072	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club of Honored Representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96073	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have already said that we are adapting our national legislation to EU Regulation 2017/625 to these proposed amendments to the Food additives, flavours and food enzymes. However, this Regulation was published in March 2017, applies extensively from 14.12.2019, however, we are coughing over 2.g. The fact is that this new regulation is being applied gradually, part of the provisions of April 2017, part of April 2018, part of 14 December 2019, only part of 29 April 2022, but unlike Croatia, many EU Member States have said that they had taken over these provisions earlier in order to prepare the system of official controls for new amendments and inform the public in time. It is about official food controls, and we are witnessing the numerous withdrawal of products from the market and poor consumer information. We have already heard what the aim of the proposed law is, say the administrative dispensation of economic operators in a way that deletes the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing food enzymes on the market and the use of food enzymes in food production and enzymatic registers from the current law, so that item is deleted. Of course, any reduction in administrative discharge of economic operators in this difficult financial situation is good, but we hope that it includes both micro and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and in this sense it is welcome. However, again, we are asking more questions, the enzyme register has not yet been established even though the law should have been, and then we ask how all of this will be monitored and monitored together, and in the end, why the decision on the establishment of the register was made in the first place if the EU regulations did not oblige us to do so. In our opinion, the ministry has somewhat transferred responsibility to producers who themselves must take care of compliance with the laws and procedures relating to application and sampling, sampling. There is no support for manufacturers on this issue by professional services but as almost all other issues are left to themselves. In line with what I asked in the replica, it is therefore said that a list of Community food enzymes is being established at EU level, and when it will be the secretary of state said it does not know exactly. We are also waiting for a unique methodology to be developed to collect information on the dietary intake of additives and flavours in all Member States which will also serve to assess the risks associated with the consumption of certain additives and flavourings. You also don't know when it's going to be, and the law mentions it, mentions the risk assessment. Furthermore, as regards penalties, the amendment of the existing Articles 13 and 14 provides for a reduction of fines for violations of the law, with the reason that the proposed law aims to more clearly define infringements and the level of fines adjusted to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. Everything's fine until something happens. What if the product is already on the market and the damage is done to the consumer? What is a questionable point is that all the amounts of fines are reduced instead of increasing, thus reducing and protecting consumers indirectly, because the penalties are the means of deterrence especially for the sake of profit, which are actually gambling with consumer health. The EU Office 2017/625 on official controls introduces the principle that the penalty should be liable to the offence so that those who deliberately violate the rules would not be paid for it for the sake of low maximum prescribed penalties. Well, as someone earns a profit of £200,000, you give him a fine of £50,000. It's worth it. One of the offences for which penalties are reduced is the improper labelling of additives on the packaging of products that go to the consumer, but the one that is allergic and uses the product containing the problematic allergen which is not properly marked for, I have been shut down. Furthermore, the law states that the ministry regulates food safety policy, monitors and harmonises legislation, draws up guidelines for inspection plans or official controls. The State Inspectorate shall adopt and implement inspection plans or official controls on the basis of a risk assessment that must contain monitoring plans, taking into account the Ministry's guidelines. Now, as far as this risk assessment is concerned, in March 2017, when the European Parliament voted this law, it was presented that, according to that risk assessment, it would be more frequent and more thoroughly controlled by those food producers who had past violations of the rules while model producers who had no problems with the law would be more closely controlled. The point of the change is to concentrate veterinary and other inspections on the problem points in the food chain. However, now we are certainly interested in the data of how many sanitary inspectors, veterinary inspectors who carry out inspections regarding this law, how many controls have they spent the last year, issued penalties for which additives were involved? So that information must be widely available. Furthermore, how many labs are in the Republic of Croatia for analysis, how many are sent to laboratories outside the Republic of Croatia? In Article 10 of the existing law, it states that the costs of the analyses carried out shall be borne by the State Inspector unless the analysis proves that the sample is incompatible with the costs borne by the parties. And now the question is whether because of this data maybe we're saving with the number of analyses, how much money is spent in a year, how much is expected in the budget, so here I went to get the data out just so that a little bit here we all remember together. So the State Inspectorate was scheduled for 2021. 354 million 744 thousand kuna, the execution for the first 6 months was 145 million kuna, so 40%. And now, for the 2022 budget, more than 431 million kuna are scheduled, and for 2023. 444 million, so there's some more resources, as far as the execution is going to be, we'll see. We'll follow that anyway. We talked a lot about declarations that must be clearly visible, information read in Croatian, but what is important is that we inform our citizens what additives are in food. So, that complete list of E numbers would certainly be good if citizens didn't have to look and type into Google as I now had to if I wanted to inform myself rather than have brochures that would tell citizens a little bit more about it. So, which additives are most common, which should be avoided, which are of natural origin, which are not, so in any case we need better education from our citizens. Also when you go to look at E numbers, there's a whole series of them, some are more dangerous, some are not. This one should also inform the citizens. Then there are the most dangerous food additives for you, there is definitely a need to mention the monosodium glutamine label E621 which is an enhancer of taste. It can be found in many products, perhaps people don't even know, instant soup, ready meals, fast frozen food, food supplements, snacks, mustard, margarine, gum, melted cheese, pasta. Sometimes it can also be found called natural aroma, and in slightly larger quantities it can actually be very, very dangerous. It is also necessary to educate people and others who are also these additives that are desirable to avoid. The list of health-threatening emulsifiers should also be taken into account. And in any case, I say, except for more legible declarations, I certainly inform people better about all these items that I have listed. There has been a lot of talk on the withdrawal of products at EU level and in Croatia, so this system of mutual alarms is working, and state inspections are doing something. However, when withdrawing the product, it is necessary to inform the public in detail and remove panic if possible. And in the end, we have to conclude that we meet in principle in daily life and then we wonder who is responsible for food placement. Manufacturers will say the trader, traders will say the manufacturer there is, of course, a distributor, but in that entire chain there must be a responsibility for all of these stakeholders to end up with that final element in that chain, so our producers or consumers would be sure to consume food that would not harm their health, including, of course, bio-ecological products which were also such information where there were also additives that were not correct or were harmful to health. We will also because of these dubious things that we have we will not be for this law but rather be abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96074	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Hrvojo Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96075	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, in fact, another harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This Law on food additives, flavourings and food enzymes lays down the competent authorities, tasks of competent authorities, official controls and methods of handling and reporting competent authorities and the European Commission, as well as the obligations of official laboratories and entities in the business of food for the implementation of EU rules governing the area of food additives, flavourings and food enzymes. That law was nominated in 2018, and in order to implement the measures contained in the National Reform Programmes for 2018. in relation to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy and improving the business environment or implementing measures to unite economic inspections in the newly established State Inspectorate. The proposed law shall refer to certain and appropriate provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of food, feed, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products and amending several EC Regulations, EU Parliament and Council. Through this topic, we discuss the concepts of aromas, food additives, and enzymes. What does that mean? Food flavours give or alter the taste or smell of food, food additives are substances that we add to foods during production, transport, design, processing and storage. They must be marked so that the original product contains the group name and E number of additives. They are divided into dyes, preservatives, antioxidants, acidity regulators, thickeners, stabilisers, emulsifiers, pH regulators, anti-compromising agents, flavour enhancers, antibiotics and additional chemicals. Fears are added to change or replace the natural color of foods. Preservatives prevent the propagation of microorganisms, antioxidants are used to prevent oxidizing processes, emulsifiers are used to stabilise the mixture while stabilisers are used for stable food structures. The thickeners give a certain density, the taste enhancers improve the effects of the aroma, and acidity regulators maintain acidity in order to extend the duration of the food. Although most of these food additives are safe, some can be toxic or even carcinogenic. They are associated with migraines, allergies, asthma, obesity, and behavioural disorders in children. The adverse effect on health is primarily seen in children because the organism of the child is more sensitive and additives can be easier to modulate growth and development processes. Daily intakes in children are often more than permitted precisely because of a lower body mass index because the daily dose is just calculated according to body weight. The use of a food additive is authorised provided that three criteria are met, that is, that the additive should not endanger human health. It must be technologically necessary and must not serve to deceive consumers. The style of life that is imposed in this modern time in which we live pulls away the use of highly processed and semi-certain food. To make such food more attractive, more durable, and tasty, a whole range of additives is used. The most common intake of additives has a negative impact on health because other than being harmful, they have sydregistic activity with other substances that we introduce through the same product and we do not know what happens with certainty when combining different additives in the product. This is why it is going towards strict regulation in the use and consumption of food additives, especially as I have already said threatened children because of the high consumption of industrially processed foods such as candy, snacks, ice cream and refreshing drinks. As much as possible, processed food should be used as much as possible to replace artificial substances with natural colors, such as natural colours instead of artificial colours, of course, and as far as food itself is concerned, to use the current seasonal food. Not everything that is offered to us should be entered into the organism no matter what it looks like, how nice, how colorful, and how much cheaper it is. Food enzymes are defined as proteins obtained by extraction from plants or animals or by fermentation from microorganisms that can catalyze a specific biochemical reaction. They are used for technological purposes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food mainly in the bakery industry for the production of fruit juices, wine, beer as well as for the manufacture of cheese. The European Food Safety Authority shall carry out a regular evaluation of the food enzymes and shall, at the end of the evaluation of all enzymes, establish a list of food enzymes throughout the EC, just as I have already mentioned in the earlier discussion with all the prescribed specifications, but also the conditions of use. The Ministry in the field of food additives, flavouring and food enzymes shall regulate food safety policy, monitor and coordinate legislation and draw up guidelines for inspection control plans or official controls. The State Inspectorate shall adopt and implement inspection plans or official controls on the basis of a risk assessment, which shall necessarily contain monitoring plans, taking into account the Ministry's guidelines. The inspections shall be carried out in accordance with the annual plans drawn up, as well as randomly selected controls, as well as on the application of individual consumers as well as consumer associations, and on the basis of information received through a rapid food alarm system, animal food from any other EU Member State. We are witnessing an increasingly frequent withdrawal of certain products from the shelves. However, the reason is not a weak quality of food, but an increasingly strict regulation for food production and for the sale of food in the EU than it is in the rest of the world, and of course it is the result of a new and increasingly high-quality system of control. The most frequently withdrawn products are due to pesticides and thylenoxide, various allergens, foreign body presence, and bacteria such as salmonella and other illicit substances. This law revises the calls so far for relevant EU rules, given that new regulations have been adopted in the meantime. Furthermore, the proposed law provides for the administrative discharge of economic operators by removing from the applicable law the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and the use of food enzymes in food production, and the entry into the register of enzymes, thereby eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures. More clearly, this law also defines infringements, and the levels of fines are adapted to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. The implementation of this law will not require additional resources from the budget of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the text of the first reading, this text has been completed in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Law and is adapted in a legal and non-technical sense. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Food Adjudications, aromas, food enzymes, as there have been no comments and proposals to be particularly evident in the debate in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96076	And there follows a final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96077	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Food Adjuvants, aromas and Food Enzymes. When we talk about this topic, we know that food is poison and medicine for our organism. A man like all other beings uses food to grow and restore tissue. In modern society, the path from field to table has extended greatly, thus increasing the risk of food losing health care. Use of the additive reduces the risk and keeps the food healthy with its nutritional properties. Food production is a global industry that seeks to increase production and profits. Today processed food products make up the main diet in industrially developed countries. Advantage of such a diet is a large selection of various foods of the known composition and nutritional value, which enables a diet adapted to the needs of the individual. People who feed on industrially processed foods introduce food additives in excess of the acceptable daily amount. Every type of diet that an individual chooses as a style of life has its positive and negative sides with or without additives, but the most important thing is that this food is healthy. The use of additives enables improvement or preservation of the food, extends the time period of use of the food, maintains product consistency, and is preserved and improved both color and aroma. We are aware that food without the appropriate additives loses its appeal, the customer's interest reduces the competitiveness of the product as well as the profit of the manufacturer. When we talk about additives, they are the substances that change the appearance of foods, change the taste, increase the volume of the product, bind the water in the product, allow the introduction of new products, less valuable raw materials, and make it easier and cheaper to produce, store and transport. According to origin, we distinguish natural and synthetic or artificial additives and organically produced food contains additives, but about 300 additives are allowed in conventional food production, and about 30 additives are used in organic food production. It is therefore necessary to give priority to the selection of foods to organically grown foods. When we talk about food enzymes as we have heard they are used for technological purposes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food products and their application has been increased in the bakery industry, fruit juices, wine processing and beer as well as for the production of different types of cheeses. As regards this final draft of the law, it has also been mentioned in earlier discussions that the revised infringement provisions have been more clearly defined as well as the calls for relevant EU regulations so far, given that new regulations have been adopted in the meantime. The level of fines is adjusted to the severity of the offence committed, and when the offences do not have a significant impact on health, consumer interest protection has reduced the amount of fines for legal persons, the responsible persons in the legal person and the natural person of the craftsman. We have already heard in previous statements that, for infringements relating to the indication of mandatory warnings on sweeteners, certain information on additives, aromas and enzymes not intended for end-users, larger fines are prescribed, while for certain elements lower penalties are prescribed. It is also one of the objectives of this law and the administrative dispensation of economic operators in such a way as to remove from the applicable law the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and the needs of food enzymes in food production, as well as the entry into the register of enzymes, thus eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures. In addition, more clearly the provisions are defined, and the levels of fines are adapted to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. Finally, I will stress, as has already been said, that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and that the HDZ Club will support the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-09-0.u96078	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
