ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u102972	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u102973	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, today I will talk about the project set up by this government. The 13th session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was held in Okucani on Wednesday. In 2016, the government of the Republic of Croatia launched the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for greater competitiveness, economic development, creation of new jobs and for the demographic revitalisation of the east of Croatia with more goals at the initiative of 5 Slavonian counties of Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeko-Slavonian and Virovitičko-Podravska. A special political focus has been put on the development of Slavonia, which has been neglected for years. Correction of the deficit in the programming of the European Financial Perspective 2014-2020, correction of NUC 2 regions to increase support for entrepreneurs and a more equal position for Slavonia and the preparation of strategic projects for the revitalisation of Slavonia. Until then, those projects were gone. The 5 counties mentioned in 2012 belonged unfortunately to the same statistical region as the City of Zagreb, which is double. Two times more developed compared to Slavonia, which places these counties at the same level of development, which put them in a particularly unfavourable position because entrepreneurs lost 25% of EU funds. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is at the same time a platform for cooperation of all levels of government because it allows open, continuous and two-way dialogue on the priorities of the population and the economy in these counties, which has prompted the natural negotiation of European projects in the area of all 5 Slavonian counties. More than 20 billion kunas were agreed in the area of 5 Slavonian counties between 18 October 2016 and 30 June 2022. Compared to the data presented during the previous meeting of the Council, it means 12 sessions of 30 September '21. until June 30, '22. An increase of nearly 1.5 billion kunas of contracted funds has been made. Nearly 13 billion kuna was paid from 18 October 2016 to 30 June 2022. Compared to the data during the 12-session council, an increase of €2.53 billion has been made so far. From this, 2.3 billion kuna, Požega-Slavon County, 1.84 billion kuna, Osijek-Baranja County, 7.16 billion kuna, Virovitičko-Podravska 2.46 billion Kuna and Vukovar-Srijem County were agreed in the area of Brod-Posavina County. Out of the total agreed funds of 110 billion kuna from EU funds in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 In the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijeme, 17.7 billion kuna were agreed, and in the same period in the northern Croatian region, 14.1 billion kuna, in the Adriatic Croatia, 31.4 billion kuna, and in the area of the City of Zagreb almost 36 billion kuna. Here I would like to thank all the mayors, the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government, entrepreneurs and civil society for a large number of projects, because if there were not for all these projects, there would be no realisation of these 12.8 billion kuna funds. For the new financial period Slavonia and other areas of the Republic of Croatia await opportunities for the industrial transition of Croatian regions as well as a new extended ITU mechanism in which each county will have a special means available for its urban area. What I would like to point out in particular is that because of the change in the regional support map, Slavonci will now be able to use support for 25 percentage points bigger, so large entrepreneurs will be able to use a 50% grant, a 60% average, and a 70% small one. The European funds change Croatia and change Slavonia, the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem goes on, the next session will be in Virovitica-Podravska County and once again thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103201	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:32 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103202	In today's day, we have reached half the term of office of this assembly. In this sense, apart from the day-to-day debates and topics in which we all actively participate in the sequence of our duties and the problems that interest Croatian citizens, I believe that we owe them something more. Therefore, I will present four initiatives here, in half of my mandate, for which I will present myself as a parliamentary representative, but primarily as a person who is part of the legislative body and whose fundamental task is to propose the legislative changes that need to be addressed in the long term by key problems in the Republic of Croatia, therefore initiatives that I will personally advocate together with the Most Club. The first initiative is to protect the mental health of children in view of the devastating statistics on almost 300% increase in attempted suicides of girls. In this regard, through the Committee on Gender Equality, together with the Committee on the Family, we will propose a document which will be drawn up from experts' initiatives in the field of mental health of children and which will go towards its preservation so that in the future we do not have this devastating statistic that includes increasing self-harm and many other problems, which are unfortunately pushed under the carpet. Secondly, I will propose new amendments after dialogue with the government of the Labour Act, which are going towards strengthening the working position of the woman and its improvement. Third, I will continue to advocate and seek the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that it finally commits itself to the foundation and functioning of the food bank. In fact, we are expected, as is known, to have an extremely challenging autumn. In that autumn, we already have a quarter of the population at the edge of poverty, and this figure is expected to grow. Food banks that have been delayed in Croatia for years, which are a distribution network that enables excess food to reach the end-users who need to finally live in practice. In Croatia they are planned only in 2023, I think it is too late and that we should urgently approach their establishment or their realization otherwise we will indeed have a serious problem with the hunger and poverty that awaits us in the autumn. I will conclude on the legislative initiative that I am referring to today in the Croatian Parliament, which is the proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code, which refers to a whole new concept in Croatian legislation, which is the concept of ecocidality. By introducing this concept into Croatian Penal Code, we would finally manifest our concern for environmental protection in practice and go not only in accordance with world and European trends but also in front of them. You've had a recent case of waste disposal in Istria, over 400 tons that you've polluted in the long run. You're having trouble with the big fires. You had, and it may be in Croatia if nuclear energy will develop compensation that former directors of Fukushima must pay due to indifference and what happened to nuclear energy. You've got climate change on whose doorstep we're on. These are all reasons that Croatia, in particular, whose primary strategic interest is to protect its environment, is to introduce a new concept of ecocid in the Penal Code and recognise the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia as a question of key interest for the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, it is when we talk about the ecocid of the most difficult peaceable crime against the environment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code extend the catalogue of criminal offences to a new incrimination by introducing the most serious crime in Chapter 20. Crimes against the environment called ecocid. The proposed amendments and amendments to the Penal Code will ensure continuity and mutual harmonisation of the goals of the Republic of Croatia and its strategic interests in protecting the environment and giving as effective response to climate change as possible by introducing a provision aimed at protecting the environment as a legal good and thus covering the ecocidation of the country's biosphere, cryospheres, litospheres, hydrospheres, atmospheres as well as the universe. Let's show that our environment comes first. Let's introduce an ecocid into the Penal Code. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103497	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected representative, Davor Dretar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103498	Respect, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, here before the annual vacation one final review of the week. On Monday, we were freshly arrested by the former minister and even the deputy prime minister. There's nothing new under the sky they'd say, but still with the addition that got the attention. The entire family of the entrepreneurs worked hard to help, so they collected no less than a million kunas and borrowed them, and he offered as a guarantee for nearly 3 million kunas from the European wallet. When curious and curious investigators asked where they came from, they could not explain the origin of the same. They claimed that the unfortunate million slept in stockings and chubby mattresses of their family homes. So, dear citizens, perhaps this peace scene and this miracle didn't just shine on this family of humble savings. In a hurry, check your underwear, search the fillings, mattresses, and yorgan mountains, you never know where your luck lies. Changes to the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act have brought interesting debates and surprising news here in the assembly. The newly established political party on the left has decided to support its first move as the HDZ initiative. We have to admit an extremely original way to go out on a political scene. Is there a plan to get into the Constitution and talk about medical termination of pregnancy, I don't know or want to assess, but as far as we can see the argument of the President of the Croatian Parliament about it while ruling is not currently ready. Wednesday ended with announcements of a new European prosecutor's activity in Varazdin. On the table is a blackout of as much as 262 million kuna for a wastewater purifier. In the arrested three, we have members of several political options. This just means that Croatian politics are well managed in the murky waters by those who were in power and those who were presently. And for the Office of the European Public Prosecutor in Croatia, with full justification, I seek the nickname of a true purifier. Yesterday we called the foreign minister here to explain why he shouldn't be removed. Mr. Prime Minister came by. The work of the assembly at points related to the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO has been immediately suspended and has moved to a pleasant discussion on the problems of Croatian foreign policy. Soon, however, it turned out that there is no problem as there is, of course, no systemic corruption, no guessing, no competitions or nepotism in every part of Croatian society. Just an irresponsible opposition to harassing the minister who explained that it could be in the Netherlands and Romania instead of dealing with some political amateurs here who want to replace it. I have a list of everyone who signed the initiative for my shift, Brrr. The prime minister suggested that drone shooters could be the cameramen of a parliamentary MP. So I'm asking all of you, is that a target drawing on your forehead? Is it radicalizing the public, a notion that the prime minister used without a problem to speak about members of the Homeland Movement, because if not, then I don't know what it is. Let me get out of politics for a minute, thank a group of people we all have to bow down to. Although the state did not provide them with adequate working conditions, the system of maintenance of fire-fighting aircraft is in complete decay, the fires on the Croatian coast are still halted, localised or completely extinguished thanks to the inhuman efforts of only one group, Croatian firefighters. I thank each of them individually on behalf of all Croatian citizens, each of them, professional or voluntary firefighters and their colleagues, with sincere admiration and with my heart I wish them safe work and as little work as possible. For the end, good summer to you. I hope that, at the moment of the two-month anesthesia of the Croatian Parliament, you have sweeter concerns. I hope your children have finished your grade with an average of 5.0, that they have all enrolled schools and colleges they wanted, that they will have a safe and well-paid job in Croatia, that they will make progress on this job because of their ability, not because of the possession of a party card, that we will have more children, and that there will be fewer young people abroad. That the capital would stop being a cantograd, that the railroads would drive faster than my neighbor Martin's bike and for the end, that Hajduk would become a champion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103532	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDSS, and the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103533	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I would take the opportunity to praise and thank firemen who put out fires all over the Adriatic coast with the hope that the rest of the fire season will be less dramatic than it has been in the last days. Before the summer break, I have to reopen a subject I've already spoken of, although it's amazing that we have to talk about it in 2022, but here I have to. So, about two months ago, I was talking about the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, which was often the subject of one of our colleagues as a subject of spit, and then I stressed in these performances that its existence is denied, that it is declared hostile to its action, that the contract with the government is being disputed, even though the contract is identical with the government's contracts with other religious communities. I pointed out that, on the contrary, the non-existent Croatian Orthodox Church is constantly calling, and one of the several self-proclaimed archbishops of the non-existent church because there are more who claim to be archbishops a few days ago held some kind of ritual for pok. Germogena, the head of the church founded by Ante Pavelic, and at that time at the improvized ceremony 10 days ago, the unquestionable statehood of the NDH, which was established by an independent Croatian Orthodox Church, which, as pointed out, expressed its prayer for state leader Anta, was particularly highlighted as something worth mentioning and highlighted. On this occasion, it is further said that this church and its leadership have established peace and prosperity, love and justice, Orthodoxism in Croatia. It was said on May 6, '45. Mytropolite then Germogen solemnly entrenched for the patriarchs. It has been said that as absurd as that may be, someone appointed as the patriarch of the fictional church on May 6, '45. Finally, that peak and the clergy of that church were judged and executed in the name of faith as martyrs. Not a word of crimes against Orthodox lives, camps, racial laws, the fact that a large number of priests and bishops of the Serbian Orthodox Church were killed and the others were expelled. On these grounds, Germogen and Pavelic built a church whose tradition is now being called upon by those who have held this ceremony, and they would now be able to rebuild the church, which was founded by the unilateral decision of Ante Pavelic at the time of the worst crimes against the Serbian Orthodox population and do not hide it, however, openly speak of it and call for it as something best and most sacred as a good foundation and a recommendation for the future. It's amazing how scary that is, but at least it's honest. The Croatian Orthodox Church in the past existed only during the NDH and was not created by the will of the Orthodox population but by the will of the Ustasha regime. We can conclude that it is a provocation without any sincere religious basis. Hostile not only towards the Serbian Orthodox Church or the Serb national minority in Croatia, but also towards the Republic of Croatia. The intentions and requirements for the restoration of the church today are opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the applicable positive regulations and the values of modern Europe and the EU as a community. Although this is a marginal initiative, an extremely extreme right group of people who do not have any public support, I consider it necessary to warn of such initiatives, show them in real light so that they do not cheat and receive support from an institution or a political group that has weight and relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103534	My colleague Dretar, he's done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103535	Thank you, Chairman. Very precise, Art. 238, supply of incorrect or incomplete data. The respected representative Milosevic, the Croatian Orthodox Church, called the non-existent church, which is why I raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Croatian Orthodox Church exists and each of us can visit it on Domjanic Street in Zagreb, so it is a pure violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Milosevic, yesterday we heard that we do not have reciprocity in Serbia, so perhaps you are better off, instead of excavating graves again, to go to Belgrade and make sure that Croats and Serbs have equal rights as Serbs in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103536	Thank you. Well, putting out precise or incorrect allegations isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I can't and can't judge whether anyone's speaking correctly or incorrectly. If that were the role of the chairman, I'm afraid there'll be a lot of things. Therefore, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I must give you a warning. My fellow Milosevic, are you sure you want an injury? You're giving up. Fine. Thank you very much. That's good. Now, we're going to have a break by 12:00 because we announced yesterday and today that at 12 o'clock there's going to be a vote, so we have a break by 12 o'clock. Thank you. It's 11:00.04. On behalf of the SDP representative club, Honored representative Siniša Hajdaš Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103604	Thank you. Too bad Arsen Bauk wasn't, I'd give you a round of applause. But let's get back to these more serious topics, so to speak. Land-based saturations, therefore global warming, naturally raises a certain level of responsibility in all normal countries, and also a level of system. Especially in countries which through GDP are explicitly or dominantly exposed to tourism as... economic activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not just talking about Croatia here, I'm talking about Portugal, Spain, Greece. What's going on in Croatia? It happens that there's another one, I'll say, a state-owned company that should remain state-run, run or run by a restructuring centre, and it's called the ZTC, which, by the way, cannot serve the Canadians and Air Tractors, to be perfectly accurate. Why can't he serve them? The Department of Defense, be careful, it declares it classified. I'll stop there. And he can't serve them because there's no spare parts, the mechanics went to work abroad, and, behold, the director went on vacation. So I'm talking absolutely facts. And then what happens? The commander in that chain, the defence minister, instead of speeding up because you can assume what's going to happen and because of the bad hydrological situation, so there wasn't rain, you see what the problem is, I'm going to connect it with electricity, so we're doing very little using hydropotentials now because there was no rain, and what does it tell you then if you're even normal? This tells you that you will have an increased risk of fires in the maritima area. And what does Banozic do? I don't know if you've figured it out or if you've missed it. He's looking at how to depose the president of the state. Is that a priority? Or continues, to put it this way, the conflict between whom, because Banozic doesn't decide on it himself, decides the second Petlovo Brdo, Andrej Plenkovic, so instead of dealing with key policy, which is how to provide material, technical and human conditions for the season of defense against fire, he deals with nonsense, means how to throw it lightly, to whom? Milanovic? So wait, what's normal for you all? Or he was supposed to organize spare parts, human resources, so to welcome the season ready with the maximum number of Canadians and Air Tractors, 12, 14, we stayed at what, 5 or 6. 4, but maybe 5, because 2, 2 are these, 2 are like something like now they're going to be ready, and I say, and never, ever, ever worse conditions, never worse conditions, and what are we left at? On public fire departments and DVDs. Again, the question is whether they are adequately paid, especially those who come from the continent to, I'll say, the season, under quotes, that no one gets me wrong, on the Adriatic, how many people do they even get? And you know, you know what's going on? Yeah, for that amount, and I'm not going to say how public it is, about four thousand kunas, something more, that for that amount you can't even find DVDs more from the continent that go to the Adriatic, you know why? Because they find themselves in summer months better wages or better wages or better personal income and then your system is like that and then we're surprised and only thanks to mere happiness or higher power, so we don't have human casualties, but who's calculating material damage? How far will that actually reverse that whole neighborhood? Now Sibenik, tomorrow, God ask you which one. For what? Because of the ineffectiveness, inorganization and incompetence of the minister. That's your reason. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103673	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u103674	Good afternoon, everyone. Here, we have finally received an answer from the Government for our proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act. So the Workers' Front has submitted a comprehensive proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Law, as many as 50 amendments, to which we have now received the answer, we have submitted these proposals on June 3rd. The ministry very superficially and even belittledly responded, of course, negatively to our proposal. The proposal was drawn up by an entire team of independent trade unions, combat smaller unions, associations and parties interested in labour issues. The backbone of our proposal, for example, was to cut the deadline for a contract to a certain time for just one year, ban the night labor of pregnant women, cut the working week from 40 to 35 hours and a series of other changes that would be towards the protection of work, but also towards encouraging the economy. In this completely demeaning response, we have received false accusations that we are against the economy and economic development of Croatia, we have received unfavorable justifications that the Ministry is actually not currently making any proposals that would benefit the work. For what? Because they are in teatno meaning because of the two directives they have to implement, which is why they are now starting with some necessary changes to the ZOR, and only later will they agree on some more serious changes and we have a reason to actually have nothing to deal with in this process because they have all responded with their social partners. I therefore call on the social partners with whom they are talking to to take a good look at our proposal and to engage in this debate that is working. Many trade unions that discuss these negotiations should consider what it is to say, in the UK, laborers work together with the unions and that we have this view of union representatives to co-operate with parliamentary parties, but this is completely wrong, so I warn them to inform themselves and to read our request and to include those arguments in these tripartite arrangements. Again and again, it means in its response the government is grasping what is easiest for them, which is to criticise the 2014 Labour Act, which is SDP's and responds that they have now brought amazing better indicators. With what? So with the increase in employment and the drop in unemployment, it's a classic manipulative argument that completely denies the fact that this government was in the period of recession, that this government during a period of mild conjuncture, especially before the crown, and that these data have absolutely nothing to do with this government, I say that artificial intelligence at the head of the government would probably be better indicators, and these indicators are terribly poor compared to other countries with which we are comparable and at the height of pay and altitude, employment rates that we have one of the lowest in Europe and by all other indicators, that I'm not talking about a minimum wage that is criminally low. Here they repeat what they have repeated and in the draft itself means e- Consultations that preceded this ZOR which, just a few days ago, we have all had the opportunity to get, which our initiative for the working ZOR will analyze and come out with its response in detail, means on this proposal that has just been put into e- Consultation, two days ago, but again the same arguments are being repeated here in our response, in response to us that their goal, means that the government's policy is working, encouraging entrepreneurship, that in the first place, be careful, not to protect the work and workers, but to encourage entrepreneurship, then more just, come on, working conditions, somehow have to say it, but be careful what the third thing is, democratic revitalization. So the ZOR serves demographic revitalization through remote work. So we will pay particular attention to this, given that they have made criminal proposals in this particular segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u106257	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:06 AM]] We'll go with the vote as announced today. First, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Drazen Barisic and the suspension of the office of deputy representative Mate Čička, the debate has been concluded and I am voting on the decision to suspend the term of office of representative Drazen Barisic and to suspend the behaviour of deputy representative Mate Čička. Please, let's vote. 116 MPs and MPs voted, 114 were against and 2 were against, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And we are going to the final point of voting The election, appointment and resolution is proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I suggest if you agree to hold a united vote on all three proposed decisions. Are we in agreement? Thank you very much. Then I am voting on the proposal for three decisions as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 109 votes, therefore, have been unanimously made all decisions as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the 11th session of HS. Thank you all for your active participation in the debates. I wish you all every good, full health, and let's see each other in accordance with the deadlines. Thank you very much. SESSEL LOCKED AT 13:32 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114499	We are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 214, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Ruzica Vukovac, representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, Legislative Committee, representative Davor Dretar, representative Darko Klasic, representative of Željko Lenart, representative of Erik Fabianić, representative of Dalia Oresković, Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, Club of Green-Left Blocks, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of Representatives of Mosta, representative Selak Rasudić and representative Katarina Peović. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments, the esteemed Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Interior, first of all Amendment No. 1 Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114500	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept amendments to SDP's Club of Representatives. In fact, most of the personal electric means of transport that are on the market have the power of an electric motor up to 0.6 kW and thus does not enter the category of personal means of transport, as defined by the amendment and addition of this Act. Other electric motor power vehicles of this category, other than 0,6 which do not belong to that category, shall be registered in order to participate in road transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114501	On behalf of the club, respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114502	Thank you very much. We ask that an amendment be made to the vote because electric motors have a great power of electric motors because the gyroscopic of that motorcycle requires a great power of the electric motor to maintain a balance, so let's say those who develop a speed of 25km/h should have power between 1 and 2 kW, all of this results in the mandatory type-approval of personal means of transport that have more than 0.6 kW. From the point of view of type-approval in the Republic of Croatia, the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia is responsible and currently has three European acts governing vehicle type-approval, means motor vehicles and connected vehicles, motor vehicles on two or three wheels and four cycles, as well as agricultural and forestry tractors. We believe that this limitation of the power of the electric motor should be lifted since the said item is unsustainable and the law should be adopted in the long term. It is enough to mention this 25km/h limit as has been brought by EU countries that legally have legally positioned small electric vehicles in their basic laws. At the end of the line, if we want the traffic to be dispersed with internal combustion vehicles and closer to these less harmful vehicles, we think we should accept this amendment that we have listed, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114503	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment No. 2. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114504	Amendment No. 2. is not accepted. Namely, here, this amendment goes to extend the power of JLS when it comes to traffic and traffic in a standstill, but units of local and regional self-government already have the power to carry out tasks of supervision of improperly stopped and parked vehicles of traffic management, and to relocate illegally stopped and parked vehicles with the prior consent of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we are of the opinion that, with other days of authority from art. 5. This law can in a quality and effective way regulate traffic in its area, so we do not think there are now reasons for extending their powers at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114505	There are no representatives of the Green-Left bloc, so we're going to have to vote on this. 3. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114506	The government does not accept this amendment. Namely, the proposed maximum speed of the personal means of transport is 25km/h, and the driver of the personal means of transport is required to adapt the speed of movement of the vehicle to the characteristics and condition of the road or other surface to which the vehicle is moving, and visibility, transparency, atmospheric opportunities, vehicle and load conditions, so that the vehicle can be stopped in a timely manner before any obstacle which it can foresee, or that it can act in a timely manner, on a traffic or sign. In this way, responsibility for the safe management of these vehicles has been transferred to the driver, and there is no need to prescribe speed numerically, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114507	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative of Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, the idea is that the speed of movement of personal means of transport per area intended for pedestrian movement is maximum 10 km/h, and the proposed solution defines more precisely the transport of personal means of transport and is in line with comparative legal solutions and examples of good practice in some EU Member States. And in fact, the point of this amendment is that we could later allow not to wear a head helmet for those who traffic in those areas and up to 10 km/h to popularise these means of transport, these are mostly electric energy-saving vehicles, reducing CO2 and that was a complete idea, but since you do not accept not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114509	So you're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114510	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114511	Thank you. 4th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114512	The Government does not accept Amendment No. 4.. We believe that everything is currently precisely normised, the movement of cyclists which is closer to the right does not involve cycling management, jeopardising the safety and safety of other traffic participants if there is a certain obstacle along the edge of the wheel, and therefore there is no need to further standardise the provision. In addition, the proposed provisions better regulate the transport of bicycle drivers and personal means of transport when moving along the bike lane or track and crossing the stake, here is thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114513	There's no one from the counsel club, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 5th Amendment of the Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114514	Amendment 5 is not accepted because of the technical characteristics of the personal means of transport, there is a smaller diameter of the wheel, the absence of a seat so-called higher driver's weight as it drives even less steering and thus an increased danger to the driver regardless of the surface of the movement, the mandatory wearing of a safety helmet for all drivers is introduced. We believe that this will contribute to the safety of them and other road users, therefore it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114515	On behalf of the club, on behalf of the club, respected representative Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114516	Thank you very much. Since the previous amendment was not accepted, it would reduce the speed to 10 km in pedestrian zones, and then this amendment doesn't make any sense, so we're pulling it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114517	6th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114518	The amendment is not accepted. The introduction of the term "wagoner" and the preservation of the tradition and cultural heritage of suitable and other types of riding that are practiced in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, as well as riding for tourist purposes, have led to the need for the regulation and participation of riders who, individually or in the group, are taking part in road transport. What the representative mentioned was riding for the therapeutic purposes of younger people, therefore under 14 years of age, does not involve self-driving since it is carried out with the escort of a therapist, so this is for medical purposes and this is not the riding prescribed by law, therefore the amendment does not accept the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114519	The Honorable Agent Lenart is gone, so we'll have to vote on that. 7th Amendment of the Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114520	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed provisions require all doctors to warn the driver about the temporary incompetence of driving and to record a warning in medical documentation while the handling of the pharmacist is prescribed by special regulations, so we believe that this obligation should be on doctors rather than on pharmacists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114521	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114522	Thank you very much. And I think now that the extra amendment is ours because of this government intervention she's done with her amendments, so I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114523	8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114524	Amendment number 8. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Therefore, it is not accepted because the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit its own amendments, i.e. a concrete amendment to this article of the law to which these issues will be regulated in accordance with the agreement of the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Chamber Doctors and the coordination of family medicine doctors who agreed the best solution for this issue at the joint meeting and therefore this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114525	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114526	We ask that this amendment be voted upon. And I'm just going to say for a little while, that you did submit your amendment and all the good news that you did and that you finally listened to what we in the opposition told you and all the medical or patient associations. But I have to say that what we've been through is practically the same thing that you've brought into yours, so you've de facto accepted ours, but I don't know from spite because it's opposition, so you said you didn't accept it. So exactly what we're looking for here in the paperwork and beyond that point, that's exactly what you wrote in yours, but I'm saying it's fortunate that you've come to your senses and that you won't be doing any harm that we've been warning you about all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114527	But you're still looking for a vote, aren't you? Yeah, okay. 9th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114528	Amendment number, amendment of the representatives of the Most shall not be accepted. Not to repeat from the same explanation because the government of the Republic of Croatia prides its own amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114529	There's no one from the Most Representatives' Club, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 10th Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114530	The Government does not accept this amendment for the same reasons as the previous one, since it submits its amendment to that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114531	There is no representative Selak Rasdic, so we will have to vote on this amendment. 11th Amendment of Representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114532	Renate Sablar Dračevac's amendment is not accepted. Here's to not repeating for the same reasons because the government is submitting its amendment to the article in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114533	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114534	I thank you for having submitted the amendment, and I am very happy with this breakup. I think it is for the benefit of the complete and relationship between the MUP and the doctor, but certainly for the benefit of the medical profession that it can normally and properly and adequately do its job. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114535	Thank you. 12th Amendment of Representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114536	This amendment applies therefore to the same article, the government does not accept it, and with the same explanation because it submits its amendment to Article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114537	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114538	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am withdrawing this amendment, I am glad that it has come to an agreement with the medical profession, and then my amendment is actually losing its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114539	Thank you. 13th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114540	This amendment is not accepted. The same interpretation as for the previous amendments because the government submits its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114541	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114542	Thank you. I will insist on voting on this amendment for the same reason as my colleague Maric, I don't really know where those good old times went when you accepted amendments in changed form. I am pleased that because of the hasty debate and the loud debate in the assembly, the government has decided to submit its amendments, but there is no excuse not to actually accept our amendments at least means in a changed form, so I will ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114543	14th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114544	The 14th amendment is not accepted. Those proposals have already been elaborated in the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act and this amendment, in amendment 1 to Article 37 for doctors, and in amendment 3 to Article 50 to, therefore, this amendment is not accepted for drivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114545	Representatives of Dalia Oreshkovic are gone, so we will have to vote on this. 15th Amendment of MP Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114546	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons because the government is handling this matter with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114547	The MPs of Rose Vukovac are gone, so we're going to have to vote on this. The 16th Amendment of Agent Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114548	The amendment is not accepted because the government of the Republic of Croatia is submitting its amendment to regulate this issue in accordance with the agreement between the government and the doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114549	Agent Davor Dretar's gone, so we're gonna have to vote on it. 17th Amendment of Representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114550	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114551	Representative Fabianic is gone, so we'll have to vote on this. 18th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114552	This amendment shall not be accepted by reason of the same as for the preceding articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114553	There's no one from the Green-Left Block Club, so we're gonna have to vote on this. 19th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114554	This amendment is also not accepted since the driver decides on his own in this proposal of the MOST Representatives Club to carry out a health examination due to the said and temporary inability to drive. Then he pays the medical check-up fee himself, so he pays the driver, not the police administration, or becomes the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114555	There's no one from the Most Representatives' Club, so we're gonna have to vote on it. 20th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114556	Since this is the same amendment he also does not accept with the explanation I gave for 19, Amendment number 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114557	Representative Selak Rasdic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. 21st Amendment of Representative Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114558	This amendment is also not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous two amendments 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114559	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114560	Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with this because I believe that the costs, so if it is determined that the driver is capable of driving should be borne by the MUP and asked to be on the amendment of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114561	The 22nd amendment, the HNS, HSU and independent representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114562	This amendment is not accepted in this form because this issue will be governed by the amendments and amendments to the Regulation on the health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers to be made by the Minister of Health within a year, behold, the day from the entry into force of this Act. This issue is proposed by the Government to regulate one of its amendments, so essentially the same,.../incomprehensible/... the same question is regulated, so it cannot accept this amendment in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114563	Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114564	Thank you very much. I accept your full explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114565	23rd Amendment of Representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114566	This amendment, which is in nature, relates to the same problem as the previous amendment, so the government does not accept it, so with the explanation I gave for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114567	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114568	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think this amendment would make the law more life-threatening and faster, because some legal frameworks are being put in place, so I ask that this amendment be put to the vote in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114569	And the 24th Amendment, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114570	This amendment is not accepted either, however, this issue is regulated by the Government by its amendment, because other amendments change the no-technical reference to certain articles, so it will be accepted as a substance, but this amendment by the Committee on Law cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114571	On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, the Honorable Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114572	Thank you very much, Vice President. Given this explanation and since you have covered what we have proposed with your amendment, we are withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114573	Thank you very much. We will now say that the Social Democrats' Club has proposed the following conclusion: 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, P.Z.E. No. 214 is referred to in the third reading.; 2. It is up to the applicant to consider any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate in order to draw up a final draft of the law. I would ask the applicant's representative to be informed of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114574	The conclusion is not accepted, the conclusion of the Social Democrats' Club because the government is submitting its own amendments, we believe that with these amendments we have covered all the recommendations in the past, we have resolved all the issues in question, and because of a number of important issues that this whole law with its 50 articles regulates, we believe it is necessary for it to come into force as soon as possible, so the conclusion that it is a day, here it cannot be accepted and the Government does not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114575	On behalf of the MPs' club, the respected representative Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114576	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you haven't solved all the problems with your amendments, but most of them are and most of them are. So, I agree with you that it is important that the Romobile law is passed as quickly as possible, we have a tourist season and a period when it will certainly be used very much and that is why I withdraw the proposal for a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114577	So the conclusion is withdrawn, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114578	We are now going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 214. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments on the basis of Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments tabled here must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present, so I am voting on the proposal that the Government may submit amendments after the debate has been concluded. Please, let's vote. 105 were votes, 103 for and 2 abstentions. So, the government can submit amendments after the debate is concluded, so I would like to ask Prime Minister Zarko Katic to explain the amendments submitted. After that comes a debate where only clubs can participate. Here you go. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114579	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment number one reads.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114580	You can do this. You have all eight minutes, explain all four amendments, and then we'll open the debate. Explain them, that's right. [[Intruder Katic: It means I don't read them.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114581	The first amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is therefore proposed to amend Article 233. The Act on Road Safety in full in order to make the matter laid down in this Article more clearly systematised. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Law have only been amended to comply with the applicable Law on residence and residence of citizens, the Law on Foreigners and the License Directive. In paragraphs 3 and 5, it is specified that the health status of the driver in the medical examination is determined in accordance with the Regulation on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers brought by the minister responsible for health care. The provisions of Article 4 shall be read as to how to provide information to the police administration or health care station for which the driver is no longer able to manage the vehicle safely, i.e. on the health condition referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. This procedure is now prescribed in Article 10. The rules on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers. Paragraphs 5 and 6 are the paper in relation to the applicable Article 233. Road safety laws and prescribe the treatment of a doctor when the medical examination or during treatment determines a health condition for which the driver is no longer able to manage the vehicle, but temporarily for a maximum period of six months. In this case, the doctor who has performed the examination or treated the driver and the chosen doctor is obliged to warn about it. President: Well signal it in a decent way, do not start immediately... [[Intruder President: Please colleagues and colleagues please. Wait a minute. What's the matter?]] [[Bukarica raider: He put it wrong.]] Let's change and please be careful with that, because you can see that it's causing a lot of laughter, and you can continue with the Secretary of State.... Thank you very much. So, this chosen doctor is obliged to warn the driver about it, and the given warning is recorded in medical documentation. The driver is not required to perform a medical check-up after the expiry of the established temporary inability to drive, so after this temporary one. Articles 7 and 8 shall provide for the criminal liability of legal persons, natural persons, such as doctors, and persons responsible in legal persons for acts contrary to the provisions of this Article. As regards Article 2, Amendments two, I apologize to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 47. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which adds a new point 7 in Article 285(1) to the amendments of the first Government of the Republic of Croatia to which the notice of temporary incompetence is entered only in medical documentation, means medical documentation but without the notification of the police. As regards the amendment of the Third Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 50 shall apply. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which shall be adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Amendment 289.1 is amended in accordance with the proposed solution set out in Amendment 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to which the warning of temporary incompetence is entered only in medical documentation and without informing the police. Finally, Amendment 4 provides that the provisions governing the temporary incompetence of the driver for the safety of the vehicle and the handling of the physician will not take effect until the amendments to the Regulation on the health checks on drivers or candidates for drivers authorised to bring into force. Since the completion of this final bill, there have been meetings of relevant governmental resolutions with doctors' associations, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the coordination of family medicine, which I thank for understanding on behalf of the government, and we believe that we have achieved a satisfactory consensus so that these provisions come into force and that all 2 million 271 thousand and 20 drivers in the Republic can drive on their conscience, listen to the doctor when he tells them that he is unable to drive and that we can achieve as little as possible, that there are fewer victims on our roads. At this point, it's 26 people less than last year, but I believe that this number will be by adopting these changes and adding even smaller. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114582	Thank you, Secretary of State, you can return to your post. I will open the debate, so far there have been three clubs, the first SDP representative club is a respected colleague, Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114583	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act that we discussed in the first and second reading were meant to bring about changes that dramatically affect doctors of family medicine on the full medical profession, the relationship between doctors and patients, the health of citizens who would potentially avoid going to a doctor, secreting their symptoms and medicines they take.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114584	My colleague Maric, I apologize only a little that, colleagues and colleagues please, the debate continues, who wants to go outside to do it quietly discreetly, there is too much noise and unfocus the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114585	Thus, this would undermine the relationship of trust between a doctor and a patient, affect the health of citizens who would potentially avoid going to a doctor because of this law, conceal their symptoms and medicines that they take on all groups of professional drivers and persons who drive motor vehicles. The proposals for the profession on e- Consultation are not respected as well as at the the thematic session of the Health Committee, and the profession was not even included in the drafting of these legislative proposals. It is that doctors should not only warn the patient not to drive but also immediately report to CEZIH for any temporary change in the patient’s medical condition for up to six months, and the patient would temporarily lose his driver’s license. Unless the patient is reported by doctors, he or she is subject to possible criminal and criminal responsibility. The proposed amendments to the Road Safety Act would not solve road safety, and the immeasurable damage would be done to the health and health of our citizens. The biggest cause of road accidents is too fast, mobile and alcohol, and therefore you need to work on prevention. Of course it is necessary to warn the patient of his medical condition and the medicines he is taking, to write in his medical records, to know his responsibility, and we wrote that in our SDP Club amendment. Our duty is not to rat out patients, but to warn a patient with whom medicines and conditions must avoid driving, and the patient should observe this primarily for his or her own safety, but also other people's safety and should not be punished for other people's mistakes. And we are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior have finally come to their senses, listened to numerous appeals from medical associations, patient associations, Croatian medical chambers and us from the opposition and submitted our amendments that we will support. Therefore, if these amendments are voted on, we will withdraw our SDP amendment under number 8 as what we propose to the amendment is essentially covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I note that there must be a clearly defined regulation defining the list of diseases, conditions, doses and durations of medicines that are not yet available, a rule on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers who would define this will be carried out within 12 months at the latest and we hope that the profession will really be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114586	Thank you. The second club of representatives is HSLS and Reformists, respected counterpart Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114587	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. I hope that, after the adoption of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, it will certainly lead to a reduction of almost daily black statistics on Croatian roads as well as an increase in general traffic safety. With these amendments, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a major step towards better regulation of the role of health workers in the application of the laws which were the reason for my doubts as to whether the issue in the proposed law was best resolved. That is why I have tabled certain amendments to better address certain open issues. A particular part of the law governing the temporary incompetence of the driver, given that this proposal has completely transferred responsibility for the management of the vehicle during the period of incompetence to doctors rather than to drivers themselves, as is the case in the driving of the alcoholised condition. I am extremely pleased that the government has reached an agreement with the medical profession or the Medical Chamber and associations about the role of the doctor in the context of this law. The dialogue has no alternative and once again it has been shown that a solution can be reached through constructive dialogue. I hope that by adopting a regulation on health checks on drivers and candidates it will be.../incomprehensible/... decidently regulated in order to avoid any doubt or ambiguity regarding the application of this Act. I also believe that the health status of persons who operate motor vehicles would be more effectively monitored for the purpose of prevention and introduction of mandatory medical examinations every maybe 10 years because it is certain that health conditions are not the same in 18-year-olds when they are examined for obtaining a driver’s license in 60-year-olds and over several years, not to mention that some may become dependent on substances that may affect the safety of the vehicle management, as well as the high likelihood that other significant health disorders of the driver may occur, which is an important factor in the safety of motor vehicle management. The problem of the existing road safety legislation was not only lack of regulation, but also often inconsistencies and I hope that it will change after the proposed amendments to the Road Safety Act and that it will be applied zealously and consistently. The best guarantee on road safety is the increased presence of traffic police officers on a daily basis, i.e. on the road, and the legislation on traffic security needs to be taken to the greatest extent possible, while it needs to be implemented by the Ministry of Interior in order to finally achieve a historic transition to better and reduce black statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114588	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114589	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues. To translate an old English saying, if it looks like a duck, if it walks like a duck, if it's voiced like a duck, it's probably a duck. These amendments we're discussing here are one amazing duck because, at least by my assessment, they take responsibility from the doctor's office, not to say, the lobby, I'm going to tell the Corps in Croatia who got scared of the insurance corps in Croatia. And who's gonna get the lamp eventually? Croatian drivers and Croatian drivers. Because the way I see these amendments, let me get out of them what I've highlighted. If the medical examination or what is very important, during the course of treatment an extremely wide range, according to a rule that we do not yet know what it looks like or what it will look like, determines a health condition for which the driver is no longer able to manage the vehicle safely, we cannot know what the condition is because it is written in the Regulation. We don't know anything about the rule book. Now, if that's true, then the doctor who determines the health condition for which the driver is no longer able to operate the vehicle is obliged to warn the driver. How do you do that? Take him out for coffee? To take him out for pizza or just tell him, you should not drive and record this warning in medical records, therefore, in the patient’s medical or medical records. So what happened here now? The doctor warned you, the doctor warned you, no, absolutely not, because the third amendment says, if the driver has been given a health warning by the doctor for whom he is temporarily unable to manage the vehicle's score, he must not drive a vehicle on the road for the time being. So you were denied your driver's license, that's the duck I'm talking about. These are all amendments that are very sweet, but in the end, dear drivers and drivers, if your doctor tells you not to drive, you've been deprived of your driver's license. And then you go on the road, you sit in a vehicle in front of the health care home, and you're gonna have somebody pull you out from behind, and with minimal damage, you don't give God any major damage or injury, you're gonna come into the insurance office and say, the guy stuck me in the back, they're gonna say, let's see the papers, eh, so you in the medical file have that you're not shifted. Ma'am, sir, there's no compensation. There is no responsibility of the insurance company for the damage done to your vehicle, whether materially or not give God injury to you or any of the passengers in your vehicle. I'm sorry, I read these amendments just like that. A driver who, to repeat, has been given a health warning by a doctor for whom the driver is temporarily unable to drive a vehicle safely, must not drive a vehicle on the road for the time being, so are we crazy? Is that taking away a driver's license or not? Let me know. Is that a duck or not? Is that a chicken? What's that, a goat? You just can't drive, but otherwise you have a driver's license, you just can't go on the road. So with your driver's license, you can go to the park without a problem, but by means of public transportation or bicycle. With your driver's license you can go to the sea without a problem, but Croatian railways, for example, assuming, of course, that you have enough time. And we as agents can't hope that the rulebook will be good. A rule that regulates something this serious, what are the conditions that will make a family doctor tell a driver or driver not to drive? We have absolutely no knowledge here, whether it is an existing rule or, in the meantime, in the ministry, completely out of the sight of people who need to decide on it, and these are MPs and parliamentary deputies, they will adopt some new rule that will include a person who is taking pharmacotherapy due to psychological or psychiatric disorders, which is covered by these legal provisions. So the Croatian defender who is taking treatment against PTSD will come to his doctor and he will tell him, you must not drive. Yeah, what now, wait then, do I have a driver's license or don't I? No, no, no, you have a driver's license, you just can't drive. Well, who can explain that to me, I'm taking him out for pizza. I guess, before they take away my driver's license.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114590	Better a beer than a pizza. Now it's the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and Honorable counterpart Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114591	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. I, unlike my colleague Dretar, am quite pleased with this amendment. This amendment really solves the problem and everything that we have pointed to, and therefore, of course, today when we were processing the amendments, we withdrew the amendments, except for one. I didn't withdraw an amendment that's about who's gonna bear the costs. I don't think it's correct for a patient who's being evaluated for the health condition of a second-degree body to be costing himself if the second-degree body assesses that he can drive a car. So far, this has been borne by the costs of the State or the Ministry of Interior. I continue to think and ask my fellow MPs to vote in favour of this amendment that it is necessary for the state to carry it anyway if an injustice has been done to the patient. I would also point out once again that on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we have reached a conclusion in which we have proposed the third reading of this law by seeking a Solomonian solution because we have found ourselves in one split between understanding and the MUP could not possibly understand what we are rebelling about, which is why we are rebelling and have not seen our problems, problems and doctors and patients, or all the citizens of the Republic. I'm glad that's settled, so the Social Democrats pulled out their third reading amendment. We feel that it is important for this law to be passed because it solves other issues, for example Romobile issues that must be regulated by law and therefore the Social Democrats Club will also support this amendment of the government, but also the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114592	Okay. We're going to the Green-Left Blocks Club now, dear colleague Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114593	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs, chairman, secretary. So, first of all, I want to point out that you didn't bring this amendment because you wanted to fix things rather than because you were forced by the associations to bring it in because the doctors started to envelope your resignations because it was such a crazy suggestion that doctors started to envelope your cancellations, so you had to do it. Secondly, what I think is important for the highlighted, we will support the amendment, but the proposal will not be supported because because we had to discuss all the time not to turn doctors into cops has not spoken loudly enough about what these changes and supplement mean for other forms of traffic that are not strictly motor vehicles. So these changes in the laws relating to regulation of cycling traffic were supposed to go in the direction of increasing the safety of cyclists and stimulating cycling traffic, and they are doing everything exactly the opposite. And the associations gave you their suggestions, and you threw them all away. So, what you've done is you've done everything to keep the cyclists safe and to transfer all responsibility for possible traffic violations and injuries to the cyclists. So this law literally says that when a cyclist rides a green wave and has the advantage of crossing a cross street if a car that turns left picks him up so that he can say that the cyclist is guilty because he has not carefully crossed the road over which he has the advantage. So there is no longer a situation after this is adopted in which it can be said that the responsible motor vehicle driver in any situation can be said that the cyclist was not careful enough. Secondly, you also continue to prescribe ways of behaviour of cyclists in situations where there is no adequate infrastructure and thus legalise situations that should not happen. So, if we have a bike path that stops and does not cross the pedestrian crossing, instead of legalizing it, you say that because a cyclist is not marked by a bike path across a pedestrian crossing, he must turn into pedestrians as well as all those guys who use a bike or some auxiliary means of tricycles, those who drive on their hands etc. So people who need it for their movements who don't even choose it as a choice and you put them in that situation as well. And that's what they told you about, so it's crazy. All changes and additions go in the direction of reducing rights and security and further discrimination of cyclists who already exist which can only destimulate citizens to use bicycles. And that's what we're talking about in a situation where the whole Western world is going to have cyclists having absolute advantage because it's sustainable because it's ecological because it's healthy because it reduces pollution because it doesn't use energy because it's cheaper. It's just that we're going back and we're still just going on the arm of motor vehicles whose comfort and flow doesn't get in at all. And it's really not clear at this point in time in this particular time where every Tuesday we listen to how much gas you're still stimulating the most unsustainable, expensive form of traffic? Here we will not support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114594	And finally, the HDZ club, a respected colleague of Grba-Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114595	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mathay's secretary of state. Well, it's nice to talk to so many people at all, I'm not going to comment on those who were in front of me except my fellow Dretar. A fellow Dretar if the actors were members of this doctor's committee then it would surely be much better for you. So the rule is given into the hands of the medics who will decide what they will write there. And let me, however, at the beginning, briefly sum up the changes and additions that we're going to vote for today. The amendments will regulate the participation in the transport of personal means of transport, such as electrical romobiles, will be enabled and arranged for their participation in road transport, the right and way of use of surfaces that can be moved, rules on drivers of those vehicles will be laid down, the sanctioning of drivers who park the vehicles in the intended places intended for charge of electric vehicles, provisions concerning the corridor for passing vehicles of emergency services, the supervision of the first aid boxes in the vehicle will be arranged, the administrative and financial burden of both the driver, both the doctor and the police departments relating to the medical examinations due to the temporary health condition of the driver shall be reduced. And they're equating sanctions against all drivers equally regardless of the state of issue of the driver's license. All proposed amendments are of great benefit, which will be determined by their application over a further period, especially with regard to the use of new technologies and the presence of new forms of transport. The relevant item is the protection of the health and life of participants in both pedestrians and others who will increase these amendments to the legal provisions. During the debate in this House, both committees and the meetings of the Parliament in two readings, the doctor's profession indicated the need to amend and supplement Articles 37 and 233 and that in the proposed amendments of the Government and accepted, and that the adoption of amendments by doctors would require temporary inability to enter into medical documentation and warn the patient that such a provision was entered and that it should not manage the motor vehicle during that time. We expect patients to behave responsibly and not drive a motor vehicle during that time. If the doctor does not enter a warning in the medical file, an infringement provision is provided for as much as for the driver if the doctor does not comply. After the expiry of the period of temporary incompetence, drivers will not be referred to a re-medical examination. These amendments will enter into force only after the Regulation on the health checks on drivers to be carried out by the Ministry of Health has been adopted within a year. I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for listening to the profession, to all doctors in the Assembly as well as to associations in health care, and a consensus has been reached jointly that enables preventive action in the protection of human life in transport. That's very important. With all thanks, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114596	Thank you. I therefore call on MPs and MPs to take their seats to go to the polls, but before that we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Mlinarić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114597	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 238th Injury of the Rules of Procedure is an insult to the MPs of Parliament. A colleague called her colleague Dretar an actor that he didn't. I think that in this assembly there's really enough insult and women who have been offended these days that it's enough, and since she's such a doctor, I would only remind her when she said at the beginning of the pandemic that they don't need masks, because masks don't use anything. So much for you being a doctor and being yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114598	My colleague Mlinarić, just a little bit, please. You get a warning, it wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure or a colleague of the coat of arms, Bujevic, a colleague of Dretara's, but she said that I couldn't be an actor in the commission, but a doctor. That was it. I don't know why you're doing this. ... Well, come on, you're getting a warning. [[You can't hear it.]] My colleagues, the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114599	Thank you, President of the Parliament. 238. if you open the site now of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on Mr. Dretar's website writes under the occupation of an actor. Then what was I supposed to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u114600	Then I apologize. Well, you could have warned him to write an actor! Okay. That's when you go to help where you don't know. Okay. Now let's vote on the government's amendments. There are four of them, we must vote individually. So who is in favour of the first amendment of the Government, or let's vote on the first amendment. One-on-one, 102 votes in favour. Amendment accepted. Amendment number two is also Government. Let's vote. 96 votes in favour, so that amendment has passed. Amendment number three is also a proposal from the government. 105 for. The third amendment has passed. And let's vote the fourth amendment to the government. 102 were all in favour, so the fourth amendment of the Government passed, so now we are going to the amendments submitted during the debate between MPs Ruzica Vukovac and Renata Sablar Dračevac, MP Davor Dretar, Darko Klasic, Željko Lenart, Erik Fabianić, representative Dalia Oreshković, Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives, Green-left bloc club, SDP, MOST, MP Marija Selak Rasudić and representative Katarina Peović. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means and we will now vote on those which are not accepted by the applicant. Then I'll talk a little louder. The first amendment by the SDP representative club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 2. The Green-left bloc's club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number three The HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives Club has been withdrawn. Number four. The Green-left bloc's club is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 5th amendment has been withdrawn, which is the amendment of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives' club. The 6th Amendment is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Retired. 8. A SDP representative club, the government doesn't accept. Let's vote. ... Then you pull it back. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Then we'll go to nine. The Bridge government's advocates' club is not accepting it. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 10th Amendment of MP Selak Raspoudic is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 11th amendment, Sablar Dračevac, was withdrawn as well as the 12th amendment of MP Darko Klasic. 13th representative Katarina Peovic is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 14th Amendment, MP Oreshkovic, is not accepted by the government. ... Thank you, that's the same one that's been withdrawn. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 15. MP Ruzica Vukovac does not accept the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 16th amendment of Dretar's representative is also withdrawn. Someone's on. Thank you. [[Intruder Dretar: Pulling.]] Someone's on, please look off, turn off someone else is involved I don't know who. 17th Amendment, MP Eric Fabianic, the government does not accept. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 18 Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 19th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 20th amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, is not accepted by the government. ... It's been withdrawn and the 20th amendment means. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The 21st Amendment of MP Sablar Dračevac we vote on him by the government does not accept him. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 22nd amendment of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives club has been withdrawn. 23. Representative Darko Klasic is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 24th Amendment of the Legislative Committee was withdrawn. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Let's vote. 114 MPs and MPs voted, 98 for, 8 abstentions and 8 against and the Law on amendments to the Road Safety Act was passed. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency, first reading, P.Z. No. 301. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Let's vote. 123 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 22 abstentions, 24 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119699	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a 10 minute break to thank all the representatives' clubs in HS who supported this first-reading bill, and I am doing so in front of those who I already have many mandates in HS, and this is about a safe improvement in pensions, not in coordination but in pensions at the base that will be coordinated for cca 300,000 family pensions and another 200,000 per assessment of the lowest pensions. So thank you, at the same time, to all those critics who have personally and hit on various suggestions and my proposals because they have strengthened the task force of the ministry to bring and find the best model and one combination between the social and fair that is contained in the amendment and supplementation proposal of this law, as well as to allow for a proposal to amend and supplement protection against children's family pension users and, as well as to improve some categories of pensioners such as firefighters who have so far been unable to do so. At the same time, I am using the opportunity for all those who are not on social networks who do not have money to buy newspapers to inform them that today the payment of the energy supplement for 53,000 pensioners who, along with our pension, have a pension from abroad and fall under the government's decision criteria as well as the payment of a national allowance for the elderly of around 7,000. Thank you very much and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119700	We'll approve the apartment, but we won't consume it so we can move on. I am voting on the next conclusion "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. 128 MPs and MPs voted, 119 for, 9 abstentions, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119951	There's only three of you, so this one, I can't say hello otherwise. Before we start working, I would just like to ask you, even if there are so few of you, to pass on to your colleagues that in other clubs, in our clubs, etc., we will have what is called free speech or a statement by clubs and independent representatives after we finish these points we have, and before the vote because I believe that we will end this all before the vote, significantly before the vote, so that this one is announced yesterday, but there is no harm in repeating today so that no one will feel deprived, and then at 12 o'clock we will have a vote, as it is announced. Here, let's go, let's go to.../incomprehensible/... for a statement on the amendments. First of all, on the amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 304, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Anka Dark-Taritash. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, respectable State Secretary of the Central State Office for Demography and Youth, Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119952	Here, thank the chairman. The applicant for the amendment is representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. In the light of our amendment, it is not accepted. Namely, the rights adopted by adopters under the applicable Law on maternity and parental support shall be exercised under special conditions in accordance with the legal presupposed assumptions relating to the fact that the child is adopted and adapted to the needs of the person who adopted the child. With regard to the right to adoptive leave used by an employee and self-employed adoptive person, as well as the access to parental leave after the use of adoption leave, shall be effected under specific conditions of use and in accordance with the beginning of the application of the right relating to the day of power of the adoption solution, which may be used until the child's age. It is also not possible to edit the proposed solution. 12th of the proposed law, given that the provision in question refers to the right of an employed and self-employed father. Furthermore, the provisions on the rights of adopters constitute a separate chapter within the framework of this Law on maternity and parental support and cannot be regulated in the manner proposed in view of the prescribed conditions for the exercise of the right of adoption leave, as well as other rights of employees and self-employed adoptors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119953	Dear MPs, Mrak-Taritash is gone, so we're going to have to vote on that amendment. The Club of Representatives of the Most suggests that HS adopt the following conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Article. 36 The Law on maternity and parental support in such a way that adoptors can benefit from maternity leave even after 8 years of child’s life. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the proposed conclusion, the re-respected State Secretary of the Central State Demography Office, Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119954	Thank you. This conclusion is not accepted. According to the existing legal decisions, adoptors may benefit from maternity leave because maternity leave is a right used by a parent rather than an adopter. Art. 36 of the current Law on maternity and parental support is prescribed rights relating to employed and self-employed adoptive parents, and this right to an adoption leave of 6 months for a child up to 18 years of age and the right to parental leave until the 8th year of the child's life. The use of parental leave rights used by the adoptor until the age of 8 of the child does not lead to an unfair position of adoptor compared to a biological parent since the parent also uses the same right until the age of 8 of the child’s life. The adoption leave under your law has a similar purpose as maternity leave, but its duration is determined until the 18th year of the child's life, respecting the specific needs of adoptors and adoptors after adoption. On the other hand, parental leave is intended to raise a child to a certain age in accordance with the needs of a child for care, especially in view of the inclusion of a child in the education system. Prescribing opportunities for the adoption of parental leave rights after the use of adoption leave also respects the fundamental objective of the Law on maternity and parental support, as well as the legal solutions for which the adoptor uses the rights of parents. Based on an existing legal solution, an employee and self-employed adoptor, he is equal to a biological parent in the rights set out in this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119955	There are no representatives of the Bridge, so we're going to have to vote on this. Thank you very much for your well-respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u119956	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 304, the promoter is a government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Anka representative Mrak Taritas, who was not accepted by the government during a statement on amendments, we must vote on an amendment that the government has therefore not accepted. 115 MPs and MPs voted, 41 for, 74 against therefore the amendments did not receive the required number of votes, so I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. Please, let's vote. 130 voted MPs and MPs, 110 for, 14 abstentions and 6 against, and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support. The Club of Representatives of the Most proposed to the HS the adoption of the next conclusion ‘It is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Article. 36. The law on maternity and parental support in such a way that adoptors can benefit from maternity leave even after the 8th year of child's life." I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion which the applicant does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that 122 MPs and MPs voted, 48 for 74 against, and the conclusion was not given by the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120510	We are now going to make a statement on the amendment to the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the proposals are 92 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, honourable representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter of amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, we cannot accept such two amendments to the SDP Club for formal and legal reasons. Namely, an integral part of the Proposal for an Amendment to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court are, as a rule, the draft amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court itself. These amendments require the SDP to remove from the Constitutional Court's decision an initiative to amend the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court itself the text which amends the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court in order to enable other initiatives to be included in the interpretation of the amendments and written in addition to, in the amendments to the Constitution. We hold that from the very act which has been delivered and sent to the procedure cannot be removed in this way alone by the text of amendments to the Constitution which is both in the normative part and in, and explained, but that it must form an integral part of.../incomprehensible/... acts, in order to clearly be known through the debate in terms of amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and amending. We therefore hold that, for these reasons, it is unacceptable, but on the other hand, we have made it clear that we are going to these amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court only in the section relating to the improvement of the constitutional framework for the implementation of the referendum. In this regard, we do not accept amendments from the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120512	Thank you. Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister to make a statement on the amendment, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Sanjin Rukavina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120513	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. It is considered that the adoption of the above-mentioned amendment, under which words could be deleted from point 2 of the decision, on the basis of the accession decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by representatives in the Croatian Parliament to their proposal as of the year, could give rise to the impression that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is taking over the role of the promoters of 92 MPs. This is regarding amendments to the amendments to the Constitution and the amendment also does not accept amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120514	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120515	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, first, one little lesson to the government's representative. The moment the Assembly decides on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution, the Constitution Committee will also take over the role of the promoters and designers of all acts related to the amendment of the Constitution. So this argument of yours doesn't stand in that part, obviously they didn't prepare you very well for this. But let's go back to the explanation why the amendment here is being made by counterpart Bacic. Let's put aside the formal... We can talk about this because the sucus is next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we make a decision on the accession to the amendment of the Constitution, as I have already said, it is the Committee on the Constitution that will lead the debate, the discussions, the steps, I hope that one advisory body will be formed in the spirit of good practice, which will include all clubs, and not just those representatives who are involved in the Committee on the Constitution, but that is a question that is just waiting for us. But to me, it's much more important to this content part of what you've been talking about. Through the entire debate was carried out one thread that we need agreement to change the Constitution and it is indeed because without 101 MPs without 2/3 MPs in the Croatian Parliament to change the Constitution will not come. We want that consent, but if you want it, if you want this change to work, then show it. Then show your willingness to consider all that will be put on the table. Among these, there are things that could be good, which we can all agree on. What we don't agree on won't come in because it can't, without 101 MPs, it can't. But show at least a hint of width that you're ready to talk and that's all we've been looking for through this Amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120516	Thank you. The MOST advocates' club, you're looking for a vote, of course. The club of the representatives of MOST proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw the next conclusion. 1. In the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to take into account the code of good practice or recommendations of the Venice Commission on the excessity and counterproductivity of the quorum and the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must be made mandatory to involve citizens who would decide this through the referendum. 2. The referendum is a key civil democratic tool that allows people's will to be expressed in an inter-election period. In the time of the crisis ahead, it is necessary for citizens to facilitate participation in democratic processes, which means facilitating referendum initiatives, rather than going towards their disabling, as is the case now. 3. It is necessary to reduce the number of signatures needed to call a referendum, extend the time limit for collecting signatures, enable the collection of signatures through the e-Citizens system and enable the collection of signatures on all public areas and private places. I would like to ask the motioner's representative to make a statement on the proposed conclusion, the honourable representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the motion for a Decision amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, we do not accept this conclusion for several reasons. First of all, it's unnecessary. Thus, through the debate there is a clear set of proposals, suggestions almost all of which are an integral part of this conclusion. Therefore, in the minutes with, with the debate held on the subject of the Amendment to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, there were even more opinions, the reflections of the proposals than the conclusion itself. Therefore, on the moment when the Assembly, which today has adopted a proposal to amend the Constitution, a proposal for a decision to initiate amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, the whole procedure, as counterpart Grbin said, is taken over by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and everything the Most Club has proposed in this conclusion will be on the table and will be able to and will be discussed. It is clear that, by proposing the very decision to amend the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, we have given our direction in a certain way. We also said during the debate that we were open to certain proposals and when it comes to the quorum of decision-making. That is what Mr. Vrkljan particularly declared himself to be one of the proposings, and he wanted it to be highlighted when it comes to the quorum of decision-making. He also thinks he is high, so in the section relating to the quorum of decision-making and in the section relating to topics that could be questioned in the referendum itself. We are therefore open, but we will carry out this whole debate through the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system In that sense, we cannot accept this conclusion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120518	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120519	To be clear, this conclusion and its fundamental direction are contrary to the applicant's intensities or to the way in which the referendum issue in the Republic of Croatia is to be settled. We did not ask you here if you heard these suggestions because we made them clear in both the Croatian Parliament and the public. We ask you, in this conclusion, to commit to them or to accept them. And what's the difference between our proposal to facilitate the referendum initiatives and what you're offering through your amendments to the law. First of all, you probably don't want to commit yourself because you're afraid of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and you're afraid of the referendum as such, which is why you're going into these legal changes. We would like, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, to declare at the citizens' referendum on the regulation of the referendum issue. It is their fundamental right and they have the right to decide on it. And secondly, what we want and what we insist on, of course, is to remove the quorum, not to reduce it, but to abolish it because it is not recommended by the Venice Commission for the principle issues of this nature. The quorum that you have proposed is only a fig leaf and that the Croatian public should know, which will be negotiated 5% below, but which is not the key problem of your proposal, nor the only problem of your restriction in the practice of referendum initiatives that are not only restrictive but de facto elimination. The key problem is the sovereignty of the constitutional court that you provide with your legislative proposal that will intervene before the initiative, during and after the initiative, so you do not settle referendum issues in the Republic, you destroy it, and the fact that you will not accept this conclusion and confirm it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120520	Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 92 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, which the applicant did not accept during the amendment's statement, so we will vote on it. So we're voting on.../incomprehensible/... And I'm sorry, before the vote, we have two requests for a break so far, the first colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120521	Dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no reason why the opposition would support these HDZ amendments to the Constitution. Two months, maybe more, you've been negotiating with them. You found out about Branko Bačić and the others, and what did you get in those conversations? You've got the figure. You didn't get anything, they didn't agree to any of your proposals, and today's vote isn't about how you like to horn in the media to open the process. The process goes on without you. They will launch the process with 76 hands, and the Constitution cannot change it anyway without you. He'll have to sit with you again. We will not sit with them, we will not sit with those who stole a series of referendums last through the Constitutional Court, which is also the president you supported by colleagues on the left, and not that he has been compromised, that he is commercial and that he should not be given more authority than that, despite all that you have actually voted on by that Constitutional Court, so that his powers should be reduced and he should not be given more authority. What HDZ proposes is to take power from the people and hand over power to such a compromised and commercial constitutional court. I call on Croatian citizens, I call on trade unions, I call on civil society associations, I call on all those who have organised a referendum to follow these HDZ talks and the left opposition and I call on colleagues from the left not to give their hands to HDZ today and their amendments to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120522	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120523	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes, for consultations and for us to say clearly and loudly that the Homeland Movement will not support the amendment of the Constitution in order to amend the Law on Referendum. To remind all the Croatian public, the first reading of the Law on Referendum passed through this Parliament a few months ago. I don't see the need to change the constitution to put a 33% censorship that the referendum is valid if so many voters come out. If we are so brave and would change the constitution because of the referendums, why don't we change it for the elections, so it is, that the elections are invalid if 40% or 45% of people don't come out, so let's see how to vote both left and right, to vote for such changes, and not to make it happen as in Split with 20% of voters to take power. Therefore, once again loud and clear, the Homeland Movement is not in favour of amending the Constitution because it restricts the rights of Croatian citizens to make known through the referendums about some issue which they suffer and suffer, and how many Croatian citizens have confidence in the Constitutional Court say all the research they have done. Therefore, the spent politicians here from the parliament, HDZ and SDP, who most of them are not all sitting, there are both honest and honest people and professionals. But most spent politicians, the Croatian people don't trust such a constitutional court either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120524	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120525	Dear colleagues and colleagues and I seek a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to clarify another position we advocate and represent when it comes to constitutional changes. So, unlike my predecessors, I think it is very important and necessary to go to constitutional changes and that the proposal we have received, signed by 92 MPs in this House, is a good basis for this kind of debate. What's not good? It is not good to use the Constitution as the highest legislative act of this country and I would say to an institution that keeps us a little more cohesive to push through any partial interests or not to give God to trade. What we expect will happen in the near future will already be the real inflation of the requirements for changing the Constitution in some of their aspects. So what we are proposing is that we disagree, therefore with this kind of commercial practice, but we are proposing and we will go with the conclusion to this very highest legislative body, the representative body of this country, with the conclusion that we are asking for a full debate to be launched and that it is going into constitutional reform. After 2000, after 22 years, the time has come to review a whole series of institutes that are controversial, which cause problems before... The problem of the electoral process, election units, issues of the election of constitutional judges and the Constitutional Court as an institution is mentioned here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue of Croatia's regional structure, the issue of judicial reform. Nothing is going to be able to do that unless we start having a serious conversation about it and include a broad professional and scientific public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120526	Thank you. The apartment is approved. And finally, fellow Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120527	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, I am looking for a 10-minute break in order to further consult and to warn my colleagues from the Most, especially my colleague, Grmoy that he is not putting us all down from the left opposition in the same basket. We will vote against this proposal. We are never and will never participate in any kind of shops like some others do from both left and right, nor do we think of that. So I would beg correctness to warn myself that it is not on the other side, on the left hand side of the assembly all the same and not all the same. I wasn't even invited to a meeting, and if I had been called, I wouldn't have responded. So at HSS stores he won't. You can throw all you want. Trade, you've broken up the Constitutional Court nicely, the Supreme Court. It's all a store between you know very well who. We were not involved in this, and I ask you to concentrate in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120528	We still have another request for a break from colleague Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120529	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Constitution is a fundamental act of any state, including ours. Let me remind all of us together once again that we in this House of Higher Education, as the new minister has sworn today, have sworn to the following "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal forefather and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." We swore that we would respect the constitution and it would be very good to do so in our daily work. In fact, point 17. today, which will be voted on is one proposal where we go with a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to respect the constitution, respect the law and implement it and to all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia to obtain the conditions that all women have no matter where they live the same right to abortion. It's not a proposal or an abortion, it's not a proposal or an appeal to conscience, it's a proposal, imagine a parliament, imagine a state where we have to go with a proposal that the government and the minister do their job. Namely, Prime Minister Plenkovic has told you who will vote against this proposal do not respect the constitution, do not respect the law that will enter the anales is today's vote on item 17, that point says you are doing your job and respect the constitution. And what kind of constitutional changes are we talking about? Well, we don't need any changes if our government's daily work, our ministers don't respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120530	The apartment is approved. There's a colleague named Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120531	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute IDS club, not to consult, but to clarify two or three things. So, in negotiations with the ruling coalition, we wanted to send a message that we want to talk and that we need to talk, the constitution is a fundamental legal act of all citizens and citizens of the Republic and it requires consensus. The consensus always takes a little compromise and conversation, and that's why we're not all, but I did sign because I wanted to send that message. My signature certainly wasn't necessary, the ruling one has enough and 76, but they were also required by ruling to understand that message, I don't think they were because if they had been included in the opposition proposal in the debate. Nothing would cost you that day we could spend a few hours more discussing the right woman's abortion, someone would do it with content, someone might be pulsistic, but that's every right choice each and it's legitimate and it would be discussed, I think it would be much more correct. Then they would send a message to respect our thoughts as well. That's why we won't be against it today, but we won't vote for it either, because we want to send the message again, today we'll be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120532	All right, break's approved. Here you go, pal. ... Turn off your comrade Grumo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know why you got involved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club For a just Croatia for 10 minutes to perhaps draw attention to the fact that I started my political career some two years ago by actually seeking greater authority for those who sent us here, so to Croatian voters, Croatian people and referendums were one of these issues. In fact, inspired by my colleague Vidovic's discussion, I am in order to be serious about it, but serious determination towards the constitution means that we can't go on our noses like this, almost the last day of the HS session, enter this agenda point and sort of drag it under the radar. What will happen if the constitution changes as it wishes to rule is that people are actually denied access to the referendum and that the census is raised to be given to the constitutional court of power, and we also know what kind of constitutional court is, that decisions are made earlier and that even if a referendum is held, it can challenge those decisions. This is not a serious way, and that is what the Croatian people and the Croatian state need. We need serious changes, we need changes to the electoral law first and foremost to make it more credible here. Everything else, no matter how much you justify and washed it is nothing more than a clean trade like trade when the last changes or the last changes to the constitution were and when you abolished the diaspora with one simple move by five representatives and when the Croatian constitution started so that the referendum could be made so that a small number of people came out, one person voted in favour and the referendum passed. As a result, let each one vote on his conscience, I will personally also be restrained because I hope it can be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120534	Okay, and we have another new request from a colleague of the coat of arms here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120535	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. In 2009, when the amendments to the constitution were approached, we also had two proposals, one which was referred to by the ruling, the other by the opposition. What was the difference between then and now? The difference was that they were then ruling, although the same from HDZ knew that when it comes to changing the constitution, then the minimum minimum of democratic functioning was to at least discuss both proposals. If there is something we want to achieve agreement on, then it should also be shown by deeds, not just words. If we want something that Croatian society needs, and we want to arrange how it will be decided in the referendum, it is really necessary, then we need to be ready to talk, listen to all the arguments and also how we make some decisions to show it. The ruling majority did not do so this week, nor did it allow two proposals to be discussed in the assembly this week for a change of constitution, nor did it accept the amendment that we of the SDP Club referred to so as not to bind hands to the Constitutional Committee and allow it to take into account all that is proposed and then try to reach the agreement that we need because, although it is really necessary to regulate the part of the Constitution relating to the referendum decision, we have other things that we need. The one that really matters to us in the SDP is to protect women's right to choose. But we also have a question of the public work of the Constitutional Court that created certain problems and a negative picture of him. That's why I'm calling you. Now we're going to vote on the amendments we've made. Support them and show that you really want these changes to succeed and that you really want us to come to an agreement around them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120536	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. And now we have another request, Comrade Bacic, here you go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120537	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in order to once again invite all MPs in the Assembly to support the proposal to amend the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law are on the trail of discussions and proposals of the general and professional public in Croatia often and on the trail of the opposition parties' proposals, in particular the SDP which has already discussed this several times, and during the last 5.6 years it has been with the HDZ Representatives' Club in this regard and almost reached a consensus on the proposed amendments. By proposing changes, we have clearly said in our conversation with the opposition parties that we are ready to discuss and when it comes to reducing the quorum of decision-making and when it comes to defining topics that could be implemented through a pre-referendum assessment of constitutionality and we have clearly communicated this, but we also said that we will not enter into different amendments to the Constitution because these changes that we have proposed are not particular party interest of HDZ, they are an unsustainable social need, and this unscheduled social need stems from the fact that we have experience from several referendum initiatives implemented that have shown that the current referendum framework in Croatia is subsidized, lacking, poor and inadequate, and the responsibility of representatives in HS, independently coming from the left or right political spectrum, that this referendum framework is regulated. In that sense I said, we are to be blackmailed we will not, it is not about our particular interest, if the opposition does not want it, we will withdraw those amendments and we will adopt the Law on a referendum in the second reading as proposed in the first. In that sense, we seek today's support for these changes. Constitution and constitutional law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120538	Stanka's been approved to you, too. We'll continue in accordance with the article. 293.b., and we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Grmo and a colleague of Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120539	He's been injured. 238. It is touching to listen to this siren call to the rest of the opposition of those who stole several referendums, He's been injured. 238, [[/Intruder: What's hurt?]] An article was injured, so where counterpart Bacic calls on the opposition that if they do not support HDZ they are responsible for something. [[/Intruder: What?]] No, they are not responsible but are responsible only to the Croatian people, not Branko Bačić and HDZ, and they call this siren where he calls you. to enter this anti-national and anti-referendum coalition. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120540	We haven't put our fellow Thunderbolts in breach of the Rules of Procedure yet, maybe we should. Buddy, you're getting a warning, of course. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120541	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238 where he demeans parliamentary deputies. He also demeans the people because this is an anti-national proposal for a referendum, about the right of people to make their vote. That's an art. Constitution, first article. Therefore, Branko Bačić demeans the parliamentary deputies that I now call on the opposition, too, don't support this, this is an anti-national proposal, an anti-national proposal, and don't be part of the cemetery holding the shovel [[Agreement: Buddy Bulj, you get...]] and bury democracy. [[/Intruder: colleague Bulj, please. You're getting a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120542	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here comes my colleague Zekanovic for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120543	Dear President, of course. 238. The colleagues from the bridges are being played as protectors of the national referendums, and in fact they were murderers and saboteurs of two referendums, a referendum on Istanbul and a referendum on the protection of Croatian Kuna. [[Intruder: Comrade Zekanovic, what has been broken?]] And that's what the Croatian public must... [[What's wrong, what's broken?]] So reprimanding, 238. Furthermore, if these constitutional changes will prevent the SDP from launching its referendum on the introduction of abortions into the Constitution, then this should be supported, Whoever's against it knows what he's like. [[Invader: Thank you very much, dear colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u120544	You also know that you deserve a warning. We're going to vote now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to vote now. ... First we vote on the amendment submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] During the amendment statement, the applicant did not accept the SDP proposal and we will now vote on it. Please, let's vote. So on the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives. The vote was voted by 100 MPs and MPs, 25 for, 70, so the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Art. 148. The Constitution and the Art. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS determines that a half majority of all MPs are required to make this decision, i.e. 76. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. 110 MPs and MPs voted, 80 were for, 11 abstentions and 19 were against and thus a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted. The Most representative club proposes that HS adopt the following conclusion: 1. In the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to take into account the code of good practice or recommendations of the Venice Commission on the excessity and counterproductivity of the quorum and on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is mandatory to include citizens who would decide this through the referendum; 2. The referendum is a key civil democratic tool that allows people's will to be expressed in the inter-election period, in the time of the crisis ahead, it is necessary for citizens to facilitate participation in democratic processes, which means facilitating the referendum initiatives, not going towards them, such as the present case and third, it is necessary to reduce the number of signatures needed to sign the referendum, extend the deadline for collecting signatures, enable the collection of signatures through the e-Citizens system and enable the collection of signatures on all public areas and private places. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion which the applicant does not accept. Please, let's vote. 90 MPs voted, 13 were in favour, 77 against therefore the conclusion did not get the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121099	Thank you very much. We are going to take the following statement on the amendment to the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession and Amendment of the Constitution of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 92 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, the amendment was made clear by the proposal's representative, also by the government's representative, and the club's representative was, in fact, the same because it was the same thing, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121100	Just formally to enter the record for the same reasons...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121101	Of course, of course you're welcome, on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121102	Thank you. We're looking for a vote on this amendment without repeating the reasons, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121103	Thank you very much. It is the same with the conclusion proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most, it is the same conclusion for, the proposed conclusion on the previous point, which was obvious by the proposal's representative, which is why we will have to vote on it. Now, that's what we're actually done with saying about the amendments, it's early this morning so that no matter what those who came forward should be here and the others who want to debate on behalf of or present their views on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives so that they don't feel deprived I'll now give a break by 10 and 30, so half an hour almost with a request that this one, if they look at us, listen, have interest, want, etc. That this one comes in at 10:30 and then we'll have a statement on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and I ask you to pass on whoever you see from the MPs, thank you very much. It's 10.08 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u121104	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 92 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, which the applicant did not accept during the amendment's statement, and we will vote on it. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not get the required number of votes, 104 voted, 26 was for, 75 was against. Art. 148th Constitution and Art. 249. The Rules of Procedure of the HS determines that a half majority of all MPs are required to make this decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. The vote was voted by 110 MPs and MPs, 80 for, 11 abstentions, 19 against and we made a decision on the accession of amendments to the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Club of Representatives of the Mosta has proposed the same conclusion as for the previous point, which the applicant did not accept, and we will vote on it, so the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, let's vote. This time, it voted 88 MPs and MPs, 11 for, 77 was against it, so the proposed conclusion did not get the required number of votes. Proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure the legal right of termination of pregnancy at the request of all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia, the proposing representative of Anka Mrak Taritas, the debate has been concluded, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure the legal right to terminate pregnancy on request in all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia which is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's vote. 113 MPs and MPs voted, 38 for, 2 abstentions and 73 against the proposed conclusion did not receive the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122707	President-in-Office of the HS, we are looking for a 10-minute break to point out once again that in yesterday's debate, Minister Grlic Radman did not give a single valid argument why he should continue to act as foreign and European affairs minister. In his term, Croatia did not meet any foreign policy strategic goals, we have not resolved a single border issue, we have not resolved the issue of the electoral law in BiH, we have not resolved better protection of the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia, it did not look back on a single word of the disgraceful statements of the ambassador who is taking the bills of Hidajet Bištovic in Belgrade. He also covered up corrupt activities in diplomatic services by his actions. Minister Grlic Radman is simply not up to his task and no benefits Croatia and Croatian citizens have had since he officially left for BiH 16 times in his 3 years, which had 38 meetings with other foreign ministers, the results are not visible. People in business, in sports, even in politics on, ultimately, measure only by results. With Minister Grlic Radman, the result is lagging behind in every respect, he will remain only remembered for his special speech, especially yesterday when he said 32 MPs will stone him, no one will stone him, we just think he is not up to the role of Minister of European and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122708	Are there any more interested? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I am voting in favour of the decision to distrust Gordan Grlic Radman, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that 133 MPs and MPs, 56 for, 77 against the fact that no decision has been taken to distrust Gordan Grlic Radman, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are now going to the proposal to show confidence to Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Art. 119. The Rules of Procedure of HS held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 119st of the 10th Rules of Procedure of this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that. The 252th Rules of Procedure determines that to show confidence to members of the government, a half majority of all MPs are therefore required 76. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. Voted Just a little bit, just a little please, just a little bit, was voted by 129 MPs and MPs, 79 was for, 1 abstention and 49 was against and thus was expressed confidence to Oleg Butkovic and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] I wish the new vice president successful in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty. Now you can clap [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122711	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club for 10 minutes in order to give confidence to the new finance minister once again, in what way the new minister will discuss and what measures he will implement to help the households most affected by inflation and which will potentially be affected by the energy crisis that packages have. We still don't know that because those measures haven't been laid out. Today, the DZS released data on the consumer price index in June showing that consumer prices rose by more than 12% compared to June last year, with the largest increase in the transport and food and drink sector. As we know, precisely among those groups of citizens who have the lowest income rate, the share of traffic costs and the share of food and drink costs makes up the largest part of their home budget. That is why this week we have organized a round table in the assembly on this topic where we have actually all reached consensus that all the measures that go from now on to the future must not be horizontal, acting on everything equally, but special packages for different types of households that are affected by inflation in different ways, but also that will also be potentially threatened by the lack of energy or the inability to pay for them. I appeal now and I am taking this opportunity to ask the future minister to respond equally to the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund to use funds aimed at energy poor households in a different way that will allow them to survive this winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122712	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we'll continue in accordance with the article. 293.b, so I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Mark Primorac for the role of Minister of Finance. Please, let's vote. We find that 132 MPs and MPs, 77 for and 55 against, have voted against, so that Mark Primorac's trust in the duties of the finance minister has been expressed. Now we'll do it after we've done it. the trust by showing confidence has been given the conditions for swearing to a new minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article. 120. [[Applause]] Rules of Procedure of HS and Art. 5. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sworn in in a way that the pronunciation of the text of the oath and thereafter calls upon individual members of the Government and swears by the members of the Government by standing up and saying "I swear." The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Marco Primorac, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122713	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-15-0.u122714	Congratulations, Minister. And I wish him much success in this demanding and responsible work. [[Applause.]]
