ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83053	Thank you very much. As long as the family lives in Croatia, everyone who works abroad is resident and has to pay the difference in taxes in Croatia. In these words, the cold and soulless director of the Tax Administration explained why they send payments for the period from 2016 to today to people who have gone abroad to work by force. And it doesn't matter that they couldn't find a job here because a party colleague was more like a job in a municipality or a utility company, and it doesn't matter that they're sending money to a family who spends it here and pays one of the highest VAT in the EU, and it doesn't matter that people went by force of opportunity, not because they're boasting and looking for bread from the top of the cake. For the Tax Administration and Minister Maric, it is only important to draw your hand deeper into the pocket of Croatian citizens wherever you are in the world and to settle the needs of the predators who are rising like mushrooms after the rain because in Croatia the population is getting smaller, but employees in municipalities, counties, cities, ministries and agencies are increasing. When the DZS announced a month ago that 400 thousand of us were down in 10 years, there was little grief and harassment in the media, and that's it. The rulings have explained that it's like this everywhere because there, and in developed countries, there are fewer and fewer people and people are moving. For them it is also the fact that we are part of the developed world, hypocritical and insolent. There is no measure for demographic restoration, but that's why the taxpayers went into action to make us even less on the next list. Because if you pay taxes as long as your family is in Croatia, what will people do to you? They're moving the whole family out. So far, they have left because of corruption, nepotism and clientelism, and now they will leave both for the tax collector and for the high-level minister Maric. However, these are rules for ordinary mortals, who have to pay. For the chosen rules are not applicable, for companies without employees who are mostly washing machines, it is not worth it. Their tax debt is measured by millions of kunas and nothing to anyone. And they're not the only ones. When you're big enough, then millions of kunas forgive you. When Agrokor bought Belje, the state forgave them 800 million kunas of debt, when that same Agrokor bought Vupik, the state forgave him 600 million kunas of debt, and those who went with their belly after bread, pay or let the whole family go, and the rest of the critics will be resolved by ruling. We're still paying for the mistakes. At the beginning of this year, Australian cattle transport operator Wellard successfully solved the arbitration in London against HBOR based on which HBOR should pay $12 million plus interest from 2018 to today. Wellard concluded a contract with Uljanika in 2015 on the construction of a boat that was broken up, the ship was never built, and Uljannik went into bankruptcy, regardless, HBOR must pay $12 million plus interest. We're still waiting for an arbitration account with MOL, and it's also going to be a significant sum. And who's sitting on the HBOR Supervisory Board? Minister Ćoric, who claims that oil, forests, water and beaches are not Croatian and therefore collects a miserable concession, then the arrested minister who assured us that the reconstruction is about to begin, the minister who charges Brnjak's position rent, the most famous Banja Luka student, the indisputable Luka Burilovic and, of course, Minister Maric, who is the most efficient finance minister, when it comes to tax collection and that in the EU. Well, we congratulate him, all the hero to the hero, when there's going to be a harbinger to pay for covering all their failures and feeding the army of arrests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83117	Thank you very much. I am neither registered in Zagreb nor belong to all Croats, I think I will have to pay the full price however I look. Mr. Erik Fabianic will hold the positions of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83118	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My statement on behalf of the Social Democrats Club is dedicated to the publishing industry, and yesterday in Rijeka, we can also call the protesting stands, which was called "Depreciation Policy by Book" organised by the Community of Publishers of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. Twenty days ago, the Ministry of Culture and Media announced the results of applications to support the publication of books in 2022, many publishers, not only from the Primorje-Gorski County, have been protesting the strange distribution of budget money for several years. The results of this year's support competition really pour out a glass of patience. 150 publishers from 15 counties and the City of Zagreb applied for the competition, from 5 counties did not come a single application, which also speaks of the state of publishing. The total amount of aid granted is 7 million 799 thousand kuna. Support has been granted for 71 publishers, and it has been rejected for 79, already bringing this data to the fore, the number of projects rejected has been higher than the number of approved projects. But that's not all. So half of the approved amount, 3 million and 900 thousand kuna, received only 15 publishers of those 71 that I had mentioned earlier. All 15 are exclusively from Zagreb. And in order to avoid confusion among those 15, there are no major publishers at national level who otherwise publish the largest number of editions per year and for which it would be reasonable to expect them to be ahead of the aid received. So there's neither the school's book nor the Alpha, nor the Knowledge, nor the Mosaic, nor the other stronger publishers. Then who are the winners of these greatest amounts? The same ones that the Ministry of Culture and the media has longed for a number of years of ATMs through which citizens only make their own plans. The good part of these publishers is money from the Ministry of Culture and Media, which is from support, which is from purchases, which is from entrepreneurship in culture from 40 to 72% of total annual income. Imagine how easy it is to plan a business even pandemic year when you know you'll get more than half the funding from the state. The state has reason to assume the ownership of these publishers in the end if they live with more than half the financial year's assets than what they are coming in for. The second half of the amount has been allocated to the other 56 publishers, of these 56 publishers 44 are again only and exclusively from Zagreb. The eight publishers outside Zagreb received a total of only 320,000 kuna and 4% of approved support. Support is not granted to any publisher from as many as 9 Croatian counties, of course Primorje-goranska, Istria, Brod-Posaviska, Karlovačka, Bjelovarsko-bilogorska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Sibenik-Kninska, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska and eventually Krapina-Zagorska. These are data that are already enough for a general rebellion, it is about publishing and it is about an activity that may not be so popular in Croatia today, and there is no reason not to be. Why not decentralise or have clear funding criteria, one of the criteria may be the share of the county in GDP. In particular, the share of GDP of the Primorje-Gorski County is 8.3%, one part can also be downloaded to be consistent with other counties, especially those of the Adriatics most affected by this, this new way and the distribution of funds. The PGG got 0.5%, and the share in GDP said 8.3. It is an appeal and is required essentially to give up a new model of support through the purchase of books because in the end, why not restore the transparency that existed, which simply disappeared on the new criteria on which we today cannot know where these support ended. We may know publishers, but we don't know what titles they ended up in and how much per title they got. The situation, unfortunately, is catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83197	Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83198	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. When one of the clowns dies, the other clowns despite their masks and costumes show they're aware of the seriousness of the moment. Unfortunately, most in the Croatian Parliament are below such an intelligence. The arrest of one minister and the initiation of criminal proceedings against n8 for others is a political event after which the Croatian Parliament cannot continue to act as if nothing had happened, and yesterday literally by raping normality and continuing on the planned agenda on which we discussed among other things and on the Statistics Development Strategy we did just that. It was a sad demonstration of the defeat of the Croatian Parliament which no longer plays the role and importance it should have under the Croatian Constitution. Yesterday, I refused to participate in such a circus, and when I saw how the chairman of the session prevented parliamentary MPs who at least tried to take a break at all this, I realized that a certain resistance to your rules was necessary, and I will continue to try to provide that resistance, and that I continue to play an active role as parliamentary representative. After this meeting as well as the previous one dominated by Bandic's tokens showed that the fate of Croatia is decided by the corrupt majority as far as I'm concerned by the only topic of all future parliamentary debates and all political messages is a description of the measures and steps that need to be taken at all levels so that, after some next elections, whenever they were not repeated by the Thieves' Government and the thief's majority. But these are our national problems. Unfortunately, as of today, there are many greater international ones that we as a state are also part of. And again, there is a special sign of a small detail that took place on the sidelines of these controversies between Ante Deura, Dragana Jeckov and Milorad Pupovac. So the wrong use of nationality in the wrong context and with blood motives is a dangerous and very dangerous phenomenon. The invasion of Putin in Ukraine is a warning of what unimaginable horrors may arise because of mentally unbalanced mythological leaders. The motives of this attack have their own historical circumstances and do not come down to just what we know from some recent time. And the warning is also what ethnic nationalism and calling on the borders of our ancestors, some historical, some old. And now imagine what would happen if the same thing and the same mythology began to be promoted in the Balkans. Croatia has its connection with the Slavic peoples and my wish is given to our political commitment that can become very easily re-stabilised to become a factor and a mediator who is asked something at international level and respects something in solving this problem. We have the right to engage as mediator, but not in the way that the Prime Minister and the President of the State have done so far. They're doing it the wrong way. It would be good if Croatia could maintain neutrality in peace talks, it would be good if we could call for a calming tension and a return to the negotiating, diplomatic table, of course with the support of all the strong sanctions that the International Community is preparing for. It would be good if our Prime Minister and the President of the State would inform the public about our state positions and must first of all be aware that neither of them has the right to their own personal, own position. They must be aware that these issues and further steps that the Republic of Croatia will take simply must be agreed on because this is what the Constitution obliges them to do, and I hope that the International Community will also find a way to put enough pressure on Putin himself and everyone else within the Kremlin to try to stop him from inside. And it should not be forgotten that Putin, during his term, surrounded himself with his own political establishment, with oligarchs who in the good part do not follow the thoughts and wishes of my own Russian people whom I am fatly convinced that he does not support such work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83259	Mrs. Sandra Bencic will be the position of the Green-left bloc representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83260	Thank you. Here I was hoping that I would never, during my life, have a speech that would address some new war conflict and this war conflict that has a potentially much wider dimension than what we see today, but unfortunately it is. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, I would like to express my natural solidarity with all citizens and citizens of Ukraine who have woken up today in a state of war. A state of war that reminded us all of course of the '90s and everything that we've been going through ourselves. Of course, we believe that there is a consensus in this House that a state that attacks another sovereign state, an internationally recognised state, must be condemned as any use of violence and aggression must be condemned in achieving any goals. I would also like to stress here as someone who has spent years working on peace building and humanitarian law, including the real issues of refugees that I am particularly happy today that the entire opposition has reached a consensus that what Croatia can and must do is express its readiness not only to humanitarian aid but also to accept refugees. At the moment, the conflict is expected to lead to millions of refugees from Ukraine. You also know that the estimates by about a week ago were about a million, and today they're climbing to 2 to 3 million. What I believe Croatia can do at this time is to make a plan of acceptance and integration of all those refugees whom we will be able to provide in our frameworks, of course, with help. And we appeal, we appeal that and that very part of helping refugees and accepting refugees enter a joint declaration that I believe we will adopt tomorrow. Also, as the Green-Left bloc Club, except, of course, that we are in favour of immediate ceasefire, we advocate that all efforts, all efforts, both at the level of individual EU Member States and at European Council level, are directed to open talks and negotiations on the suspension of fire and withdrawal of Russian forces from the Ukraine area. Today someone asked me if there was any hope of negotiations? We cannot depend on hope, so we must act every day in order to and must, with the idea that we can and must stop the war and open negotiations that will lead to lasting and sustainable peace in the Ukraine area. It is also important, it is also important that we do not try on this issue, especially as regards the declaration to use this moment to justify or to get a consensus on some unilateral moves of prime ministers that occurred in the past or the foreign ministry as much as they may be in the right direction or not. This declaration shall not serve politicisation nor shall such steps be justified. It must exclusively be an expression of the solidarity of the Republic of Ukraine and not only the expression of solidarity but also a list of everything the Republic of Croatia can and intends to do at this time for the citizens and citizens of Ukraine. It must also be peaceful because we are a country where, in the Constitution, peacemaking is the highest value. And now it's time to, precisely with that position we affirm ourselves on the international agenda as someone who advocates peace and as someone who offers and solutions that can lead it. So we don't have to just follow in this matter with our experience and war, but also peaceful reintegration and everything that happened after the war we can be one of the leaders in that this This conflict stops and we go on a path of permanent peace. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83339	Thank you, too. And now, Mr. Troscott, you can sit down because we're crossing now, and we're already eight minutes behind on taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. And to comfort you, Mr. Troscott, the first one from your club, so Mr. Kujundzic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83340	Thank you, Chairman. How to keep some values that a man is grown up, not talk about those who are Croatia, here, in the last days, have continued to drag through the mud again, while making sure that you do not continue to shoe the man who is on the ground. He says one of the many comments on social networks, so why are me and mine in Ireland? Let's not look at them. It is in this comment that the whole essence of Croatian politics is summed up that, not only does not live the life that people live on the street, but it is so depressing that it makes people go away so that they do not see or hear what is happening. And that we're not all aware that a politician doesn't make a suit or tie. Politicians and his suit and tie make up an individual's life on the street. Says our prime minister in 2020, there's no way I'm wearing Eva Sanader's label, but way, this is the second HDZ. And it is this HDZ is really second. From today's perspective, Ivo Sanader was nothing but a clean amateur compared to these individuals I read about these days that belong to the alchemist category. However, at least Dr. Ivo will get a chance to put together a new government, but in exile because the speed that the ministers are catching in Croatia actually leads us to the conclusion that we will eventually get a chance to be ministers, and then when they end up in Remetinco, they often start to whisper, hurt their knee or leg, and then return them to HS which, by that very fact, turns into a cave of robbers. And the dilemma here is more than clear, either our prime minister is a particularly bad humane or on the other hand, there is one secret ministry of octopus familiane, which is composed of individuals of the ball that have no boundaries. And which has led us to the stage by its action that Remetinec will need to be expanded very quickly and declared culturally good for the zero categories in which the political options are burned. While all this was happening in this leeway, then the so-called so-called village of Croatia came into the country. Ministry of Beauty of Croatian Reality, which has a whole series of ministers whose task is to enhance life in Croatia, display legislative solutions like those that will change things in Croatia, etc., etc. And the only and key problem I feel sorry for is that in the entire course of these arrests somehow our Graso and our Hana were in a serious dilemma to delay the first dance because none of us were able to follow him from the breaking news of the arrests of ministers who were long ago in Croatia daily and one quite normal news was not one form of breaking news. When we underline everything, I think that in Croatia, the political reality is a big circus and we should seriously think about the possibility of building Croatian wire and charging tickets to those who want to observe what we are doing here and definitely not about crime, but about one form of organised crime, all of what we have seen these days, with little difference, criminal groups have a code of honor. We see that the code of honor in the events of the past days does not exist, not only in the context of snitching and not only in the wicked acts, but in what hardly anyone can forgive this country, is that they have defiled the values that were full of mouths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83411	Thank you very much. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Sabina Glasovac shall be the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no worse morning or worse day than the one who starts with morning news of war, aggression, chaos, sirens, explosions, people who run away with their heads, regardless of their despair, suffering, fear, uncertainty, unrest, blackness and hopelessness. And today, as we here also speak for this pay phone, we speak the death of soldiers, civilians, innocent people and children. The greatest values of every man, nation, country, Europe, and the world are life, freedom and peace. It's precisely these essential values that were seriously questioned this morning. Therefore, I am taking the opportunity to strongly condemn and express concern on behalf of the SDP club and this pay phone on behalf of Russia's none-provoked attack on Ukraine, a serious and brutal violation of international law and a coup on the sovereignty of a country. Croatia and Europe are on the side of freedom and peace. Our thoughts are with Ukrainian citizens and citizens, while in these difficult moments they face fear for their lives. Unfortunately, we in Croatia know very well what aggression is and what war is, so this is how we express solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Croatia must now assist Ukraine, prepare to accept refugees and provide humanitarian assistance, and this time we also appeal to the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia and expect him to invite all parliamentary parties and report to the Croatian Parliament on the situation and on further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83499	Thank you. Now Davor Ivo Stier will speak to the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I hope he will not talk about how much he will pay the cabler returnees from Argentina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. No, my intensity today is to take this opportunity of free speech to express on behalf of the HDZ Club full of solidarity with Ukraine, to express on behalf of the HDZ Club support for the positions of the Republic of Croatia which, the Prime Minister, has resumed at 5 points. One is a clear condemnation of zero-provoked aggression of the Russian Federation, another is an invitation to the Russian Federation to cease such aggression, the third is solidarity with Ukraine, solidarity and support for sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine, fourth support for the unity of the West, the EU's unity in the adoption and the sanctions package that must be directed precisely against those who trigger aggression and fifth preparedness and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine if necessary, if necessary, if necessary, of course, the reception of refugees. We know how much this meant, this solidarity of friendly countries when we were the victim of aggression. What I mentioned on behalf of the HDZ Club, of course, is to support such views, but it also exceeds party preferences. The attempt of those who triggered the aggression was to bring as much division as possible, division in the West, division that Europe and America move away, instead of getting closer, attempt to divide within the EU, and attempt to divide within EU and NATO members on a political stage. Our answer is just the opposite, which is unity, and we also showed it when we had a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy the day before yesterday when all political forces supported the conclusions of that committee supporting Ukraine in support of sovereignty, territorial integrity and international law. When we condemned this particular violation of international law by the Russian Federation, this invasion was not yet launched, but it was a recognised separatist republic and thus violated, of course, international law and there was all the political forces at that session that agreed and supported it. So we built and we built this and this consensus from the HDZ Club because it's exactly the most powerful way that we as part of the West can respond, which is to contribute to this unity. I'm saying, it's the ones who started this aggression who wanted to play the division and they didn't make it. The West today is unique, the EU is unique today, and we also need to show the unity of the Croatian political scene that Croatia as part of the West is clearly on the side of freedom, on the side of democracy, on the side of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83692	You, too. Mr Miroslav Škoro will be the position of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is one topic I do not believe anyone will talk about in HS, so I will because I am also a representative in the City of Zagreb Assembly, and here, and the Rules of Procedure of the Zagreb Assembly is such that it is all by the philosophy of the fastest finger or who first applies. In fact, yesterday, an irony, as he said himself, Mr. Tomašević opened and let the cableman Sljema into operation. Otherwise, Mr. Tomašević and I were in one game in the local elections, so I remember very well that on 7 May 2021 he said after the election he would insist that the situation around the cable car was fully enlightened because he was so paid that he could make another Maximite stadium, he applied to DORH and USKOK in November 2020 and said that the cable was overpaid for at least 400 million kuna. The whole cord around that cableway began in 2017 when it was first mentioned in the city budget worth 27 million kuna, by the end of that year it was already over 110 million kuna, then it was over 250, so 350, God knows. Yesterday we found out, that's what Mr. Tomasevic told us, that it cost 537 million kuna without VAT. And some say it's going to be over 750 million kunas because they've funded four banks within 12 years, so when all this is done, there's going to be everything. What bothered me personally, and I am sorry that the mayor said that the City of Zagreb, he thought it was appropriate for the citizens of Zagreb to pay the tickets cheaper than the visitors. It means a price list for three categories of citizens, the most expensive one will be for those who do not live in Zagreb and have no show for it so that the adult guests of the City of Zagreb, our relatives, our friends will pay 75 kuna in one and 125 kuna, respectively, in both directions. I've Googled a taxi can come from a cable car to a Tomislav for example for 73 kunas, so if a taxi can translate three people why people would ever use that wire, I don't see any reason. For 150 kunas, 50 kuna each person can go up and down and come back whenever he wants. So not only will it be more expensive for guests but even children will have to pay the ticket using the Zagreb cable. The Republic of Croatia says that freedom, equality and national equality, peace, social justice, etc. The foundation. So where is there, especially with progressive opposition, a sense of equality. Zagreb has no money to allow visitors to visit the city of Zagreb under the same conditions. So I moved to Zagreb, now I have a Zagreb address, but I have a lot of relatives coming to me and not from Zagreb. What about the people from the Zagreb ring? Zagreb has no money for parent-teacher measure, but Zagreb has money for an action plan to accept asylum seekers in society. What logic is that? So we all know, and it's clear to everyone that this wire won't be able to operate without subsidies, it won't. Every year, we're going to have to pay and allocate 59 million kunas in any way to traffic. Why? It's big, it's inappropriate, but that's the way it is, and we all agreed that, unfortunately, it has to be. However, I think it is not good to continue to act on the principle of how one part of the green-left coalition behaves, so Zagreb is ours. No, Zagreb is a city for all of us, Zagreb is a city of all Croats. A lot of people have moved here, and I think a progressive opposition should be a progressive opposition, and I'm glad that Mrs. Bencic sits there, you have to be, you can't share the citizens, don't hold on to legal status. You are now the majority in the Zagreb Assembly, change the rules of procedure of the Zagreb Assembly. I'm supposed to run today, I don't know, a game between a congregation, a assembly, and Demeter Street. Don't be a progressive opposition in a way that is enough just to come in the shoes to the assembly, it's progressive and I welcome it, though, but I think it can do a lot more and don't share Croatian citizens. Anyone who comes to Zagreb should pay the same price as the one who lives in Zagreb for that damn cable car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83719	HSLS and Reformists will represent their views, of course, Mr. Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u83720	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. In these moments before our eyes, history repeats itself. We look at images similar to those of the beginning of World War II, and if we remember the relatively recent history of the Homeland War, we hear words almost identical to those of Hitler and Milosevic, didn't the Sudanese crisis in Czechoslovakia or the beginning of the war in Poland have the same reason? So-called genocide and terror over the German population in Gdanjska. We all know how this ended, and that it was the beginning of the 5 years of suffering and killing millions of people in Europe and the world, we are obviously prone to forgetting, and in particular to historical lessons with very practical, visible and indelible examples on European soil, but in our Croatian soil, in the context of almost yesterday's aggression on Croatia. HSLS takes a clear foreign policy position of the EU, shared by, among other things, the Croatian Government and not only because we are part of the free world, which we are guaranteed by the EU institutions and NATO alliance, that is... Partnerships, especially us, European liberals have shown great solidarity with Ukraine for many years, which has been a victim of war and occupation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was interesting to have this long silence of Pantovkats, as well as the so far planting of a false topic about sending our soldiers to Ukraine, which supported this action by Russia. The fact is that freedom is far more appreciated in dictatorship or if peace is directly threatened. Unfortunately, when peace and freedom are established, we tend to forget their value and we are less willing to protect them and defend them. At this point, the foundations of the liberal-democratic values of the international community, international agreements, the consequences of the attack on the fundamental concept of respect for international law and the obligation to attack peace and freedom, today Ukraine, is tomorrow who knows. We call on the Croatian government to open borders to Ukrainian refugees and offer every form of assistance to friendly Ukraine, as they provided support and assistance to us during the Homeland War. We stand by Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93985	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to inform you that I have just returned from a meeting in the Government of the Republic of Croatia with regard to what is currently happening in Ukraine and given the emerging situation and military aggression and the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, I point out the conclusions of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament which were unanimously adopted after the debate at the meeting on February 22nd when we were still hoping that an armed attack would not occur. The conclusions are next. The Committee expresses concern over the situation in Ukraine and supports the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine in its internationally recognised borders and peaceful dispute resolution. Secondly, the Committee firmly believes that the safe, stable and prosperous Ukraine is in the strategic interest of the entire European continent and condemns the violation of international law by the Russian Federation. Thirdly, the Committee will continue to closely monitor the situation in Ukraine and will discuss the situation in Ukraine and its immediate proximity accordingly. I therefore call on the chairman of the Committee of Gary Cappellia and the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy to propose, in a hasty manner, to the plenary session of the declaration which will clearly support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and to strongly condemn the military invasion and aggression of the Russian Federation. It will also call for the immediate end of all military activities to prevent major human casualties and material damage. Please be solid, we are a country that has passed a similar situation in the near past, had great and human casualties and material damage, we show at this point solidarity with the people of Ukraine and we believe and hope that military action will be stopped. Please be responsible, aware of what is happening, aware of the possible consequences, perhaps inconspicuous, at this point we cannot assess what can happen in view of the armed aggression that has taken place, and once again I call on you all to be very careful, to monitor what is happening and to be responsible for your duties and obligations. I'd like a colleague of Cappellia to call the board in a hurry. We will now move to the agenda, first item: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, First Reading, P.Z.E. No 243 The applicant is the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, so I would like to ask the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration of Juru Martinovic to present the bill. My colleague Skoro asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93986	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't know if you'll approve of me speaking at all since I wanted to relate to what you were saying in the opening on behalf of the Justice Club for Croatia, so here is the fact that yesterday was a debate whether or not I should know because it wasn't the first item of the agenda but precisely this point that you were talking about Russia's aggression in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93987	We have it now, you know that it's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but this one, given the situation, go ahead, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93988	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia for the simple reason that today's events are really far-reaching and I think that from history we can learn something especially from us as a people who went through something similar under the cover of democracy and the protection of human rights have been happening strange things. We all remember when the people were offered to choose between Barabbas and Jesus to choose Barabbas, it's democracy. We all remember it was September 1939. Under the cover of the protection of human rights, the minorities of their Hitler attacked Poland. We all remember that also under the same agenda, Slobodan Milosevic attacked the Republic of Croatia, and we heard in Ukraine this morning that, according to the Russian president, it was very much like what was said when it came to the Republic of '91. We believe that like the eyes of the Poles and the Croats were against the international community, so the eyes of our Ukrainian friends are against the international community and the Fair Croatian Club will support every initiative and welcome what you said to absolutely do everything possible to stop this war conflict and so that the Ukrainian people can live in peace. And thank you for the time you've given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93989	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93990	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I'm looking for a break because of the new situation. My colleagues and colleagues this is a sad day for Europe, for everyone, for the world order, for international law as we know it. I believe a lot of people felt the way we feel this morning September 1, 1939. When there was a similar aggression. Unfortunately, it's the only thing I can compare to what I can pull. This is a barbaric act, colleagues and colleagues, attacking a free, sovereign and independent state or at least that's how it should be. And we want the message to go to our friends in Ukraine and the whole world and from this pay phone. Since we know what it's like to be under similar aggression, very similar if you look at events in Ukraine in recent years, and especially in recent days, they're very similar to what happened in this space in 1991, and that message is, you're not alone, this message is that your flag, the Ukrainian flag, is no longer just your country's flag, it becomes a flag of freedom, it becomes a symbol of resistance to aggression and resistance to international rights offenders, human rights and everything on which the international order is based after victory over fascism 1945. We colleagues and colleagues must be aware of the moment, we must be aware that, as the President of the Parliament has said, such moves by the Russian Federation may have inconspicuous consequences, not only on Ukraine, not only on Eastern Europe, on the European continent, but on the whole world. And therefore allow me to finish with the words of the Scots not tempered with Ukraine and glory and will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93991	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I have another request, that's my colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93992	Thank you. First of all, I will report for an explanation of the break to warn that the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly must either be respected or must be changed. If yesterday it was impossible for MPs and MPs to speak in their explanation of a point that was not part of the agenda, then it is totally unacceptable that you now allow on behalf of a geopolitical issue to open the arguments of the break. That's the first thing I want to say. And the other thing, if it was necessary to talk about this conflict here now, then we should have prepared ourselves for it, and maybe we should have studied this geopolitical conflict a little bit, rather than a servant standing with weapons in the direction of Russia right now, if it was necessary to discuss it then we should have had a serious debate. I welcome what you have opened that debate through the board, but this is not the way any support should be provided at any time, at least not through the discussion of the break related to something that has nothing to do with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93993	You haven't been here since the beginning, so I invited the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy to bring in a text that will be current because the 22nd Russian aggression and military invasion of Ukraine did not happen, then we called for this not to happen, and now the committee has to adopt a new text that will pass on to the plenary session and we will have a debate on it and bring a document that will very clearly and strongly condemn military aggression and give support to Ukraine's territorial integrity. As for your attitude, you will explain it to the citizens and they will understand very well what you think and think. A colleague, Zekanovic, responded for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93994	Art. In 238, the Honorable President of HS thank you for accepting this one declaration that I have initiated among others, I hope he will soon see the light of day. And here I must warn my colleague Peovic of her grief we are not members of the Warsaw Treaty, but members of the NATO Pact, resulting in certain rights and obligations. And I wish I'd heard from your mouth a one-sacrifice drinker that the Ukrainians are experiencing today, not like this one hypocritical speech, actually what was expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93995	Thank you very much. So, one more thing, my colleague Peovic, I have immediately warned at the outset that this is about interventions that are contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but given the importance of the situation, this is not a common situation and this is something that can have really far-reaching consequences and I have allowed MPs to manifest themselves, as I have allowed you to do. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93996	In 238, it means a real demeaning of parliamentary representatives and MPs. You cannot say at the beginning of the session that you will now provide something that is past the Rules of Procedure. There were other situations where we might have opened up some discussions and there were many, many situations where we could have gone outside the Rules of Procedure, but don't cloud the water. So you're doing something that you as chairman here shouldn't be allowed to do, You do things that aren't according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder President: Comrade Peović, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93997	Thank you very much for your advice, but it's an extraordinary situation and of course I'm going to behave myself. Thank you, everyone. We have another request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93998	Dear President, here we are, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, seeking a break regardless of the opinion of our colleague, Peovic, in order to show their solidarity with the Ukrainian people once again. With a people who are one of the first people to recognise the independence of the Croatian state and who today unfortunately goes through what Croatia was going through during the Homeland War. This is one attack on the international recognition of a country that will obviously have far-reaching consequences for Europe as a whole, but solidarity should be shown in actions. Croatia should also help Ukraine humanitarianally, and should also think openly about the acceptance of Ukrainian refugees if there is a larger exodus of the Ukrainian population because it should be kept in mind that it has been a very close people, we should bear in mind that we have an extremely important and Ukrainian national minority in the Republic of Croatia that is clearly and loudly in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s and we should show our Christian side and receive people and take care of this invasion of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u93999	Thank you. We got it all figured out. I call on the Committee on Foreign Policy to hold a session in a hurry so that we can discuss and vote on the text of the declaration at the plenary session. I now call again on State Secretary Juru Martinovic's colleague to present the law at the inauguration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94000	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives and representatives, the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Recording and Rehabilitation shall regulate the establishment and keeping of criminal records, regulate the availability, giving and erasure of data from criminal records, and determine the Institute of Rehabilitation and prescribe deadlines for the rehabilitation of convicted persons. The law also regulates the international exchange of data from criminal records. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law to national legislation shall be implemented by the Directive amending the Council Framework Decision on the exchange of information on third-country nationals and on the European Information System of Criminal Records of the ECRIS and the Regulation establishing a centralised system for the identification of Member States, Member States which have data on convictions against third-country nationals and stateless persons to supplement the European Criminal Records Information System from 17 April 2019. The inclusion of that Directive and the Regulation will establish a centralised database on the identity of persons convicted of a criminal offence in an EU Member State and are third country nationals or stateless persons. This database will also include biometric data, fingerprints eventually and facial imagery to ensure the rapid and secure identification of convicted persons. There is also a presumption of interoperability of criminal records with other EU databases on the identity of persons. This increases the internal security of borders more early passenger control without a visa before they reach EU territory. The system for the protection of external borders against illegal migration is improved and the data exchange system for issued visas is improved. This legislative proposal further regulates the matter of regulating the authorising officer on data from the criminal record. The competent authorities in the field of social policy shall be provided with the right to use data in criminal records in proceedings relating to the protection of the rights of the child's interests. The courts shall be given a legal basis for taking into account criminal records and beyond criminal prosecution in criminal proceedings when it comes to offences with elements of violence or offences so severe that the sentence of imprisonment can be imposed for the offence. For example, these are violations of domestic violence, violations against public order and peace, abuse of intoxicating drugs or causing riots in sports competitions. In addition to this, courts shall also be able to gain insight into criminal records and civil matters of family legal protection. Employers who carry out regular contact with children if this is not regulated by a special regulation shall be able to request the publication of a specific information assurance from criminal records, thus increasing the possibility of protecting children from sexual abuse and exploitation. Respected deputies and MPs, the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation will ensure quality judicial cooperation between the EU authorities and provide mechanisms for better quality and greater protection of the rights of children's interests, while improving legal protection in civil matters under family law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94001	Here's a few replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94002	Thank you very much. We are aware that the criminal records and rehabilitations that we are only harmonising with the European directives in essence in Croatia are such that those who are convicted of serious acts are respected state secretaries in us, while the judiciary shows its muscles to much weaker ones. I therefore once again warn that the biggest mistrust of Croatian citizens in the Croatian judiciary is and that it is not enough just to rewrite the directives that give us and the EU regulations. The biggest problem of the Croatian state is the mistrust of people in 5 things, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. We've touched the bottom of uncertainty, economic downturn, economic downturn due to justice. any criminal or any other criminal [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94003	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94004	Your Honor, you have delivered a political speech here, but you have touched one particular thesis, which is that we prescribe persistently, hence the legal solutions offered by the EU. We had this law before we joined the EU. When we entered the EU, then, of course, we adapted our legislative framework to the possibility of exchanging data on convicted persons in EU Member States that relate to Croatian citizens. After that, we are now building together with our partners in the EU by sharing data on convicted third countries, so that we can make this space common to make the EU as secure as possible in legal and security terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94005	The next replica, and the pardoned violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94006	Thank you very much. He injured Article 238. The secretary of state because it is simply visible in the Republic of Croatia that it is not Olaf that ministers should not go to prisons, I don't know if they wouldn't be tried, if it wasn't for those pressures. However, I repeat my greatest confidence once again, regardless of criminal records, to rehabilitation, Croatia's biggest mistrust is in the judiciary. It doesn't matter what you're copying, what matters is what's in reality, what's in reality. It's a lack of trust in the judiciary because of unequal criteria. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94007	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Replica's esteemed representative Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94008	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Here we have heard from your introduction, so this is important for the Republic of Croatia about the visa regime, but also about Schengen. I'm sorry that here's my colleague Bulj leaving, but since he said that we're just copying the directives, it's obvious that he's not even familiar with the matter of today's amendments and the addition of the law, so I'm going to ask a question in this direction, and besides the introduction of the directive, these amendments and additions will, therefore, be brought into line with certain things we've seen over the past period of law enforcement that would be good for him to change. First of all, I think about the authority, specifically related to social policy, relating to the civil part, i.e. to the protection of children's health and safety. So I'd like to ask you in that direction, so you say specifically what these changes and additions will bring about this particular clue and we've also seen that the Attorney General's Office for Children He commended it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94009	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94010	Well, here's the esteemed representative, so it's hard for me right now in this replication to respond to all the goals we've tried to achieve, the social objectives with this law. But every time a procedure is conducted on any law in the criminal sphere, we as a society send a message that we want to arrange this procedure. So society has an interest and reason to have a quality register of convicted persons in criminal proceedings. The legislator set it through this law. As a member of the EU, we have a strong need because we arrange a common EU space in this regard to have quality cooperation with them. Of course, it is very important, I think that it can be quite simple, easily understood that there is a stressed need, a security but also another to exchange information about convicted persons from third countries entering the EU border area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94011	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Court practice shows according to the State Statistics Institute data that during 2020, out of 99 perpetrators of sex delicacies to the harm of children, 44 were sentenced to prison sentences up to 1 year. So, their rehabilitation comes after six years. The Ombudsman’s office sent us a comment, and you replied that you had noted a suggestion that might be a good idea to install. I'm interested in your opinion. So, they believe that data on rooms that are legally convicted of sexual violence against a child is kept permanent. So, there's no way that any professional rehabilitation after any period will be deleted from the criminal record.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94013	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94014	Dear Representative, this is a topic that is being discussed in all democratic societies, and of course we are, too, as an idea, of course, with one goal of one important constitutional social value, which is to protect children in the best possible way. Such an idea is a profession, a human rights association, so they stand up to it in a way that also condemned persons are people whose human rights must be protected. There are standards, so in criminal law theory, how long can the legal consequences of a powerful conviction last? They are bound, of course, to the height of the sentence that has been imposed. And now to get out of context only one structure questionable is, I'm not going to say it's inadmissible, but it's questionable from the aspect of people's equality before the law and in that sense we have this thing constantly present in professional circles and I'm not excluding that it can be introduced in some foreseeable time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94015	Time. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter I don't have any other business option and I'm risking the warning I'm about to get, but just under the cover of human rights democracy today, there's been an aggression against Ukraine. So sometimes even this democracy and human rights, these syntagms that know how to hide very bad intentions need a little help, and I still think it would be good to think about getting them into some sort of permanent record. And now for me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94017	Here's how you said it yourself. Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Željko, and a pardon reply. The turtle of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94018	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me. In fact, the law mentions the ECRIS information system, mentioning common communication, communication infrastructure. Tomorrow we have a debate on the Cybersecurity Act and my question is whether it means that our systems will have to pass certification by a new system that will be adopted tomorrow or whether there will be a single communication infrastructure that will be separated from other data exchange infrastructures. In fact, it also states in the law that EU members will not be able to access individual bases locally, but EU members will also supply data to a single base. I don't understand what the difference is. Are we sending all data to a single base or just as requested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94019	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94020	And I must tell you that I am not an expert in IT, but what this law seeks is unquestionably achieved, and this is a quick exchange of information on the fact that a citizen of a member of the EU is legally convicted. So and of course all the other communication tools are auxiliary tools to achieve this important goal. So we are now exchanging these data by e-mail with the Member States, whether, therefore, there is an increasing and greater need from the Member States to provide them with information from Croatia on the condemnation of our persons because they are seeking employment in the EU. Therefore, in this respect, communication tools will likely be improved so that Member States, through certain institutions, are likely to be able to access our base of course restricted and limited and recorded. Here, I said the most important goal is what I said, and all this rest is I'd say communication tools to achieve that goal, a quick exchange of data on convicted persons in order to society protected them from them. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94021	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94022	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State sees that these amendments to the law, I will quote from the text, introduces the employer's obligation to request, in cases where labour relations are based or are entrusted with a business whose conduct involves regular contacts with children, the issue of a special conviction on data from the criminal record in order to verify prior condemnation for such offences. Yesterday in the debate we also mentioned assistants in the class and we stressed that it was quite difficult to get assistants in the course because the process of collecting documents is complicated. Here we see another document that will be needed so just please explain to the public when we make this register exactly how it will look or how long it will take one person or company to get one of these things, just so people know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94023	So, I said in the opening speech, but in some reply to the replica that we primarily did these amendments and amendments to the law to adapt and achieve one functionality in the exchange of data with EU members, but when we opened up the gap of this law, we then improved some of the things that were needed in society. One of these things is to allow access to the database not only criminal and criminal courts but also civil courts, especially when they judge matters relevant for the protection of children as such. Here it is taught to enable companies, companies, associations that employ people in jobs that involve contact with children, we will enable relaxed access to our base. Of course, in a way that we don't reveal people's data, that they can't get all the data but selectively and under the control of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94024	Next replica, respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94025	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I must say that I welcome this part where practical concerns were actually taken into account, so what the practice has shown has also been done in this direction of change. We also see these changes that the permanent services of courts are given certain powers that they have not had so far, and these are actually enabling citizens to do as many jobs as possible in their environments as possible in relation to their dealings with courts. The possibility of using e-Citizens is also further introduced. I welcome this direction to strengthen permanent services and digitise procedures and I am interested in whether the ministry continues to intend to strengthen public services and extend the use of the e-Citizen system to as many activities as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94026	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94027	The esteemed representative, therefore the system of e-citizens, so informing the system, the judicial system is something that we seek, therefore, which is a social, social goal in order to speed up processes, speed up procedures, but also to facilitate communication for citizens. As far as permanent services are concerned, I think you've thought of them, so in the last five years, I'd say how much I've been following the Ministry of Justice's actions and now the Ministry of Justice and the Government, we've decided everywhere where the need to leave the permanent services of municipal courts in order for citizens to be able to do their basic rights primarily in the civil sphere, in the land-book sphere, in their place. Now we've gone one step further in the last amendments to the law, and we've said that we'll send them where there aren't any of these family departments, where there won't be any of them that we'll be doing office days in permanent services in order to be tried in a place where people live, so the judges will have an obligation to go there. Not invite people. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94028	Next replica, the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94029	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State I think this coordination is necessary because we are a member of the EU and it is also necessary for security in our country, but also throughout the EU. And I also welcome this stronger use of biometric data according to the Law on biometric data that we have. What I am curious about is whether we have compared the deadlines for rehabilitation and whether we follow what is also the practice in other European countries or we are stepping down to a greater or smaller extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94030	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94031	And so, I have to say for a little while now, given that not all lawyers, we're not all lawyers, so I am, so the legal order keeps records of it, keeps records of it, and so that after a while we can say that the legal consequences of the conviction no longer work. The last one to remain as a legal consequence is actually a record of your conviction. Rehabilitation means full rehabilitation of the effects of a crime in such a way that a person has the right to be called not to be convicted as others and is deleted from the records as such. So, the deadlines I would say are very strongly linked to the severity of the crime for which the person is convicted, and next to that, to the height of the sentence that was imposed on him in that situation. I think that our right is a European continental right and that it does not bounce in the criminal sphere and has not otherwise regulated that matter from EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94032	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the replicas with this. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the registered club of Croatian sovereigns and respected representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94033	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Here is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law which essentially needs to harmonize our legal practice, and also normably with decisions or the European Parliament and Council Directive, and in principle we as a club of Croatian sovereigns have no significant objections, we have absolutely no objections in this regard, simply in the interest of the implementation of everyday legal procedures. Our country must coordinate this, our judiciary must have direct insight into all these actions of other states and its citizens, even here it is clear how you said it stands out and it is a useful opportunity to see the criminal records of third-country nationals. It is useful and will speed up the processes, our judiciary will be further equipped with the possibilities of direct insight into the state of condemnation in order to facilitate its decisions legally relevant, and we can only clearly expect that the whole process in Croatia in the delegation of the Ferend is improved in terms of additional, but that is the internal law of the Republic of Croatia, those are our laws that regulate the issue of running, the issue of acting at local levels, even in this assembly, so that we do not have doubts and that the professional services of the Parliament and the professional services of the Government would not be in a conflict over the positions, for example now Darka Horvat, but it is a question of de lege ferenda. And we believe that it is your duty to give us a proposal of such a law that will make it impossible for people like me to do so a year ago and to propose against whom a powerful criminal charge has been filed for serious crimes does not have any possibility of either running or acting as political, representative functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94034	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94035	Here we talk about amendments to the law on the consequences of convictions of criminal records and rehabilitation. I said earlier in the replica that we are essentially just harmonising this with EU regulations and directives, otherwise we have become classical copyists and it is not good. I know you do not need to invent hot water and that the triba something that is good to accept, implement, but when we talk about rehabilitations and criminal records then we must touch what in Croatia in the nation is the biggest mistrust, and the biggest mistrust in the judiciary, unequal, without any criteria, mainly at this time of the covid crisis, but also before. And in the covid crisis we won't even talk about it time will show what's going on. However, we here as people's representatives and representatives must send messages in a language that the people will recognize. If a politician is high-ranking because of ten million kunas of disappearance of something guilio potatoes as much as it should now, I don't think there's as many potatoes as there should be,...I don't know what alternative measure he's going to find now. So these are messages, mistrust in the judiciary, unequal practice, guessing large, guessing teleopers, guessing everyone except a small man. And every law and justice must be for a man, so we bring laws here for a man, and not adapt to large systems because of that is both multinational companies and stakeholders. So when we talk about laws, regardless of whether this is a criminal record, is it rehabilitation, convicted persons, exchanges of convicted persons in the Republic of Croatia have enormous mistrust, and this is the main judicial distrust in the judiciary. And that's why we have to put our heads down. Or in front of someone? In particular HS, MPs must speak the language of the people. The expertise and philosophy of stolen politicians has led us to this. Well, it wasn't some peasant, a hard worker, a hard, ordinary citizen, so the laws were written by probably respected lawyers, big lawyers, judges. Who wrote the laws? That people have the highest confidence in the judiciary. And why are we here by corruption, at the bottom? Why is the whole country's network corrupt? Why do we work like that? Well, that's not the fault of peeking at me, it's not. And that's why those who make the laws, prescribe the laws, who prepare the laws, they must be applicable, not just prescribed. And then at the end of the term, we come up with 800 laws, 800 amendments and the addition of laws we have implemented European directives, European regulations, and finally what is the implementation? Nothing. And like us, we are a successful Parliament in that term. So how can we be a successful Parliament, if someone in my Sinjo, I'm going to start from my son's 1990s, he doesn't have five kunas in his pocket, suddenly a billionaire. How? It's the owner of everything. How? Let him explain it to me. Lotto didn't win, they don't have entrepreneurship skills. What happened? Out of great wisdom, great wits, we buy modern glasses to see better, to see if we're smarter than anything else, and basically everything has shone down. And the people see it as a state of society. And We are those who reflect in fact what the people have chosen. And that's why when the executive power comes in here, legislator, I agree that they must make it professional, but I am interested in the effects of everything, the effects of the so far. Not like us, we're happy, we're overjoyed because we signed the law. We've rewritten the law! Only when I pass Zagora, will I come from Cvik, will I head for Drnis, my Sinj, Dalmatinka Sinjska, we will head for Imotsky, Imostroy. We're on our way. So who wrote the laws? It's not a people's letter! Well, it's not that typewriter. That people and that worker were in the trench. Here's today I see this case of Ukraine. He was in a trench when, unfortunately, NATO and America said Milosevic you have a month to win this Croatia, so let Yugoslavia be. Remember that time? A month to take us down. Then the heroes of Vukovar and the other defenders who rose up stopped the embargo at them, the embargo so that we could be rational. We didn't have many friends at the time. And at that time the rats were tested. And what did the judiciary do for that Dalmatian worker? Nothing. Nothing. Those women weren't getting paid. And now they owe them their wages. He's been through a bankruptcy procedure. It's been sold. I'm not talking. I mean, it's gone. So much has been destroyed, and the judiciary is wrong, believe me, the laws. They're guilty and responsible, and politics are laws. However, what about implementation? All people care about is the exercise. Why mistrust in the judiciary? So there has to be a reason why? Why is it corruption? Well, there's got to be some reason. Why do companies that are under a political puck of some kind work at a higher level? Where the competition is, everything is ruined. So once again, what is good should be implemented. People are interested in the exercise believe me, they don't care how we're dressed, who we've been drinking coffee with, whether we're well decorated, if we have a hand on our hearts. They don't care about that anymore. Everyone lives in Croatia. Croatia has two wings, left and right. In my village, it's hard to live both left and right, if we have a problem. The differences are good, but corruption, crime and connection to the judiciary is the biggest problem, the biggest problem. And the effects we're interested in are respected secretary of state. The people are interested exclusively in the effects of the regulations prescribed in Brussels and the Directives. Here's my buddy Brcic from my neighborhood. What are the people interested in? Will they be interested in this implementation? They're interested in the effects. They want to know if justice is equal to all of them. No, we all know that. And that's why we have an emigration, a demographic downturn. Here I always say in my Zagora, from Krka, Neretva, if we are to take this fall and Cetinski near Drniš, Kninski kraj, Vrgorski kraj, Cetinski kraj, zazaj Kaštela so look at the demographic fall, the breakdown. And trust me most of all, that's been influenced by a lack of confidence in the judiciary. Most of all! The laws are excellent and the reality is desperate. That's what we should be working on. That's what to do, that people in the system, I had an example, when I was tried with Stjepan Mesic, that I insulted him as a perjurer. I repeat, he is a perjurer and an elemental disaster of the Croatian people. He's mad at me because I canceled the office and he sued me. You know who the judge was? The daughter of the man he suggested to the Supreme Court. I asked for an exception,... She gave up now because I accidentally found out it was so connected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's such a complex pyramid system, and now they've named a new judge and everything's fine. I'm not following that, let's... For a hundred years as far as I'm concerned, Stipe Mesic was a perjurer and stayed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, that's less important now. People have a mistrust in a system that politics directly created according to its system of values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94036	A debate will follow on behalf of SDP's representative, Michel Jaksic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94037	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good afternoon, everyone. What we were communicating on yesterday's Justice Committee will be repeated on behalf of the SDP club. And today we support these legislative changes, taking into account that it is about adapting to European directives and harmonising our judicial system with everything that is the EU's gains, because we simply believe that even because of these events today which we see as this kind of integration and takeover of good practices, especially when it comes to the spread of crime in the course of globalisation, that they are simply a good path that means a lot to the Republic of Croatia. And of course, it is very important for us to have a special item that will, in a much more appropriate way, protect our children about which there has also been a lot of debate in this assembly right here in this term. Of course, we would also like to add that, as we have always supported compliance with European legal regulations, that we believe that this is not enough and that for much greater steps and for the return of trust in the Croatian judiciary, it will not be enough just to prescribe European directives, to comply with European gains, regardless of what is sometimes useful, because simply people do not have a negative perception of us and our judiciary because we have signed down the directives, but because we simply haven't done much in Croatia today in an adequate way, we have not dealt with them adequately. But it's for another debate. We support these changes, and we hope that they will contribute to the degree of security, especially of our smallest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94038	Next is a debate on behalf of the "For Fair Croatia" Club of Representatives Miroslav Škora.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. EU directives and regulations should be known and should always be reminded of this, so the directives are something we can discuss, we need to implement in our legislation. Regulations if I'm not mistaken, we're just applying. I'm going to listen to Parliament attorney and colleague Mira Bulja, and I'm going to try to speak in a people's language, and I'm not a lawyer, but in light of this law, I would concentrate most on that head of three that talks about the rehabilitation process and the right to rehab. Of course anyone can make a mistake, of course it would be good for anyone who wrongs to discover, sanction him, punish him, and, of course, that person has the right to the rehabilitation process, and that is, Articles 18 and 19, etc. In Chapter Three, they predict. However, it should also be noted that the implementation of these laws and legal solutions should always go towards such solutions, to be clear to those who implement them and to those over whom they are implemented, and to be as fair as possible. So here we have a situation that in many cases the judges in our country pronounce so-called. conditional penalties or penalties with a time limit of trial. And those penalties, in accordance with the caselaw and the statistics, when it comes to parole, have a clause that you must not commit the same or similar offence within two years, or a criminal offence, or otherwise go to prison for a period that the judge has set for you. In accordance with this law, someone who has been found in criminal proceedings and sentenced legally to the maintenance of the sentence, for example, 10 months within three years of the completion of the maintenance and the sentence is rehabilitated. I'd like state secrets to correct me if I'm wrong, but that's the way it is. However, someone for whom the judge has assessed that he has not committed such a serious crime that he cannot be sanctioned by fines or parole, so with a trial deadline, if he gets two years of trial and if he has a three-year rehabilitation process, he will be rehabilitated in five years. So, someone who's been in prison will be in three years and this deadline of not knowing two, three, five, seven, ten months to a year, and someone who's therefore assessed as a minor threat will be longer in the criminal record. I think we should consider it, I think we should find a way to fix it. I've already asked you the Secretary of State, so I've asked you a question in a way that replicates your exposure when it comes to sexual violence against the child. And I understand, we all understand both human rights associations and the desire to do to everyone as much as possible to protect their human rights and I think that Croatia does not predominate, but sometimes exaggerates. But that's right. However, I will repeat again, according to the Croatian Statistics Institute in 2020. In the year 44 perpetrators of 99 of them due to the act of sexual delinquency to the harm of the child were sentenced to prison one year and their rehabilitation occurs after six years and he, after the end of that period, is still able, for example, to adopt a child, become a foster parent, to receive a student for exchange in his home, or to work at jobs such as kindergarten, school, children's home, any other job involving direct contact with children, and I find it inadmissible. You can call me now, but it's my right and I think most of us think so. And that's why exactly the Office of the Ombudsman for Children has sent a comment that sexual violence against a child is kept permanently in the criminal record, and we need to advocate it, for that there is no amnesty and rehabilitation. Because look, when it comes to human rights and democracy, so look what's going on with us, there are many dangerous intentions behind these big words. Yes, we were already talking about protecting human rights and protecting the minority of Germany in '39. So we got aggression II. World war. Is it necessary to speak and repeat, and perhaps it is not from worse that under the protection and cover of human rights and democracy, the rebellion was carried out in the Republic of Croatia which was then protected by the JNA Corps that it caused aggression, open aggression on Croatia and that we had 14,912 dead, that we had 1,571 missing, that we had 236 billion kuna damage, 180,000 homes were destroyed, 25% of Croatian economies, 550,000 refugees, 380 sacral objects destroyed and under the cover of protection of human rights. The same thing happened today, today the Russian president said that Ukraine is full of neo-Nazis, we were full of the same neo-Nazis. And afterwards, a representative of the Serb national minority under the cover of democracy and human rights that we protect in HS as a coalition partner of the HDZ participates in power and comes and tells the general of the victorious Croatian army you got away with it. It's democracy in Croatia, it's human rights. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, I've strayed a little from the subject, but I know why, you know why. There are some things that need to be wise. I invite you to do two things that are necessary, along with your fellow MPs. First, the process of rehabilitation is made so that people don't stay in criminal records longer than necessary, especially when they're paroled, but also when they're convicted of certain acts for which we all here estimate that they're so severe in nature as sexual abuse of children, they're never deleted from that record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94040	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Nikola Mazara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94041	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. So so far, in this debate about changes and additions to the draft law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, we could hear certain thoughts, we could hear things that are related to the very point of the agenda, and we could hear a little bit of something that is not related to the agenda itself, or to the point of the agenda, but we could hear in some way and a certain ignorance of the matter itself that we are discussing today, either on a feeble and half-knowledge. I would say first of all what is practically said is that today it is about amendments to the laws on the adoption and implementation of the directive and the EU regulation itself, which is only one small part true. If we look at this law, it has been in force in the Republic of Croatia since 2012. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2013, and on the date of its entry into the EU, and on the date of its entry into the EU, and on the date of its entry into force, and on the date of its entry into the EU, and on the date of its entry into force, and on the date of its entry into force of this Agreement, and on the date of its entry into force of this Agreement, and on the date of its entry into force. First of all, regarding the criminal record of all persons involved in the application procedure not only for the selection of representatives in HS but also for the selection of representatives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. So, at that time, the Republic of Croatia had a law that allowed both through criminal and criminal proceedings to keep records and to be implemented in national legislation. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation are primarily due to the creation of a new updated legislative framework in the field of international exchange of data from criminal records in the EU, which enables more secure identification of convicted and wanted persons of third-country nationals. This certainly extends electronic tools in the exchange of data on criminality in the EU area. As a state, we have therefore had a record of legally convicted persons through criminal and criminal proceedings and used these data, but now as a full member of the EU we are certainly involved in a new period, I would say not only advanced digital transformations and digital revolutions, but also increased security and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the EU, but also protection through a common central system of criminal records, first of all, through these changes and additions to all those persons who have committed a crime and convicted for this crime in the area of EU member states and who come from third countries or are without citizenship. The following Republic of Croatia will fulfil not only the obligation to exchange data effectively from criminal records with other EU Member States, but will also raise the security of its citizens but also from the position and perspective of the Republic of Croatia of those amendments are important for the visa regime as well as for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area, and thus these amendments and amendments to the laws have additional importance for the implementation of the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. What I've said, too, is that we may have heard a little bit of flatulence or not enough precisely in the previous discussions that this proposal is only about this part of the amendment and the addition of the law. However, the application of the law also identified certain doubts and insufficient regulation of the authorising officers on data and criminal records and data procurement procedures, and also accessed their amendments and additions in such a way as to prescribe that the Ministry of Justice in charge of the area of justice provides courts and public lawyers with direct access to the data entered in the criminal record in relation to the person for whom a criminal prosecution has been initiated or a criminal offence is committed with elements of violence or offence for which a prison sentence may be imposed. It is extremely important that direct access to data from criminal records is provided to certain competent authorities, but particularly in the field of social policy and courts in the field of family and legal protection related to the protection of children's rights and interests, which was seen and welcomed by the Ombudsman's Office for Children during the e-consultation. And we also at the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcome these changes and additions that will allow not only in the criminal sphere, but also in civil law, i.e. in the protection of the safety of children's health, so that all the data necessary for each individual case can be obtained. Similarly, certain legal persons who are able to organise and carry out activities that involve regular contacts with children, and who are not in a law regulating their activity, the legal basis for searching for data and criminal records, should be allowed to, in the interests of the protection of children from sexual abuse and exploitation, with the consent of the data subject. We also welcome the amendments to the provisions that will provide the courts with a legal basis for looking into criminal records and beyond criminal prosecution in civil matters of family and legal protection most often related to the protection of the rights of children's interests as I said earlier, but also to acts of violence or offences so severe that prisons can be imposed, and most often it is about violations of domestic violence, violations of public order and peace, abuse of intoxicating drugs or causing riots in sports competitions. From the above mentioned Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept the proposed draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Records and Rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94042	Next is the debate on behalf of Attorneys' Club of the Homeland Movement of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94043	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, Just a few allegations from the official text. This law will firstly regulate the international exchange of data from criminal records in such a way as to bring it into line with the EU Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 amending the Council Framework Decision on the exchange of data on third-country nationals and on the European Criminal Records Information System, etc. etc. We see absolutely nothing questionable here, and let this record be brought into line with the European record, let this information, as the respected secretary of state said in response to my reply, be available to both legal and physical persons, of course, with a good and proper explanation of the request itself. In accordance with point (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: I like that very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments to the law directly access data from criminal records shall be ensured to courts and in the field of family and legal protection relating to the protection of the rights and interests of children. It is certainly necessary to welcome the decision to introduce children's rights into this law in order to prevent potential avoidance of responsibility for actions committed against the youngest and most vulnerable. The Ombudsman's Office also welcomed the proposed amendments to the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, and the Home Movement Club agrees with them as well. It is certainly good for the courts in civil matters to provide family and legal protection related to the protection of the rights and interests of children with a legal basis for direct insight into criminal records and the possibility that competent authorities in civil matters may seek data from the criminal record. Likewise, I have also mentioned in the replica we also welcome the introduction of the employer's obligation that, in cases where a working relationship is being established or entrusted with a business whose conduct involves regular contacts with children, the employer must request the issue of a specific conviction on data from the criminal record for the purpose of verifying prior convictions for such offences. It's pathetic that no one, no parent wants his child to come into contact with a person who has already been convicted of crimes committed against children and this is absolutely to greet. What I'd like to ask is in Art. The 7th says it's true. 14th paragraph 1 is amended and reads, “A person can apply for himself in the seat of a municipal court or in his permanent service or via the e-Citizens system for the issue of a certificate from a criminal record for the purpose of running for representative in HS.” If I am not mistaken, the certificates from the criminal record are not only necessary for running to the Assembly but also for running for all bodies of municipal, city and regional self-government, and I think that this should be pointed out in the final text of this legislative proposal. As far as public debate is concerned, an interesting position, given that the law in the procedure is an opportunity to propose amendments to Article 4. 19th in a way that the rehabilitation or eradication of convictions from the criminal record in the case of a conviction to which the perpetrator of a criminal offence has been released and the sentence of sentence as a warning measure is set out in new indents 6 and 7 which would be prescribed that the same event takes place over the period of one year from the day of the date of the judgment of law which the perpetrator was released from the sentence or the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the expiry of the verification of the sentence. It certainly is worth thinking about. What we're going to see here is that the most respected Mr. Bulj and I have been reported to be very valuable in the follow-up to this debate especially when we mention so-called. third countries, these are non-EU countries. We know for a fact that there are many so-called so-called "in BiH". disgruntled boys who committed serious acts and, of course, used their dual citizenship to escape from the Croatian judiciary or from the punishment they were either legally or unlawfully convicted or were actually only suspects. On that behalf, the Association of State Movement Representatives also sent enquiries to the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs to both ministries, and asked how many Croatian citizens, whether with Croatian, whether with double Croatian and Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship, are currently on the list of wanted persons for the purpose of performing acts from the domain of economic or any other crime, and are presumed to be on BiH territory. I am sure that the number is impressive and that the Croatian public has the right to know who all of these people are. It is, of course, very famous people, whether they are from media, sports, economic or any other miles, and living for even decades on BiH territory, they are slightly out of the public's focus and I believe it would be good to remind the Croatian public once again who all these people are and what they are suspected of or convicted of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94044	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94045	Dear Vice-President of the HS, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard several times, as we have been able to read the proposal for a law that is before us is changed and complemented by the fact that a new legislative framework has been created in the field of international data exchange in the EU, which enables more secure identification of convicted and wanted persons of third-country nationals. It is an EU directive which, like any other Member State, must be introduced into its national legislation, and therefore there is not much to be debated. The proposal regulates international data exchange and allows for the direct application of the EU regulation on the establishment of a centralised system of data on judgments against third-country nationals and those without citizenship. All of this is therefore necessary for the EU visa regime, for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area and for the security of EU citizens, as well as for our citizens. It is not irrelevant to mention that these changes include some measures in the interest of protecting children from sexual abuse and exploitation, but we do know that our judiciary's reactions to the application of sexual delicacies to children are often not appropriate, the proceedings are long-term, and the fines result in short-term storage of judgment data in criminal records. The rehabilitation event when the perpetrator's criminal past is no longer possible, opens up the possibility that the perpetrator of the sex delinquent to harm the child comes back into contact with children in a way that he could not before rehabilitation. Therefore, we would like to note that it is necessary to prevent the rightful perpetrators from contacting children again, which requires the permanent storage of data on condemnation in cases of sexual violence against children. In addition to this note, given that the Committee on Justice has written in their report without discussion unanimously supported these amendments to the law and since it is a matter of harmonisation with the EU, the Social Democrats will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94046	Thank you very much. Before we move to an individual debate, I would like to inform you that today at 13.00 a session of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which will discuss and propose to the HS the Declaration on Ukraine, will be held on the same agenda, and tomorrow we would discuss this point as the only item of the agenda at the plenary session and vote on it, given the current situation, the team is more necessary. As I was saying, we're going to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Jure Bourkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94047	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation was passed on 27 December 2012, and entered into force on 1 January 2013, so far before the EU and all that can be heard is essentially the law on amending the law because the EU is forcing us to do so. The law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation is the law of the criminal sphere, governing the keeping of records of convicted persons and the monitoring of the time limits necessary for rehabilitation. In order to bring this subject a little closer to our public, it is necessary to clarify the concepts of the law. So are the legal consequences of a person, so-called. a status criminal measure which, although not a criminal penalty, applies by force of the law to certain persons convicted of a criminal offence. Conditions for the regulation of legal consequences are laid down by the Constitution, Art. 30 and the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, and only for criminal offences which, in so doing, must be severe and particularly unfair, and that they represent no later than 10 years after the suspended sentence of imprisonment, fines paid, the execution of work for the common good, i.e. the expiry of the period of verification from a conditional conviction. The criminal record shall be carried out for natural and legal persons who are legally.../incomprehensible/... for criminal offences convicted by law in the Republic of Croatia and outside the Republic of Croatia, provided that the Ministry is aware of these criminal offences. The criminal record contains a list of legally convicted persons for the offences of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child. The criminal record shall be established and maintained by the Ministry of Justice, which shall also be the central authority for the exchange of such data with other countries. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, the right to rehabilitation shall be subject to a criminal offence which has been convicted or has been released after a period of time and under the conditions laid down by this law. The perpetrator of a criminal offence is considered a person who has not committed a criminal offence, and its rights and freedoms cannot differ from the rights and freedoms of persons who have not committed a criminal offence. On condition that the perpetrator is not again convicted of a new crime, rehabilitation takes place under the law, when these deadlines expire. 20 years from the day of a sustained, outdated or pardoned sentence in the sentence of a long-standing law. 15 years from the day of a 10-year prison sentence, 10 years from the day of a three-year sentence, 5 years from the day of a three-year sentence and 3 years from the day of a one-year sentence. Rehabilitation for perpetrators convicted of criminal offences against sexual abuse and child abuse occurs by force of the law over the course of the twice mentioned deadlines. So it's all going down. The law has changed twice so far, and we can say it freely for us, not for the EU. In 2015 the amendments prescribed specificities in the procedure of requesting and obtaining a special conviction from the criminal record, in order to ensure the conduct of the control of the conviction of persons who are candidates in the election of representatives in HS and to enable the conduct of the process of running for MPs in HS. Amendments to 2017 set out specificities in the procedure of requiring and obtaining a special conviction from the criminal record in order to ensure the conduct of the control of the conviction of persons, who are candidates, this time, in local elections, i.e. the elections for members of the representative body, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and for the municipal chief, mayor, mayor, mayor, their deputy, as well as the deputy municipal chief, mayor, mayor, members of national minorities, or members of the Croatian people. Now the law is changed and complemented primarily because a new updated legislative framework has been created in the field of international data exchange from criminal records in the EU to allow for a safer identification of convicted third-country nationals. It will also allow the establishment of a centralised system for the identification of Member States that have data on judgments against third-country nationals and stateless persons to supplement the European criminal record information system. Given that certain doubts have been observed in the application of the law and the lack of regulation of the authorising officer on data from criminal records and data procurement procedures, their amendments and additions have been accessed. The Ministry of Justice shall ensure that courts and state attorneys have direct access to the data entered in the criminal record. All the expensive, positive law, the law that strengthens our judiciary and the law that, and our citizens, will be more accessible and fairer judiciary. Thank you. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94048	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. You were not in the hall, nor in that one, nor did I see you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94049	Thank you very much. When we talk about these laws, i.e. on rehabilitation and convicts, and in compliance with European regulations, as I said in the name of the club, that harmonising that the directives, of course, are some kind of obligation, but I will repeat, in the mistrust of the judiciary, I will repeat that forever. The biggest mistrust in the Republic of Croatia is in the judiciary. Therefore, whatever we adopt, regardless of applying or harmonising our laws with European laws and any other laws, I must always look at the effects. What's gonna happen to that? Are we even going to be able to implement all this? The years of rehabilitation are also listed here, for how many years, but our people have enormous mistrust in the judiciary and these effects are catastrophic. We have literally due to incompetence in economic terms, we have the collapse of many companies that would be competitive, mostly Croatian companies, mostly now that we're looking at the construction sector, and that's all wrong in terms of the judiciary, because ultimately, the deals that happen through public procurement, agreements, jobs, so we're, here we are now building agglomerations, systems, so we don't literally have any strong companies, and sometimes we have almost every region. I can count from... until... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's always about the effects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not enough to rewrite, it's not a good message just here, we remember the minister, we're not going to name now because now we have a problem with ministers, which is the judiciary. who, who persecutes our judiciary, i.e. DORH, I've always thought of peeling potatoes. Now imagine how much it would take for the kumpir to do all the things that the Triba police are investigating and what they condemn and how it's going to work. What kind of message to that grandmother who was selling onions at some market so she closed her product, so she closed up for a month in a holding cell or in a prison. So inequality, inequality. With these laws, the legal frameworks that we are now essentially harmonising with the EU, we are essentially in line with their legislation. We don't actually achieve anything if it's not real in implementation. The most important is the implementation, the implementation is the key to everything. How will we be pleased if, let's say, Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic writes exactly what entrepreneurs will get incentives. So in agriculture, so, but that's the justice system that has to react equally to everyone. We're talking about this case with these last problems because corruption has mastered everything and that's the key to the problem, demographic emigration, mistrust. We have to build a judiciary. As I said, the people did not write the laws, and the laws must be passed for a man, not for certain stakeholders. Therefore, all the laws we adopt are important effects, and especially when we talk about harmonising with European laws, and in particular about the judiciary. And this is a return to the trust of the people, and we MPs have to talk about it while professional services, ministries, competent institutions have to coordinate it, but no one mentions state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues the effects of these laws, the effects of the judiciary. All amendments to the laws we had on the judiciary as many times as we changed it, harmonized with European directives, no effects, anywhere. I can personally tell you this since I've been mayor of Sinj City, I don't think the inspection has been for 30 years ever since the State Inspectorate came to Sinj City, any topic I've encouraged by solving problems they're sending me an inspectorate. I think I have an envelope of oral warrants. I have no idea what they're writing anymore. So they look me through the political eyes, look me through the mayor's eyes no matter what political options, that's just one example. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94050	We have one replica of the respected representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94051	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Bulj. Here is how I cited it in my presentation, and I would ask you a brief comment, that people will trust in the Croatian judiciary when every few days almost every few days we all see through social networks how the convicted perpetrators of the crimes are entertained in Herzegovina who have escaped from the Croatian judiciary. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94052	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94053	So I can't trust myself, which is why in research, the judiciary is always the biggest mistrust in the judiciary, and that's the key problem. Of course we have to work on it. Directly rewrite laws and read the law and we voted it here and that's it. We've come here with ties, suits, nicely decorated raised hands. I think we as a council must be a lot louder on this implementation, meaning executive authorities, which is the implementation. And not that it happens that the man who was convicted goes to Herzegovina, dances on disks in any other country. And what are these messages, what are these messages? What is the message that we have a vice-president of the government who exactly says who will be given to a Croatian Serb citizen who will receive support? And you guys back it up, let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94054	Thank you very much. The next one will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94055	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker. This is quite already said, as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation and the reason why we are going at this moment to these amendments and additions, which is, above all, the harmonisation with the eu directive for the exchange of data from criminal records, especially for convicted persons from third countries. What I would just like to say firstly is that this law was passed as a basic law in 2012 and entered into force on 1 January 2013. He's had two changes so far, the first one was 2015. In order to regulate the issuing of applications and the issuing of a criminal record certificate for candidates for representatives in HS, and then 2017. He also experienced an amendment and an addition to the same purpose, but only for candidates running for local elections. I think it is unquestionable that this harmonisation is very important and that we, as an EU Member State, are in fact committed to contributing in this way to the exchange of data from criminal records with all other Member States, in fact, to the creation of security and in our space, but also to the entire EU. There have been a lot of speeches here today about the fact that rehabilitation should not be committed for juvenile crimes committed against minors as regards sexual abuse. We're all actually sensitive to these most vulnerable groups, especially our children. And if I remember correctly, and I remember when we talked about amendments to the Penal Code that were initiated by the ruling ones, we talked a lot about it. But I remind you that through the amendments to the Penal Code, we have just strengthened criminal justice protection and minors, but also criminal justice protection and women over whom violence has been committed. So it seems to me that we all really have hearing about this problem. But when this issue of rehabilitation is raised, I have deliberately asked the Secretary of State to do so as to ask the question, we must bear in mind that this is a very sensitive issue when we talk about it, about the non-rehabilitation of certain perpetrators of certain criminal acts and the professional public must take into account a lot of factors and it is not such a simple question. What I want to point out is that we, too, when we passed this law, brought him in line with the Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Abuse, so I think it's all taken care of. What I would also like to emphasise is that it is also a stronger use in the criminal records of these biometric data, which the secretary of state also pointed out. I think it is important and it is certain that this will also be used in accordance with the Biometric Data Act that we have also brought, which is in force, which is in fact the way in which these biometric data are collected and used, and in order to better and more accurately identify the identity of the perpetrators of criminal offences, and I think it is certainly very important for the future work of all those bodies who, above all, prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, but also for our criminal record that all persons who are convicted are found. Here's what I think we said. I reiterate once again that the HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement this law for the reason that it really contributes first and foremost better cooperation with the EU Member States, and thus the security of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94056	Thank you very much. We are now going to the next point, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction. Excuse me. Now I'm reading the one we've solved. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature, first reading, P.Z. No. 245. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Honorable Juro Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94059	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The Law on Public Literature regulates the structure, authority and manner of work of public records as a public service. The proposed amendments and additions of the Law on Public Registration have been made to the need to introduce public records in electronic form and to draw up such remote documents in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register according to which public notebooks have been designated as authorised composers for the establishment and registration of commercial companies. This further digitises the procedures for public notaries and significantly facilitates the procedure for the establishment and until the registration of companies. In addition, the amendments to the law seek to ensure the availability of public records services in places where a public notary is not established through the establishment of office days by official duty. However, provisions on the takeover of public records offices by joint service and the possibility of the simultaneous provision of the public notary and the bankruptcy manager shall be left out. The power of appointed public notaries in the field of a particular court shall be conferred on the Ministry of Justice and Administration following the attached opinion of the Croatian Public Recording Chamber. The legislative proposal reduces the number of public notaries and advisers employed in one office primarily because of the upcoming planned expansion of the circle of public records-religious jobs. For the sake of the established practical need, the institute of the deputy public notary shall be regulated and the conditions for the performance of the tasks of the deputy and the public notary shall be amended. It is proposed to amend the power to adopt a public note tariff by prescribing the award for the performance of entrusted tasks to comply with the applicable regulatory framework governing the performance of those tasks. In addition, these legal amendments to the Public Registration Act are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Action Plan for the liberalisation of the service market. The proposed law further digitises the behaviour of public notebooks and ensures a level playing field for public service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94060	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. First of all, he's a respected representative of the Habiani, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94061	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I would say that I welcome these amendments and the additions of the Law on Public Literature, particularly in this section, where it is actually made possible to allow public notaries as authorised constituents of the documents to now have the opportunity to register, so to register, or to register, a company at a distance. I think that we are here in some way in step and with that agenda of digital transition, that this establishment, or the possibility of notebooks setting up companies or registering companies, will certainly improve the investment climate. In that sense, here again I welcome these very changes in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94062	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94063	So, what do you say to this. So modern technologies are something we must put into the service of citizens and entrepreneurs through laws, and that is what these laws and many others do. So here we are essentially ensuring that modern technologies are used in a way that can be easier, simpler, faster to register and register the company needed for entrepreneurship to Croatian citizens. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94064	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94065	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's a quick statement about availability. We must say that both during and after the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and as the Croatian Democratic Community, we have tabled an amendment to the areas where the courts are not based so that this part can be made available to our citizens. The fact is that we are witnesses, therefore, that there are certain areas of the Republic of Croatia where the population density is lower, that is, the density of the population, and that is why we want to allow every Croatian citizen to have equal access to their rights. For this reason, I welcome, therefore, that an office time will be introduced for all those places where there are no seats and where, therefore, the public notary will be carried out. My question would be, therefore, given the part about whether certain areas in which this activity will be carried out are known. Whether it will be the premises of municipal courts or others and so on, that people may already know where they will be able to contact about these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94066	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94067	Every law, every amendment to the law goes towards improving the position of Croatian citizens in consummating legal rights, and I would say commitment. In this case, I cannot say exactly where it is, but common sense requires and we can all conclude that it will be determined where the density of the population is such that there is no economic and other justification for the establishment of public records. There, then, in the areas of these municipal courts or permanent services, the minister will establish an obligation for public notaries to establish office days and to bring citizens closer to them and to provide them with the service that public notaries, as a public service, give to our citizens, but also to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94068	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you'll hear about it later in the presentation. Here's a letter from a lady who has a public record office. She's asking you through me about a part of the Public Note Act that prescribes the procedure for the appointment of public notary neighbors. You'll hear from the lady later, she said there were some problems. Namely, the chamber must give its opinion, but since the public records are persons on the market, we must say they themselves are doing their job purely your commentary. Should the chamber be involved in selecting a public notary or should it still be left to the public notary itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94070	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94071	And, Your Honor, I thank you for asking. But in your question, there's one finding that's not true, which is that they're on a clean market. Lawyers are on the market, public notebooks act as a public service and they are partly really earning for their work, but they are the primary public service established in a way that cannot register them as much as they want because they are a public service company, I would say company. The state has some interest in having some influence on these processes, including employment, thus limiting the number of employees, determining the conditions, and also where public notebooks will be registered. So, in a particular case, I believe that the chamber is like a Swedish association, but therefore the institution to which some public powers have been transferred must be involved in the choice of neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94072	Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94073	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, it is common knowledge that children of powerful men who have lano-stamped them with 75 kunas have always gone to public notebooks in Croatia, and even neighbours do so for them. Therefore, reducing the deadlines set out in this action plan you mentioned can only lead to further erosion of the intellectual potential of this branch. Then why stop at it? We're going to cut deadlines for judges scheduled for state attorneys, etc. As far as the information issues themselves are concerned, I have no doubt about it, but the latter will certainly not contribute to the goal that this law seeks to achieve, except to allow the ignorant to continue to do luxuriant work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94074	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94075	Dear colleagues, therefore, you have brought forth a series of your observations at the service, to this public service as such, and also to the legislative solutions accompanying the service. I'd say that's your right. I don't share your position on most things, I think the legislator takes care of it, of the criteria we operate when we allow someone to become a neighbor, of someone becoming a public notary. Therefore, all the other procedures for the elections that are sometimes objected to are subject to, so they are somewhat involved by the executive authority, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, but the legality of the work of the executive authority, including the Ministry of Justice and the administrations, are controlled by administrative courts that exist in the Republic of Croatia, and then, if there is a possible need, it can also arbitration the Constitutional Court as a court that is not part of the judicial authority, but in the case of a possible violation of constitutional rights, one can intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94076	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94077	The honourable secretary of state in the consultation on the draft bill was a comment by the Croatian Public Note Chamber, which noted that it was necessary to add and include the possibility of depositing signatures as a legal representative or a public-legal body as it has been possible to do so far. This is not accepted for reasons, because it says the law allows for the work of public notebooks at a distance. What exactly does that mean? So, let's say all the mayors and commissioners who had their signature deposited in the document certification won't be worth it now, will have to do something else or what? Here's the answer and the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94078	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94079	So, I'm not sure that you're correct in interpreting what exists in the law so far, so the chamber has had constant objections, but in the current law, we've had a model of depositing the signatures of legal persons, but also of public entities, and it's not until these legal changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94080	Thank you very much. You can go to your place, and now I'm opening this debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists will speak to the esteemed representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94081	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This proposal amends the Law on Public Literature brings further liberalisation of this market, which was also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is foreseen to shorten the time of necessary working experience in legal matters after a judicial examination has been passed to obtain the conditions for the appointment of a public notebook from 5 to 4 g. The amendments to the time of the necessary working experience on legal matters after a legal examination has been passed to obtain the conditions for the submission of a public record examination have also been proposed to amend the time period before the expiry of which it is not possible to appoint persons as public notifier in the case of... Pronunciation of the strict penalty of confiscation of service from 3 to 10 years. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal for amending the law also seeks to ensure the availability of public records services in places that are not established by the public register headquarters due to a small number of inhabitants and less developed economic and legal traffic through the establishment of office days by official duty determined by the Ministry after obtaining the opinion of the chamber. Public notaries have been identified as authorised compositors for the establishment or until the registration of a company, and amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register also allow for the establishment and registration of a remote company, so that a public notation in electronic form is required, and to introduce them remotely into the Public Note Act, which is certainly commendable. Public notebooks should also disbursement these amendments, because proposals for entry in land books and releases will be solved by electronic means, and companies should be able to establish them remotely from the summer. In fact, the relationship between deregulation and legal verifiable powers is quite delicate, but it is not inconsistencies only to be taken into account here that the various laws of the notaries are entrusted with a number of public powers, from enforcement to desert procedures and that there is a need for stable financing of their service to ensure the exercise of those powers. Deregulation in the direction of non-limiting of their number seems certainly meaningful and desirable especially in the context of market liberalisation. In order to improve this amendment to the law, we also have a few additions that I believe should be introduced into this law. First of all, here in Art. 14. should add a new item, which would read, in the election between senior candidates will have the advantage of a candidate who has the longest... as a public notary. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, in the election of public notebooks, it was often known that candidates were chosen by unclear criteria. In this way, it would be ensured that public signatories take precedence over other candidates during the election and would allow continuity in the expertise and performance of public records. Two, I think we're proposing an amendment to the article. In the 16th century, attention should be paid to the way in which the public notary will perform office days outside of its headquarters. In fact, I believe that the basic criterion in determining the office should be its size or number of staff in the office, so that it would not happen that, because of the office days outside its headquarters, a public notary entrusted with the performance of office days cannot adequately organise work in his office. Then three, we propose an amendment to the article. 52. I believe that this should not be left with prelaws to regulate the way in which participants are identified when it comes to electronic identification. I keep this issue too important not to lay down by law all for the purpose of legal certainty and the possibility of misuse of identity theft to the minimum possible extent. And four, I suggest an amendment to the article. 122, a sentence should be added, the deputy public notary may be appointed for a maximum period of one year. After the expiry of that period, the public notary shall be obliged to open an invitation to tender. I also consider it appropriate to limit the duration of appointment of a deputy public notary. Here, so short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94082	Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the next one will speak with a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94083	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. Today, we are on the agenda of the Law on Public Literature, which was last amended in 2016. Amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration have been made to align the provisions of this law with the amendments and additions of the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register which adopt the provisions of the EU Directive on the use of digital tools and procedures in the rights of companies in Croatia. Public notaries have been identified as authorised compositors for the establishment and registration of companies, and amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register allow for the establishment and registration of a remote company, so that public records in electronic form are required, and to introduce them remotely into the Public Note Act. I'd like to fill in. 3. The law so as to introduce the concept of a public notation in electronic form, which is equated by its effects and legal force with a public note in paper or physical form, and the form and content of such a document would be laid down by the Public Rules of Procedure. Of course, further revision of this law has been made in areas where shortcomings have been identified. The action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 April 2021. scheduled to reduce the time of necessary working experience in legal matters after a judicial examination has been passed to obtain the conditions for the appointment of a public notary from 5 to 4g. It is also proposed to modify the time of the necessary working experience in legal affairs after a legal examination has been passed to obtain the conditions for public examinations and to reduce that time from two years of experience in legal affairs in the judiciary, law offices and public records to 18 months, three years of experience in other legal matters would be reduced to two years. It is also proposed to amend the time period before the expiry of which it is not possible to appoint a person as a public notary in the event of a prior sentence of suspension of service from three to 10 years. Amendments to Article 1 shall be proposed. 14. In order to comply with the procedural provisions of the Public Note Act with the General Administrative Procedure Act which no longer knows the property of the finality of the administrative act, the decision appointed by the Minister is no longer final. Efforts to ensure the availability of public records services in places where a public notary headquarters is not established due to a small number of inhabitants and less developed economic and legal traffic through the establishment of office days by official duty determined by the Ministry after the Chamber’s opinions have been obtained. An article is also proposed. 18. A public notation law which would impose an obligation to obtain a qualified electronic signature certificate which will have the same legal effect as a governmental signature and seal after the application of the oath. A request for obtaining a certificate will be submitted to a chamber which, upon receipt of notification by the Ministry of termination of the service or of the temporary distance of the public notary, will take actions to recall or suspend a qualified certificate for the electronic signature of the public notary. It is proposed to abandon the provisions on the takeover of public records offices in such a way as to delete the Article. The 26th Law, which allowed the appointed public notary to continue working in premises used by the former public notary, since the applicable standards for public records offices are regulated and international contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to Article 1 shall be proposed. 29th Law that, at the request of the public notary, the Ministry may allow the opening of an office and maintenance of office days outside the headquarters of the public notary. I'd like to delete the order from the article. 38. which allowed the joint service of two public notebooks to be carried out because it is no longer considered justified or necessary. It would be found incompatible with the service of a public notary to the service of a bankruptcy manager. A new article would be added. 50.a. which would prescribe the possibility of keeping the issue of public records in electronic form and their management in a single electronic archive that would run the chamber. It would define the printing of a public notation in electronic form and give the chamber the authority to regulate its rules on how to manage and access and use electronic archives, public electronic documents. An article would be added. 52.a., which would prescribe the possibility of drawing up electronic electronic electronic documents where the presence of participants would be possible through electronic communication means. The article would also prescribe ways of verifying the identity of participants as well as that the assumptions and procedure of drawing up these documents would be governed by the public rules of procedure. It is proposed to increase the number of public notaries in the public record office from two to three and to increase the number of public notary advisors from one to two, primarily due to the upcoming planned expansion of the circle of public notebooks. For the sake of the established practical need, it would be regulated to regulate the Institute of Vice-Presidents in cases of longer absence and prevention for the work of public notary neighbours, primarily because of the fact that the number of members in the public record office is legally restricted. It is proposed to amend the conditions for carrying out the tasks of the deputy public notary so as to determine the future deputy public notary between the advisors of public notaries and public notaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94084	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94085	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club and the Committee on Justice and at this first vote supports this first reading of amendments to the Law on Public Notes because we simply believe that we are doing this to make this important area work even better and even better. What we would like to stress is that, no matter how many times public notebooks are seen as necessarily evil, they are very important for the rule of law and normal functioning and the economy and the citizens and what we cannot possibly forget is how important the role of public notebooks was when we closed negotiating chapters with the EU and when much was transferred to public notebooks to reduce the pressure on courts and that we could prove that we have made certain steps. So we just think we're doing something with this to make the system even better and even better. The first thing that we would like to particularly apostrophe on today and especially stress is that we absolutely support that as much as we can digitize, that simply in the 21st century in 2022. Finally, we are doing these quality steps in digitising the process and in the judicial system because what we do shows that it speeds up a lot of things on the one hand, on the other hand, making it more accessible to a wider circle of citizens, on the third hand introducing one higher level of transparency in the whole system. We don't have a story anymore that someone's got something in the drawer or that's lost or God forbid it's definitely something to say hello to. Another thing that we would like to absorb is that we are very glad to take care of and make the system of public records more accessible, namely to be more economical, so that we do not give citizens extra costs so that they can do what they need with public notebooks. And the third thing we want to do is apostrophe is, but we'll do it through the amendment until the second reading or for the second reading, we'd like to clear up the system of public record awards because what we've been able to read in the reading of the law in this first reading is that we still don't have until the end-determined tax of the public record prize, so there's a situation where the public notary representative of the state has some additional costs, and when it comes to private persons paying and a public note prize and a tax, through the VAT fee, therefore we still have a system of double charge of certain services and, of course, we welcome the fact that the Secretary of State and the Committee said that this is something that we can talk about and we can figure out how and in what way we might do better, more easily, more easily, more cheaply, available for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94086	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94087	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So what we have here is a continuation of our conversation from the replica, the attitude of a lady, here from the area of the City of Zagreb, which has a public record office, so this is the attitude of the profession. I quote or read a letter about how I got it. The Public Note Act fully opposes the Regulation on the evaluation of candidates in the procedure of the appointment of judges, which provides for a procedure for the appointment of judges, as well as the Law on Public Note, a procedure for the appointment of public signatories, even though public notifiers need to have the same expertise, and carry out tasks in the jurisdiction of courts, as well as court commissioners. It is prescribed by that regulation that the judge, except that he must fulfil the formal conditions in order to be appointed a judge, must undergo a knowledge check and a structural conversation on which members of the council are asking questions and conduct a structured discussion with the applicant for an appropriate duration. In this way, it shall be assessed whether the candidate has the necessary knowledge and skills to meet the requirements of the places he has appeared. Therefore, only after the structure of the conversation has been carried out in accordance with Article. Seven and nine. Rules on the evaluation of candidates in the procedure of appointment of judges, and after the examination of knowledge has been carried out in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. On 10 and 12th of the same Regulation, a decision on the appointment of a person as a judge, which has previously been established to satisfy formal conditions, shall be taken. Unless the candidate for the judge meets the above conditions, of course, he will not be appointed. Such a possibility has been taken away from the public notary and must be employed by a person for whom a knowledge check and a structured conversation takes place, the person does not meet the requirements for the place he appears. On the contrary to that Regulation, according to the Law on Public Registration, the Public Note Chamber shall give an opinion on the candidate on the basis of the fulfilment of the formal conditions, of course there shall be an expert prepared and passed a public note exam until, in the nature of that person, it has neither the appropriate knowledge nor the psychophysical capacity to act as a public notary. In this way, the state and the public notary were brought into an unequal position. Let's say a judge who wouldn't behave well with his knowledge or psychophysical abilities at his worst would be relieved while a public notary for any failure or damage caused by his public record neighbor responds to his entire movable and immovable property. If a public register for the work of a neighbour corresponds to the whole of its assets it would be logical to also assess the knowledge and psychophysical abilities of a person who performs such a responsible duty and therefore also represents a public record office. Nevertheless, the legislator does not allow such a possibility but in one way punishes him by bringing him before the election that he does his job alone in the next year or to hire a person who can potentially harm the parties and compromise his office and the entire public record profession. For all of these reasons, the example in the practice of appointing a public notary seems to be so that a public notary finds a person who will carry out the activities of a neighbour, hires him as a lawyer, reports the need for a public notary based on the application, and then calls for a tender and publishes a vote in the National Journal. This recently mentioned employee submits an ad for a future neighbour, and other potentially interested persons contact the public notary asking for information whether the tender is published only pro form or orderly or is real serious to know whether they are even applying for the competition. So, except that the public notary is not given the opportunity to hire a quality and professional person the whole selection process is kind of fixed, which is what the person thinks is against both morality and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, of course, I don't want to engage in any kind of conflict, but I think that maybe in some way you should consider making public notes that maybe a little bit more control over people or the quality of people who hire it through formal conditions, either of course through quality as a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94088	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94089	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Law on Public Literature and can be said in the introduction that public records are an extremely important institute in our legal system and what is important for the word they have raised in their action the level of legal certainty in legal matters in property relations between parties and between legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Public notebooks are actually persons of public trust who carry out their duties independently and independently. These are extremely important jobs that they do, from drawing up private documents, from certifying the documents that the parties create between themselves in the conduct and creation of legal relations, property relations, legal affairs and, if we do not remember, in fact, they have also contributed to the security and acceleration of certain judicial processes, because we do not forget when public records were introduced and when they were able to give, for example, the power of enforcement of such a contract to save at least 5-6.g. the court procedure, when there was a contract between the parties and when the obligations were defined in that contract, then without that exercise clause it went to court, the first-degree verdict, the second-degree, the second-degree power and only after 5 years. and even more sometimes it could be in a concrete executive procedure for the party to sort out and this one to meet her, her claims. With the introduction of public records and the possibility to enforce a certain correction, we have come to a situation which means that all of this should not be done but go straight into the execution of these obligations. This concept of amending the Law on Public Literature is actually I would say part of a broader procedure, which is the digitization of the process and here this in this law actually insists that we actually have digital documents and remote documents, and that is, it is actually in line and that it is well stated, in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and to the Law on the Court Register. It's big, it's big progress, let's not forget that today means the company and this various status changes related to the company can be made remotely, we don't have to go to the public notebook's office, we don't have to go to the statistical office, we don't really even have to go to the pension office, the health office, all this is done in this way digitally and that will certainly contribute to the speed and will certainly contribute to our efficiency and this, will enable our people to have a quick process with time savings. What I want to say about this law may need to be considered by second reading. It's a tariff because here the concept of tariff is changing significantly. So far, the tariff under the law has been passed by a public record chamber with the consent of the ministry, according to this new concept, so the tariff brings the ministry with the opinion of the chamber, and it seems to me it's right, I think it's okay if it's de facto not the notes of people performing on the market, but they actually do the jobs entrusted to them by the state and doing those jobs on behalf of the state. I just think that here, in relation to this concept, we have to define some kind of deadline by the second reading until the ministry gets that tariff. Consent is not an agreement but is now a concept of an opinion that is not binding. In any case, this job needs to be resolved because let's not forget that in this segment it's a temporary tariff in force since 1994, it's a pretty long period, and I think this one should be done. I would also suggest another step forward because, as far as we can see in the consultation, the amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are, this law is in the first reading, it might not be bad until the second reading to coordinate the procedure somehow and see because maybe the space related to the work of the public notebooks could also be expanded. Let us not forget that the public records of the institutions through which we have released a lot of justice because the public notebooks act in desert cases as commissioners of the court, in the executive cases they also appear as commissioners of the court. Perhaps the situation should be considered to allow them to do prior evidence insurance tasks in litigation procedures that would then have special force in litigation proceedings, thus speeding up these litigation proceedings, and yet the notebooks could take over an important part of the work being done by the courts. If I tried to translate it somehow, what would it mean in reality, if someone was going to initiate some kind of litigation procedure then, for some evidence prior to the initiation of the procedure, they might contact the public notary to determine some amount of damage, to perform some kind of skill, to determine whether or not to interfere with the possessions of some kind of evidence related to between or something like that. This would, in any case, contribute to the acceleration of litigation procedures which we also see as being well digitised in a way that there is electronic communication among parties in a way that this will now be especially this and the normative framework to hold a debate at a distance and such a single contribution would be I think one closed then system which, which is well arranged but is only an idea, is not specifically related to this point but perhaps an idea for some other step related to the law that is in the consultation and the law that passes first reading. The HDZ Club this, these amendments to the Law on Public Literature supports and we believe that this is a good step forward, that this brings digitisation and an even greater degree of digitisation of public notation than it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94090	The next Club of Representatives will be the one For a Fair Croatia, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94091	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Therefore, the draft law has been adopted primarily for the purpose of introducing public notifying documents in electronic form and drawing up such documents at a distance or for the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Public Registration relating to the establishment of a public document with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, which is subject to the provisions of the EU institutions in the Croatian legislation. In view of the fact that the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register, public notaries have been designated as authorised constituents of a company registration document and that amendments to these laws allow the establishment and registration of remote companies to need public records in electronic form and to introduce them remotely into the Public Note Act itself. These amendments and additions to the Public Note Act have been used for some other amendments to this law in areas in which certain shortcomings have been identified so far, primarily in view of the fact that the law was passed as early as 1993. whose later amendments and additions were only fragmented and whose specific provisions today no longer meet the needs of legal traffic and the role of public notebooks in that traffic. So, I think it is important today to mention the public's own fees for their work with this topic. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice recently made public hearings amending the rules on compensation and awards for public notebooks in an executive procedure that brings a higher public note fee in procedures with executive requirements of up to 5,000 kuna. According to the regulation adopted in February of last year following the amendments to the Implementing Law, public notaries in procedures of up to 5,000 kuna for a series of actions from the receipt of a proposal for implementation to the issue of a certificate of power and enforcement are prescribed a fee of 100 kuna. For the processes of higher value of those between 5,000 and 50,000 kuna fees for the same actions amounted to 150 kuna, and for more damage claims they could charge a fee of 200 kuna plus 1% to the difference above 50,000. The lowest fixed fee of 100 kuna is now deleted, so public notes for proceedings up to 5,000 kuna will charge a fee of 150 kuna, and it is the largest number of executive procedures, as according to FINA, 80% of all procedures are due to debts of up to 2,500 kuna. At the same time, from 25 kuna to 75 kuna, the advance of these costs is raised, which is due to be paid by the executive within eight days of the invitation of the public notary. However, the public notebooks will no longer be able to charge the costs of the second and any subsequent attempt to deliver the solution to the users, but all attempts will cover their unique amount of advances. Although it is logical to conclude that higher public fees also mean more expensive enforcement procedures for the performance of the lowest values in the Ministry of Justice and Administration argue that the new rules do not mean the collection in most cases. Amendments to the Regulation have been made following an analysis which referred to a large number of cases in which court officials subsequently request the costs collected. The Ministry took the view that since the current system carries out the costs of other and all subsequent deliveries, it generates additional costs for the perpetrators and increases the court's burden to increase the efficiency of the executive procedure and optimise the material costs of the public notebooks, it is proposed to introduce a single public note fee of up to 150 kuna for amounts of up to 50,000 kuna. They point out that the advance now includes the cost of any other and any further deliveries, noting that in 70% of the cases, public notebooks carry out at least two deliveries. The ministry argues that this would eliminate a large number of cases before courts in which the executives subsequently seek and costs which, in most cases, reduce the cost of the commission for the perpetrators. Translated, this means that the increased cost of the execution is prepared only by those who do not avoid delivery, and such benevolent call them suckers is only 30% among the perpetrators. Gentlemen of the Ministry, I'd like you to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94092	Ultimately now, on behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Damir Habian, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94093	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Well, here's the short story, in fact, everything Bošnjakovic said, introduced on behalf of the club, of course, that's what we're joining. I think that these changes and this first reading actually indicates that, in particular, this change regarding the possibility that public notaries as authorized document makers participate in the establishment or registration and registration of remote companies is on the trail and what is actually a digital agenda, so digital transitions are actually about catching steps with time, or that we are on track of what the whole Western Europe is all about. Of other changes, we should certainly commend this possibility that certain office days will be determined in places where there is no permanent seat of public notebooks. I think that's what my colleague Hungarian mentioned in his replica, so as an example where we recently through the amendment to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts also regulated that part. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club welcomes these changes, of course, will support it. I'd just like to look back on one more thing we've had to feel here, if I'm not mistaken in a replica where I don't want to be a public notary lawyer or a profession, but I think some of the things that have been said here in terms of generalization that it's a profession if I understood a colleague well, I think that my colleague Vukovac said that people are coming in here for an inheritance and that they actually use that duty or profession in some way, I don't think it's right for the public notaries who do their work really correctly behind which is both education that is not simple and that it's certainly not quite easy. Therefore, in this way in public space I think it is not really correct to talk about this profession. Here is the HDZ Representatives' Club, which will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94094	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a short break of 10 minutes and move on at 12.00 hours. It's 11:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:04 A.M.]] I see he's picking up on behalf of the MOST Club probably wants to speak to the esteemed Representative Bulj. He's looking for Stanka. Right? I have to read the point, so then you'll just be the formalities. So the next item is - Proposal for a law on strategic commodity supplies, first reading, P.Z. No. 247. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most High, I'm guessing a break will be requested by the esteemed representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94097	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. We're talking about a very important topic of supply. We're witnessing that warehouses and supply locations are a state secret. We're witnessing that we have a supply tip. In this advice are the people of the ruling HDZ coalition, the SDSS, Mr Ante Sanader and Anya Simprag. The same way that Minister Horvat and Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic sat next to each other. Do you know how important the stock is? Is it the same secret, that the secret to the stock is listed here as how many wheat we have, how many corn we have, how many cans we have. But why should we trust that state secret HDZ and the SDSS? Well, you remember your colleague and colleagues when Giakov was cleared of their silos, the missing silos. How many tons was that? I don't know thousands of tons. It's never been discovered. Well, it wasn't a brooch. It's not the brooch one, it's the silos gone. So once again, unserious mistrust, I don't believe in this trade coalition around the stockpiles of Mrs. Anja Simprage and Ante Sanader. We don't believe it!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94098	Honorable representative and vice president of this House Ante Sanader, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94099	Dear Mr. President, only on the basis of Article 238th correction here inaccuracy because apart from the two of us and the esteemed representative Daniel Spajic is a member of the council, so it is not an association of what the distinguished representative Bulj means. The opposition and the ruling have a representative on the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94100	Thank you very much. That's an explanation, therefore, this one I'll accept both, I think it's useful that and what my colleague Bulj said and what you said, that it's clear to everyone this, now about this situation. Comrade Bulj, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94101	Thank you very much. A colleague named Ante Sanader has been injured by an article. 238 where he demeans the MPs because I didn't tell the truth, I told the truth that the coalition was a Mrs. SDSS. Chimpraga and Mr. Sanader himself or personally or personally, such as Milosevic and Horvat in this case, are here together. And who's 3rd and 4th, I don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94102	Okay. Well, here's the thing. Neither was this a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I will not, as you have seen, I will not give either notice, but in the future, I beg you, stay away from personal claims, especially if they are not correct. Let's be parliamentary and stay away from such things, it's not good for the atmosphere here when we're discussing a very important point, and these are strategic commodity supplies, we see what's going on in Europe, we see how much they are, we all know how important these things are to all of us, so please, one level and one seriousness in the debate. Now I'd like to ask the promoter if he would like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94103	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The current Strategic Stocks Act was adopted on 11 July 2002 and entered into force on 31 July 2002. As of that day in the Republic of Croatia, market stock stocks have ceased to exist and until today only strategic stock stocks remain as they are proposed to continue with this proposal for a law that is before you, esteemed representatives and advocates. By 2002, the starting point in the concept of stock stocks was that goods were made up of those goods necessary for the provision of basic supplies at a time of war or of direct threat and independence of the unity of the Republic of Croatia and in the event of major natural disasters. The criteria for determining the type and quantity of goods, which is still current today, were for those goods to provide basic supplies for around 50,000 people during 15 to 60 days, to provide basic equipment and materials for the disposal of construction in case of major natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, fires, major harariums of municipal and transparent systems, etc. Experiences of Homeland Work and recent natural disasters have shown that the established criterion is well set which is.../incomprehensible/... which should be kept in the future with minor changes. In view of the fact that HS is the holder of the legislative authority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia carries out the executive power in accordance with the Constitution and the Strategic Stocks Act and the full implementation of the Stocks Act has been handed over to the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the obligation to submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the condition and management of the supply of goods. In order to exercise control over the management of commodity stocks by the Directorate, it remains prescribed in the proposal of the Strategic Stocks Act that HS continues to set up the Stocks Committee, consisting of 3 parliamentary representatives and 2 prominent experts from the economy, and clearly appointed by this esteemed House and clear that the control is carried out regularly by the budgetary supervision, by the State Office for Audit and clearly, possible by other authorities in the Republic of Croatia who are authorised to oversee this institution, such as the Directorate for Stocks. As the existing Strategic Stocks Act has already become obsolete, in one of its parts that envisioned what is left of the market time, meaning from the time until 2002, what with operational supplies that are no longer present in our legislation, there are mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products regulated by the Oil and Oil Markets Act, the Strategic Stocks Act needs to be adapted to the new challenges of frequent disasters, humanitarian crises, in terms of the operationality of the adoption of the balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, the management of supply stocks, the faster filling and nomination of new possible necessary products in the balance sheet of goods of strategic commodity stocks. It is also necessary to prescribe that long-term procedures and procedures in the Directorate's Office, when it comes to the management of commodity supplies and assets managed by the Directorate on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, are also given the appropriate legal form through the regulations, whose adoption will prescribe this new proposal for the Law. The basic issues that need to be regulated by law are: the way and procedure for the formation of the use, renewal and storage of supply supplies, the way in which the balance of strategic commodity stocks and the list of mandatory items in the same, the rights and duties of the state authorities in connection with the supply of goods, the definition of rights and management of commodity supplies and the carrying out of supply operations, as well as the responsibilities for the professional execution of operations. Procedures from previous management practice regarding operations, as I have already said, prescribe through regulations. The way and sources of funding for the creation of stockpiles are also regulated by this law. To carry out administrative and economic activities in connection with commodity stocks and how to ensure the supervision and authorisation of competent state authorities to operate strategically, for the functioning of strategic commodity stocks. The consequences that the Law will result in, or the basic objectives of the Law, are to determine the purpose or needs for which stocks are formed, to determine in a functional, operational and rational manner the purpose and level of formation of goods and goods made up of permanent stocks, to enable the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act quickly and effectively in terms of possible necessary and changes in the balance sheet of goods of strategic commodity stocks, particularly the examples of recent disasters or earthquakes in Zagreb and Banovina. It is clear that the procedures in which the specified bodies providing orders for the use of supply supplies in case of need are to be adapted to the degree of secrecy to real economic opportunities in economic operators engaged by the Directorate in stockpiling operations, in order to ensure stable permanent sources of financing for commodity stocks and to ensure effective monitoring and control of supply operations. The proposed solutions will allow for even better functioning of supply supplies for cases prescribed by law and will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act in an efficient manner in accordance with the Strategic Stocks Act quickly and spotively through the Directorate for Stocks, Civil Protection and other bodies and organisations involved in the prevention and resolution of disasters both war, climate and humanitarian and major accidents, biological events, technical and technological events and environmental disasters. This law continues to retain the list of goods, but in a different way by showing a group of products so that detailed individual products will prescribe the balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks to be delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is important to highlight other than so far groups of products such as agricultural and food products and not food products are introduced newspapers, which are medicines, vaccines, antidotes, sanitary and consumer medical materials. Money keeping is abolished because this is the part that has remained in the law since the 2000s because it is simply from the position of today's budget functioning practically impossible situation to keep in money. The money is in the budget, and the stockpiles are intended exclusively to be on the market, and according to the same balance sheet are filled in according to the financial opportunities of the budget defined by the state budget. budgets over the year that follows. So that would be short for me as far as law enforcement is concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94104	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas. He's the first law-abiding representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94105	Thank you very much. Secretary, stockpiles are like a proud knot that when it cut opens everything and everything, just so there's no arrest. Medically from the strategic supply should mean medical procurement of medical supplies in this covid crisis because we know that it is also under secret kind of secret without public procurement, as we have seen both incompetence and non-recovery in the case of Petrinja and Zagreb. Believe me, there were no people, fans' groups, Torcide, BBB, citizens' initiative that unfortunately people would die of hunger both from thirst and in Sisak-Moslavina County, especially after the earthquake. Inorganization, incompetence, and above all, this covertness without public procurement laws... medical aids and equipment. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94106	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94107	Dear Representative Bulj, I categorically reject all your insinuations to any irregularities from the Department of the Stocks. You have a transparent website of 720 million spent funds for covid, 113 million spent on earthquakes, of which 24.5 for Zagreb. All procedures as obtained, as you say in hidden procedures, I personally invite you here in front of the Croatian public whenever you and any of the parliamentary representatives come to the Director's Department of Stocks, your colleague Juric and everyone below will give you all the documents. You're HS, you have the right to know everything and come and get all the papers that you think just that something doesn't seem right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94108	I see they've committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Bull and a respected representative of the Troscott. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94109	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, where parliamentarians are belittled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94110	I'm sorry, that's not demeaning, it's no disrespect. I have to give you a warning, I don't care about the sequel, because it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94111	Well, you can't give me a warning I didn't explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94112	You have nothing to explain because you are not demeaned by anything, absolutely nothing, but you were called by the Secretary of State. to come, to come. [[Intruder Bulj: He pronounced that he was telling lies, and I was telling the pure classical truth.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94113	We know that 12 kunas cost one mask, and in public procurement, how you did public procurement for this medical facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94114	Comrade Bulj, please receive a warning. You're pulling. [[I think it sucks.]] Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94115	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Tell me first, I don't know I didn't follow if the Director of the Department of Stocks was appointed? And secondly, how did you figure out how to re-establish these stock exchanges? I'm interested, there was a terrible problem with the housing containers, etc., did something happen in this respect, did Banovina and the earthquake reveal and covid that we were extremely unprepared?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94116	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94117	Thank you, Mr. Representative. As for container 1.132 containers, the management has, and we have some in reserve, so the need for them is gone. As far as disagreements are concerned, I disagree, on every call requested by the Directorate to deliver either in an earthquake in Zagreb or in Banovina, we reacted without delay. We've been reacting promptly, and we have evidence to do that, and we can elaborate on it in detail. And the fact that we didn't go public, that we boasted, now the truck has left our warehouse, from our warehouse, it's normal that we didn't do it or it's manual or it's natural because it's our basic task to serve for it. So the Red Cross and the economics and the volunteers, the praises were worth getting everything they asked of us. ... There will be a competition very soon. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what I was told. [[Just not from the bench, just not from the bench, please. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94118	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Skora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So in this proposal of the Strategic Stocks Act, there was a public debate, he has the Annex 1 which says that these are a list of goods that can make strategic goods stocks and it is claimed that the government will create a balance.../incomprehensible/... excellent. In the debate, there was one comment that said that a list of goods that make up strategic stock needed to protect infants and women of childbearing age, so they asked to include a factory milk preparation powder, so-called powder. formula and hygienic cartridges. You rejected it with reason because various changes in society change the needs of certain products, etc., etc. Tell me, please, what are these changes in society, of any kind, or even of biology that will reduce the needs of so-called. formula and hygienic cartridges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94120	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94121	Well, maybe my colleagues have been so clumsy about that, and this one, let me explain. So that's all this is, what they're looking for, it's going to be very definitely in the balance sheet. But we went to avoid burdening this Law with details and certain arctics, and we went, let's say, to a synthetic display, a synthetic display, this, a synthetic presentation of the product, and then the balance will be this, all the products that are estimated to be necessary. I don't see any reason why you mentioned this, that these products are not in the balance sheet, and that, too, will be a clear opportunity for the public to get to know each other because the balance sheet will go to the government and as such will be publicly available document. So our basic intensities not to burden the law with detailism like the old law was and then later it was actually in that part and ineligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94122	My friend Škoro, you're the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94123	Yes, Mr. Vice President, sir. 238. I have the right to say, you have the right to remind me, I have no other way, so I risk a consciously second time today, so in a country that has such demographic problems, these are strategic products, these are strategic things, and this is not detailing, so you said yourself, it's a failure and it would be good to correct it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94124	Thank you very much. You said yourself that you need to get a warning because it's a replica, and everyone has a chance in this individual debate and finally speak, etc., so I have to give a warning. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94125	Your Honor, Secretary of State. All preparedness or unpreparedness of strategic stockpiles has proved unfortunately during these natural disasters in Banovina and Zagreb. I'm not going to go into whether there were enough goods in the warehouses, but the fact is that she arrived late in the injured area and did not come to the citizens' organisation to create complete chaos. However, I am interested here in accordance with article. 12, where it comes from dealing with commodity supplies, how do goods stocks operate in the last few years, do they earn income, surpluses, or are they a financial loser?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94126	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94127	Thank you. I'll tell you one more time, we didn't get along, the tragedy wanted that out of 300 containers, that everyone was in Covid when the earthquake occurred and 1100 containers, plus what came out of the donations wasn't easy to produce or deliver, and we did it as fast as we could and I think that, it's going to be analysed in the future. As far as stockpile operations are concerned, we regularly achieve a surplus, uh, sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, so we're never at a loss, if by chance it would be a loss, it's very difficult to happen, and if it were, we have surpluses from previous years, of course, in principle, here, since I've been associated with some disruptions in stock since 2012, we've always had surpluses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94128	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94129	Thank you very much. In 2008, a list of 108 companies that took goods from stock, never paid for it, damaged the state budget by half a billion kuna. How are you gonna stop that from happening again?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94130	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94131	Well, that's unfortunately all, this whole list, it was all about the business of stock stocks until 2002. We can agree here all of them in this esteemed House, that it was business in, end of the '90s and early 2000s, because since 2000, there have been no more problems, if there were, were minimal, uh, that it was simple, we processed it and all.../incomprehensible/... legal means, something was charged, something didn't, something went out of date. I can only say that since 2012 since I became headmaster, so I was there until 2017, here, now as State Secretary, I am still in charge of controlling and dealing with goods supplies, we had only 5 million in advance deals from 2012 to 2017. It was our whole loss in those five years, which is normal that sometimes something can happen and we're another part of it and we saved So you're keeping an eye on that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Yes... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94132	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94133	My dear secretary, the press is here when... There is an article, which the journalists, therefore, wonderfully said, that the history of independent Croatian was marked by scandals related to the state of supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Charges were filed, trials conducted, investigated in empty warehouses, scandalized over false charges. Even in the light of this Law, the proposer says, among other things, a single sentence, says only during 2001 that the sale of wheat on the domestic market and exports of wheat was carried out without any problems or affairs. So the affair is also mentioned in the very explanation of this Law, and it is symbolic that on today we are talking about this Law and, in fact, remains the only question that today is relevant are you ready for the humanitarian disaster that awaits us, since today the war has started 500 km from Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94134	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94135	Thanks for asking. We're not going to discuss history here because in the end, whoever's involved, let him discuss it. Well, we haven't had the affair since the 2000s, and we're clearly ready for God's disaster, if we're ready for Gunja, for ice in the Gorski kotar, for the migrant crisis, for the earthquake, one for Covid, for the second earthquake, we'll be ready for this, or we're ready. In our balance sheet, there are now more than half a billion kuna worth of goods in our warehouses. The Croatian state budget is ready to react as it reacted with 720 plus 100, meaning 800 million kuna in 2 years additional for the earthquake and for Covid, there is no reason that we are not ready and we will, God forbid if there is a need, it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94136	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94137	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, we just can't agree that there was no problem in the case, for example. The last disasters, the earthquakes in Banja, and there were problems with the delivery of things, and in this very sense I would ask you, since in this new proposal you predicted that the control of the Parliament's stockpiles could, so it doesn't have to, so that the Council can and does not have to be, to establish, and so I'm interested, because, according to this proposal, the inspection supervision is done only by the Directorship for which the same is not clear how it is chosen in this Law at all, which is why you removed the obligation of the Assembly Council and you put it on the can, which means neither must. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94138	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94139	The fact that, yes, that we are inspecting and clearly, we are taking care of it. As for this may, or earlier, have written the founding, and today writes, it is on the recommendation of the Ministry of Justice to simply leave this esteemed House the possibility that, clearly, it can be established whenever it is called upon or when it is decided, or that eventually, if it does not, let us not, let us say in violation. Why did we, why did they recommend it? Because we had time when we had to pray HS to set us up. This does not apply to this convocation and to you here, but there were times when we literally had to pray for a Council to be established for us, and, but here you are now the first one to raise that question, I suppose there will be discussions, as we do at the Ministry, or at the Ministry, if this esteemed House through the debate says it remains the foundation, we will, regardless of the Ministry's recommendation in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94140	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94141	Dear Secretary of State Eve, you lied in the Parliament today. You said you hadn't made any losses since 2012, in 2019, you achieved a loss of 26.5 million kuna that you covered with a surplus of 32.5 million from the year before. So you've already come and told a lie, we're not even going. Secondly, about unpreparedness, your financial data that you gave to HS. Secondly, about the unpreparedness and about these containers, so we ourselves were, so Miletic and I on the ground, you can ask your Minister Medveda, where the heroines of the Homeland War, Jadranka and Gordan from the village of Maja, waited 11 months for the container. Imagine, 11 months in waiting for a container. They received it exclusively and explicitly at the request of Marin Miletic who said he would make a real mess because the women who lost heroin without a roof over their heads didn't do anything to protect them. And it's time for you to start telling the truth and you can't come to the Parliament and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94142	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94143	About the loss. If you achieve an excess of 35 million kuna, in order for you to physically spend it in the next year, it is a nominal loss, but essentially it is not a loss. I was talking about the bottom line, and I'm sorry I had to comment on it, which you just said, in an accounting sense, that's what I said. But that's where you're right, in accounting terms, and that's basically what it is for you. You, otherwise, that the Administration did not accomplish so-called The loss of that year, then our resources would go into the budget and we of those funds would no longer have anything, that was our assets. And as for that, we've secured the container, and we're not in charge of bringing it to the place where it was supposed to be. Other services do. [[/Intruder: Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94144	Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94145	Dear Secretary, this Law defines, among other things, how it will be done in the event of a war. The fact is that the law defines how it will work if the independence of the Republic of Croatia is compromised, if threatened... RH, if we're going to be, eventually we're being attacked, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here we are now in a situation where a country has been attacked that is only a few hundred miles away from us and I believe that we will have to manage the goods supply differently. You mentioned earlier that we currently have enough stock reserves for both our fellow citizens and for any humanitarian aid. However, since we know what the situation is about sowing and that we will have problems safely since, behold, it is not going in the right direction. Do you have any plans or do the government have any plans to do something about the fact that the situation is really extraordinary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94146	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94147	Uh, about the situation that's been here since this morning, I've said, uh, what we have in the balance sheet right now. The old law, which is still in force and new, clearly states that the Government can order natural and legal persons to produce literally stop production for something other than exclusively state products, clearly, to pay for it, in the event of a direct war threat. The government has always been able to react to crisis situations, if so far, we come to this situation that, apart from the stock supplies we have, we need to intervene, whatever you said and for sowing and for whatever else, the law and the current one can be used, the government can make a decision, clearly, it has to secure the funds because it can't tell someone, and I won't pay, and so in that part of this, we let You see what's going to happen, but [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The law is there to do that. [[Employee: Dear Representative Peric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94148	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Secretary of State, for the fact that stock stores contain goods for 50,000 residents for at least 15 to 60 days, and that is what the Government is very concerned about. Also, at the end of last year you donated over 4 million and 400,000 kunas to the goods of Caritas the Archbishop of Zagreb, so the fact that they are being renewed and taken care of precisely the goods that must be in the goods needed for food. What I'd like to point out is that it's five months away. In 2021 acquired over 986, it seems to me, that containers and houses, so very spotlessly reacted at those times when it was meant and very much, it's obviously more than obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94149	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94150	Thank you. As for our humanitarian aid, it has been a practice that has lasted for 10 years and it runs from 5 to 10 million kuna a year and not by the Caritas of the Zagreb Archbishop, it is, let's say, a carrier as a recipient, but then it is distributed throughout the Republic, to all the caritas, to all the merhamets, to all the Orthodox associations, so it is simply a good practice and we are very proud of it. And as for what you said, it wasn't easy to organize this whole thing, we organized ourselves, and thanks to a few Croatian extraordinary companies who managed to literally boost their capacities and build all these containers, here, today for God's sake, if you need a reaction, very quickly they could continue to produce it. Our warehouses are ready to accept this, all goods, 7 warehouses are ready and I think there's... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94151	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94152	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, and I would like to refer to the products that my colleague Škoro spoke of, baby food, baby food, hygienic cartridges, fish and fish processing. I don't know if my colleague Škoro has just passed these answers or has deliberately skipped to say, namely, these products can be found on the list, I believe they will be found on the list of strategic stock stocks, as it stands in response, it can be under item 1. 6 means other agricultural and food products designated by the Government of the balance sheet, and these non-food products may also be under point 8, other non-food products designated by the Government of the balance sheet. In response, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider all proposals for the adoption of a balance sheet in which goods are included by type, name and quantity, and should not be regulated by law, so I believe that these products will be found on the list of stocks, thanks to the Government and that balance sheet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94153	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94154	Thank you. Just to read the existing balance sheet. The fish cans in the existing balance sheet are set at 300 tonnes, and we have them at 216 tonnes. Fish, hygienic cartridges, children's diapers, incontinence diapers, are projected by balance, hygienic 20,000 pieces, baby diapers 5 grand, incontinence diapers 2,000 pieces, unfortunately we haven't gotten that yet, but we'll get that yet, but that's already in balance. So every public discussion of this guy and this assembly is enough for us to take care of when we adopt this law, let us put into effect a proposal for a balance sheet and we will surely appreciate it, and if we do not have any respect for it, we will have to have a serious explanation why we did not respect it, and I have already said that I think there is no reason not to respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94155	A respected representative, Vucimilovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94156	Thank you very much, dear President. I'm risking my warning knowingly and taking responsibility, calling for an article. 238, a colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, is on the list and may be on the list is not the same. I think we'll all agree that in situations like this, and this morning we witnessed a very serious situation between Russia and Ukraine, the beginning of the war, we have to think about the children, exactly the ones most endangered, so being on the list and might not be the same. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94157	As you were right, you know it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a warning. Now the replica will have a respected representative, Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. How important strategic stockpiles are, we don't have to talk about it and you're aware that this old law was obsolete and that it has to be adapted to new situations, that I don't now list all the other disasters that have hit us at this recent time. In order to ensure all of this, goods must be filled, and I see in this assessment the resources required to implement this new law that this, the most resources are provided from the state budget, and the necessary balance-depending means that, I see, that this is foreseen over a period of 10 years, that 600 million kuna is needed. Now, given these new situations, whether this amount will be sufficient further and in what way it will be raised, or whether it will change that amount of 600 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94159	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94160	Thank you for your question. What we projected here, we projected it according to real possibilities, that the state is normal, that the situation is regular and that there are no excesses. So we have actually projected for these years that are behind us, and in those years, the Croatian state has allocated 800 million kuna plus regularly in these 800 million kunas, we have not said what we have regularly filled and spent. That's plus, I'm the only one who mentioned it, so it's clear as a day that for the situation that if there's anything we need, that's why we've come up with the idea that keeping the money is meaningless. The functions of the Treasury and the functioning of the state budget today have a whole other logic, so we're just going into some regular procedure, for regular, and for extraordinary, then it's a state of emergency, and that's why the government is also managing supplies to say, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94161	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94162	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, of course this bill is much better than the one we've had so far. Today, stock stores no longer deal with the purchase of surpluses on the market, which created a big, big problem. I agree, too, with that being. 7, that this word can be left out, rather than remain that 3 parliamentary representatives plus two experts from that area form this Committee, that's, I mean, good. It certainly needs to be left behind and what is very important, Art. 11 is essentially defining what everything the government can do if it comes to, whether it's about natural disasters or war, so I think this is the way to something that's much better, more effective, faster, and in such situations, when something comes up, it needs to be quick and efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94163	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94164	More or less you said everything in your replica. We agree that if this intensity is that we can turn into an old formulation of the basics, that we are going to do it, here, right now, I can say that it will be in the second proposal and that we are not at all discussing it at all, and as far as this functionality is concerned, it is done in this Law so that no urgent action is justified in the procedural sense of the law. It's always based on the law because the law is old, current, said that the government can, must and should, and we here said that the government forms a balance sheet, and that extremely, exceptionally, that there would be no rule, free God, but it could exceptionally impose something past the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94165	Thank you very much. Now, I'm going to open the debate, and on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the first one will speak to the esteemed Anja Shimpraga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94166	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Not so long ago, we were struck by a number of hardships when the Directorate for Stocks took on a very important role in solving the effects of the earthquake. It is now the Director's Office for Stocks in troubled situations that is a key body that is working far from the light of the reflector and is preparing for troublesome situations. The reaction was generally spotless, and activity in recent years has been enhanced in other elemental disasters, for example, during the floods in Gunja or the slides in Sisak-Moslavina County. Strategic stockpiles are important and important from a number of points of view because of their social, social and humanitarian roles in each country, and these roles arise in exceptional situations. I wish there was an activation of the supply supply never even made it. The continued creation of strategic stockpiles contributes to the more efficient operation of the protection and rescue and sustainability system of the economy under difficult conditions. This is why the creation, maintenance, as well as the territorial distribution of strategic goods supply are of immeasurable importance to a country. Permanently available stocks ensure smooth and timely intervention and the elimination of consequences and exclude dependence on the market, the manufacturing sector, imports and international aid. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed some of the issues concerning the supply of goods, and for this very reason it is necessary to revise the current, currently in force, Stocks Act, which has been in force for 20 years, which has only been changed once. Because of its longevity, the Law has already become obsolete in a particular segment, especially in the section that envisioned what with the goods supplies that remained from the time of market functioning and what with operational supplies that no longer exist in our legislation. We have seen that the crisis in any form does not choose either place or time, and for this very reason, the Strategic Stocks Act needs to be adapted to the new challenges of frequent disasters, humanitarian crises in terms of the operationality of the adoption of balances and strategic stockpiles, the management of stock stocks, the faster filling and nomination of new possibly necessary products in the balance sheet of goods of strategic commodity stocks. It is also irrefutable to prescribe that long-term procedures and procedures in the Directorate's Office, when it comes to the management of commodity supplies and assets managed by the Directorate on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, receive adequate legal form through the regulations which will be prescribed by this new proposal of the Law. I think this law is more life-saving because it's more dynamic and it's better to follow the needs of the field. The list of goods will continue to exist and will be principled and cover a wide range of products, but in a different way by showing product groups, so that detailed individual products will prescribe a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, which will be brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry will propose to the Government a review of the balance sheet every 3 years. It is commendable to introduce new, along with earlier categories, medicines, vaccines, antidotes, sanitary and consumer medical materials, but probably what colleagues mentioned when it comes to newborns and hygienic cartridges. The keeping of the goods in money is abolished because it is from the position of the budget and the functioning of the supply supply needlessly and dysfunctional. All the goods provided for in the balance sheet are in goods and in accordance with the same, the balance sheet is filled in accordance with the financial opportunities of the budget, which is defined by the state budget, or budgets that follow through the years. It is commendable that the deadlines for the adoption of the annual programme and the submission of the report to HS on the state and management of the stock for the previous year to be submitted by the Government are clearly prescribed. It is clearly and unequivocally prescribed how the surplus revenues and receipts in the supply business will be achieved, meanings will be used to finance the complete supply of goods in accordance with the annual programme adopted, as well as to finance the costs of the stock trade, i.e. in relation to the purchase, sale and renewal of the stock. It is little doubt whether the amounts of penalties prescribed under this Act are sufficiently high in breach of the provisions to deter the conduct of the infringements of persons whose goods are entrusted to guard. The continued stockpiles ensure smooth and timely intervention and the elimination of consequences and exclude them from the market, i.e. the manufacturing and import sector. In addition, further creation of supply supplies in an indirect way contributes to the economic activity of the company through the purchase of goods and through the settlement of storage costs and the preservation of the quality of supply. From all the above,... is the importance of stockpiles in order to respond at any time to the challenges ahead of us, regardless of whether they are natural disasters or other crises, and the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this proposal in its first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94167	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the time will be shared by the respected representative Sacic and the respected representative Vucilović. First of all, the respected representative Sacic, Željko Sacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94168	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Here, unfortunately today we are witnessing that we must discuss such important topics as strategic stockpiles, at the moment the aggressor force, the force attacked Ukraine and with clear indications of further escalating the conflict. Therefore, Croatia as a NATO member can and certainly will suffer the severe consequences of the overall peace situation in Europe. Therefore, with great care, with extreme caution and with great, great exceptional responsibility, we must contribute, both to this debate and to the promoter himself, to the knowledge of what he must do, which all must meet the conditions for Croatian people not to be naked, barefoot, hungry, thirsty in moments of possible major crisis that threatens Europe, and the Republic of Croatia, with this set-off of events. As Croatians, the Croatian people were already in danger, they said from April 1st that they would gather, they had already accumulated life, but the gas supplies, that is, what our responsible services, both in Croatia and above all in the Zagreb area, the suppliers had not done their tasks. That gas itself without war in Ukraine would be terribly expensive because of unconscious work. Because criminally, not everyone responsible has done their job. Now, in particular, it binds us, so our only salvation is like Croatia that through the supply supply we can do so in art. 2, amortize these needs, and unfortunately for now only 50,000 people, there are 3.8 million people in Croatia, and here we based all on a micro-model of 50,000 people for 15 to 60 days, which has made it clear to us by itself that these are crucial moments, when we look at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. The day after the earthquake, we were paralyzed, let alone now when it comes, don't give God to any greater evil, so do everything you do to increase this level of supply in a way that we can act on a larger number of people. On the other hand, the balance and the concrete products that you are proposing should be extended to all levels, personally old, sick, children, as our colleague Škoro noticed, threatened, uh, and certainly kept in mind that the criminal abuses that we have witnessed so far have been a product because of this classification of data to state secret and various security obstacles, that many criminals have taken on Croatian property of goods which, in their balances, sold this and did not pay the goods in the state budget, so that in hundreds of millions, in 500 million kuna, the gang has been made rich, today these processes last, some have ended in ridiculous and judgments, and these companies have ended in fined bankruptcy, the wolf has eaten the donkeys, unfortunately. Now, you have to prevent something like this from happening and I'm looking at your, uh, criminal provisions, and it's incomprehensible to me why you've been learning, say, you have provisions there that a legal person who doesn't respect, commits a violation, I don't know, uh, because we don't allow insight, so don't store the goods, so the list of the goods we had and you don't have, you suggest that you punish from 10 to 30 thousand kuna, at the same time in Article 2 of that article you say a natural person and a natural person as a craftsman, a natural person who has... It will also be punishable for the same offence from 10 to 30 thousand, so that, you have to change it, so it's unmovable, it can't, criminal policy is such that it doesn't allow it, it's always legal people in a higher degree of responsibility than natural persons, so you have to do it, the most important thing is, take care of it, make sure you name the Director of the stock now, we have nothing to wait for, you said, the contest, it hasn't been appointed for six, seven months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do everything to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people, the black times are coming to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94169	Vucilović is continuing the debate of Croatian sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94170	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Stock stocks are now in times of crisis, in times of war, unfortunately we have been in those times for some time, since the health crisis started and problems in the economy, and unfortunately here we have a war on European territory after a long time. The price of gas has already jumped 35% on the stock market today, and it was already high. And we here have meaning in the supply of oil derivatives, they're introduced, but the gas is a very important energy. Now the question and the management of the warehouse, around, is that, we have passed certain laws, which may not be the most appropriate, the best, but the question is how much natural gas there is in the warehouse around, which is with Grubišno Polje, where the Grubišno Polje stage, is also going to be the possibility of gas storage, the gas in this green EU policy has become extremely important and I think we should seriously consider it. We see now in Zagreb when craftsmen got 4.5 times the price, bigger gas bills, how important it is. I will mention that the last sugar shop in Croatia uses gas, Petrochemy, etc., but also thermal power plants for electricity production. So, it's very important to think about it, whether it's in this context or someone else's, but here's the secretary of state who's dealing with the field of energy, so I have to point that out. With all this crisis where we're already having one because of this pandemic of coronary viruses, etc., we've got inflation. And what my colleague Ivanovic said is extremely important, the stock should also be served so that these market imbalances and surpluses are also bought in order to have the prices of strategic goods, and here I mainly think of cereals, food products, so that they do not get wild, because with this situation in Russia and Ukraine, we will see how much they will go up and the price of wheat and corn that will, consequently, drag everything else and the prices of meat and other food products. So this topic today is really of great importance because we are talking about what is crucial, which is strategically important for the sovereignty of each country, which is energy, that is food, that is, agricultural products and supplies must have and have exceptional importance. Besides, I'm going to look back a little bit on that, and it's calculating now and in public, as much as it is in stock. There's always something to speculate about, saying, so there's this stuff, so it's not, so it's just paper-based in silos, control of all of it is extremely important, but it's also not the same thing if we have 30 days or 3 months. So we see these crisis situations last a little longer, and the question is, what time do we have the supplies? Of course it would be better, if it were financially possible, if it were for 3 months, and not for 30 days, and that list of products would never be long enough and never comprehensive enough, but I appeal, here again, to think about all groups, the needs of all groups of people because when the stop-pani comes, then we are late, better to welcome it prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94171	Let's go back to the Proposal for the Strategic Stocks Act and now, if I am, I remember it well it's the turn of the MOST Club and Mr. Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94172	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. The Gordija Node continues on strategic goods supplies should be cut and disbursed in a way that supplies of medical equipment and supplies of materials for the reconstruction of Zagreb and Banovina are re-embarked under the Public Procurement Act and that they are removed from the supply of medical equipment because they no longer pose a threat to national security. At this point unfortunately, there have been two robberies in history since Croatia even existed. One through the procurement of medical equipment and the other through the procurement of equipment and materials for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and Banovina. Crossing the Gordian knot of strategic supplies will lead to new arrests of the type of Minister Coric, and only those who need to get out through the groat of corruption. We can agree that public procurement is not the best model of protecting the system from theft and corruption, but at least it is some protection mechanism to select the best and best quality performers in selecting suppliers in selecting selecting them in public tenders that are transparent. Why did the Government suspend public procurement and supply containers by a hasty procedure, and did not provide people with basic protection after the earthquake. This is where the secretary said they were up to something. I was personally on the ground where in Nebojan and May where people are not Gordani and the Adriatic heroines of the Homeland War waited 11 months for that service. The cheerleading groups' warehouses during the crisis functioned as the real strategic storage facilities of the type in Velika Gorica, while the headquarters and directorships, their stock warehouses were nowhere to be found. And the truth is that fans, volunteers from all over Croatia, the Chamber of crafts, companies and foreign governments managed our supplies with their donations, while the government and headquarters played white for the time being. Says the secretary of state that it's a procurement, a public procurement, and it's all within the law. You know who used to say that? The German state authorities. The decision by the government of the Republic of Croatia to suspend public procurement which has been interpreted as a high safety risk to the Republic of Croatia is at least odd, given that large-scale crime has taken place in the EU territory in relation to the supply of medical equipment. It was introduced to co-ordinate the INTERPOL action, which was called "Unmassified" or an mask, financial institutions and authorities across Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands, to discover a sophisticated scheme in the process of obtaining masks in which compromised e-mails, frauds with advances and, of course, money laundering were intertwined. In mid-March 2020, while many countries were quarantined for the outbreak of coronaryvirus, two fake companies from Zurich and Hamburg faked themselves to deal with the purchase of facial masks and contracted to German health authorities to sell masks worth 15 million euros. The matter was so serious that it had to interfere with Interpol and as Interpol fought and fought with criminal organisations that adapted their activities to take advantage of the global health crisis for theft and robbery, the government of the Republic of Croatia has placed a veil of secrecy for the purchase of medical equipment that has not been downloaded until today. Can you imagine the criminals that Interpol would find here in Croatia? And as things stand, there will also be work for Interpol when the veil of secrets is removed from the procurement of medical equipment in the Republic of Croatia. In order to exercise control over the management of HS stockpiles, the Council for Stock Stocks shall establish, on a proposal from the relevant HS Committee, a Trade Stocks Council consisting of three HS members and two experts in the area of the economy. What does this advice do and on what criteria are experts chosen? By what criteria are they paid, or by whom exactly they oversee it or, if it is known that medical equipment is secret, that this supply does not go through public procurement or that the purchase of materials and services for the reconstruction of Zagreb is also a secret, although the localities on which the stock stores are located are also a state secret? What they're watching, I honestly don't know. Of course, the question arises, does this mean that Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Anya Simpraga are sitting in that council, does this mean that they were secretly assigned to storage facilities, warehouses in the trade coalition, the same way that they were sitting next to each other as Horvat and Milosevic? This is where I ask the question, not address. Important question where's the potato? We've been looking at the items of purchase from 2021 and 2022. And what's startled us is that there's no potato anywhere. One of the most common foods potatoes, last fall and winter had a lot of problems. Due to the great drought in Međimurje and Lika, Croatia's largest producer pools of vegetables, production has been reduced this year and up to 70% in other parts of Europe have destroyed it. Now, 2021. Obviously, it was not good for potatoes on almost the entire continent, but why is there no room for potato planning in Croatia among strategic supplies? We also have the following issue and a revision that should be maintained every three years in accordance with the draft law. So in art. 5th century 3. The proposal for a strategic stock exchange law was proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia to review the balance sheet every three years. And point 2 is important for the debate in Art. No. 6th century No. 3. that certain assets of these stocks are realised by the sale of the stock. Now, as soon as there are stocks that have been marketed and the directorate is making revenues from the sale or donation of supplies of the container type, there must be an audit at least at the annual level, the sea. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As the secretary of state lied, the lack of income was achieved in relation to expenditures of HRK 26.5 million, and the same year 2019, why I am telling you this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it was authorised to supplement or replace certain goods in supplies sold 15 million liters of oil derivatives in total value of HRK 60 million. Now, they're sold at the stock market price, they say. Who's to guarantee that's how it was? A blank? Horvath? Milatic? Who says it was really the best price for Croatia since the audits proposed are every three years? Who was that oil sold to? Could it have been because of a bad sale that these oil derivatives have led to a loss? Then Mr. Milatic should be responsible for this loss. No one sees it, we audit every three years on a template. So this question is being raised and it is not weird because here we had had the ability to have Zagreb authorities and people who know how to do timely gas purchases would not have found themselves in a situation where Zagreb must buy gas now on the spot markets and at very high prices and someone will have to answer for it, because that price will also be felt in the pockets of our citizens. So, strategic stocks are indeed one of the most important indicators of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but when you have secrecy, when you have the most important segments of procurement being done outside of public procurement at the moment, when the biggest robberies that are yet to be investigated are taking place, and that is how it shows one Germany that has also fulalala or hired firms that do not exist and paid 15m euros, and we here propose to review every 3rd year, so who will control all these processes, who will control those warehouses, who they have been given to, that we know that there was no possibility of giving these storage sites to the Republic when it's all a state secret. We don't know what we really know is that we're not going to accept this bill and because of these objective facts that are really a problem, so I think we need to change that because we don't want new corrupt affairs, but we want a transparent public procurement for the reason that, here's what's going on in Ukraine and Russia, if we don't do it now, then I really don't know what we should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94173	- Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Rauhar Gamulin will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94174	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a terrible coincidence that just today on the day of the Russian attack on Ukraine we are discussing the proposal of the Strategic Stock Difference Act at a time that some compare to 1.9.1939, indeed a minimum that we must be prepared for a large wave of refugees, people who escape from the horrors of war, and that is why we have to be prepared to accept people in distress, and this requires, among other things, great engagement amongst others, the directorship of the stockpiles and the preparation for the acceptance of such a large number of refugees. So, problems and affairs in the management of strategic stockpiles so far have been the last in the event of a devastating earthquake in Bani when no necessary tents and other needs were delivered at the time and when there were continuing problems with delivery and communication. At this dramatic moment, it is necessary and necessary to provide maximum supplies for refugees from Ukraine, but also for our citizens because the consequences of the war are already being poured into our economy, including the energy situation. For starters, we'd look back at the article. The 3rd law, which states in St. 1. on the use of commodity supplies in the sense of emergency aid to countries in cases of humanitarian aid disaster, and in the event of the participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. We suggest that emergency assistance be provided in situations where we are not militaryly present in peace and humanitarian operations, but we are present with our civilian component i.e. when civil society organisations work in the field. We believe that we are underusing our civilian capacities to send to peacekeeping and humanitarian missions, and this would create assumptions for stronger involvement of civilian capacities in these missions. The second thing that remains unclear from the proposal of this law is how the members of the department of supply, which are criteria for membership in the directory, are elected and which is why it is not prescribed by this law and therefore we propose that these things be precisely defined in the final proposal. The novelty to be welcomed, which brings this new proposal, is to include in the list of products with food and accommodation essential equipment and materials for the care of citizens in the case of natural and other disasters such as basic medicines, vaccines, antidotes and sanitary and consumer medical materials that are of course necessary for people's lives. However, we also consider it necessary to include in the list of goods that may constitute strategic stockpiles also hygienic material with an emphasis on the hygienic needs of women, cartridges, and tampons that have, in all previous crises, proved to be deficient, of course, as well as specific children’s food, a specifically lactic powdered preparation of milk. formula and factory milk preparation ready to use, it's this... This is known for newborns and infants who are not breast-feeding the only adequate source of milky food for up to 12 months. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, this has been resolved by various donations from abroad and donations from citizens, and that is where we come to our greatest concern about this law. As it is now described, it does not rely on or fit in any way, does not fit the civil protection system, and goods stocks are crucial in the situations of natural disasters that should be managed by civil protection. And that is why we propose that the law be done in a way that clearly connects to the civil protection system. In this context, it would be better to manage stock supplies with the help of warehouses and civil protection resources rather than pay private companies storage jobs. This is what we say: disorientation of storage services can turn into a risk of stock supply management and we are committed to strengthening the capacity of civil protection for the management and storage of supply supplies. The possibility of better cooperation with food producers, hygienic consumer materials and the like should not be excluded. Namely, one option is to, for example. Food cans are stored in the very warehouse of the company that manufactures that food. In this way, a timely replacement of food would also be ensured and would not, would not, would not, come at risk due to the expiry of food deadlines from the stocks. These companies, because they will have contracts to produce a larger quantity of food, should also be obliged to store food because they have storage facilities and there would be no need to rent additional storage facilities. Furthermore, the government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to report to the Croatian Assembly once a year on the state and management of stock supplies, so once by 31 October of the current year. So far, we have had a lack of unequal treatment. Namely, reports on the state of supply management for 2015 and on the 16th Parliament discussed only 9.3.2018 with a delay of one and a half years or half years after the prescribed deadline. It was then similar with the report for 2017, 2019. Only for 2018 was discussed in the Assembly in time. So we appeal that these reports are delivered within the legal time limit. But that is why, as well as that the Parliament has a better overview of the situation in the goods stocks, we believe that it is necessary to preserve the standard of the previous law to exercise control over the management of the goods supply by the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, to establish a Council for Stocks. As I have already said, the new law prescribes only a academic, therefore an optional obligation that the Croatian Parliament can, which means that it does not have to set up a Council for Stocks to exercise control over the management of the goods supply. Our political-management system for the past 30 years has shown one, unfortunately, clear rule that the lack of supervision has always produced excess affairs. And I must say, in the explanation of Mr. Secretary of State, that the Parliament in former councils has not carried out its duty is unacceptable. If a person does not perform his duty, he needs to be made even more legally bound, not by a line of light resistance, simply giving the possibility that there is no parliamentary oversight of such important matters as the supply of goods. For this reason, the Green-Left bloc club believes that it should not give up the mandatory and permanent parliamentary supervision of the strategic goods supply via the Council for Stocks of the Croatian Assembly. Here we hope that you will take into account our proposals and include them in the final draft of the law and allow me once again to express on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club and on your own behalf solidarity with all citizens and citizens of Ukraine. From this point on, we're calling on all state stations to engage in maximum refugee reception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94175	Mr. Škoro means in front of the Club of Representatives "For Righteous Croatia", please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94176	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We are not satisfied with the way stockpiles in the Republic of Croatia are working in the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. At the end of the line and this proposal of the Strategic Stocks Act, there is a shortage, and I have shown you in my replica one of them where you had no answer, as no man, or secretary of state, who defended the Transport Safety Act, will measure the speed of the rhombus. So these are practical things and I'm always about to talk a lot and try to make these laws as effective as possible and that after that in the application of any law no one has to go further to college, extra education, that they don't have to write booklet interpretations, but let's be practical and effective. And the best way to talk about both the law and the ministry and the department of supply is an example of a concrete one, and we unfortunately had several in the past months and years. So, I often go to Banovina. I was there the first day of the earthquake on December 29, 2020, the second, however long it took. And we really organized a lot of things, and the state was late. And you can't tell me that it isn't, because in order not to be some grandmother, a rotten midwife flax, I looked at a December 2020 "Hatter in Croatia" press. A quick assessment of the damage and the need for 208 pages of printing was published by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Google it, it's online, and it says that 43,000 objects were damaged in that earthquake, that the damage was cca 40 billion kuna. It says 5 billion euros, but I translated it. One and a half million people are exposed to the earthquake either. Fifteen thousand people have been temporarily displaced. And so, it needed containers, needed aggregates, food, hygiene supplies, beds, fuel, water. The information you provide says that on December 29, 2020, 8 drinking water tanks were delivered in earthquakes, each carrying 7,000 liters. It's 0.04 liters per person because there's a million and a half inhabitants who need that water. Stock supplies must be able to react immediately. I expected to establish a parameter, no inside, no outside. He could've walked in and done whatever he wanted. There was also a robbery. You delivered 317 beds, 3000 liters of diesel fuel and then 30 and 31 December 21 housing containers to 15000 people displaced and to 43,000 damaged objects. You couldn't have known that then, but you delivered what you had. You had 21 containers. Now it could be an earthquake, now here's what I'm saying. We may need a lot of things. Do we have that? You've delivered 45 aggregates as long as they can and for how long they can work, 200 beds, 1 tons of meat-cutting and 2,000 whole-day dry meals, that's it. And then we're in the field, the cheerleading group, like this, it doesn't matter how people organized for a 10-day time there was no one there then came up to be a Player, unmanage me freely, but I don't think you'll be able to. So you proved and showed that you were unable to provide housing containers for families who had lost their homes in the earthquake. Of the total I read again your data 298 residential containers at the disposal of the earthquake ministry affected by Petrinja and Clay, as I said, has arrived 21. The question is, why is that? Why? So you say you and you're right Croatia is already affected by the pandemic of the coronary virus and the migrant crisis, and therefore much of the containers are placed outside hospitals, on the state border, etc. and you're absolutely right, but isn't it the role of the supply department to continuously monitor the stock situation and supplement those supplies. That's the basic thing to me. Here's the thing. Here's the thing. It means he'd deny you again in the fact that you're doing something, but whoever can predict the earthquake, so no one can, but the D.O.P.R. on October 23rd told you that by now, that's when you spent 212 containers. So, in October 137 containers were set up for a health protection measure from Covida-19, and 75 was set up to accommodate people after the earthquake in Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County. So that's what it says, so it says October, and this one, and they also say that the purchase of additional containers was launched on December 22, 2020, the figures don't count. So someone who's following it there, I don't know, doesn't follow it well. And now what I mean is we're all interested in colleague Raukar noticed and what I asked you. So now that you're doing it, yeah, I don't know this list of goods that make up the strategic stock, so it's gonna be the government that makes up the balance sheet of the strategic stock. And we noticed the same, that because it was a public debate, so one comment is where are you so-called. formulas and hygienic cartridges, and the answer is we will follow and change needs due to various changes in society. What this biological process must happen and that the child no longer spends the formula without women of childbearing age needing hygienic cartridges and everything else they need. So don't follow well enough. And I think this is a good-looking occasion, and it also coincided with the unfortunate aggression of Russia against the sovereign land. We felt it, the eyes of all Ukrainians are now pointing at the international community as ours were, as were Poland to help them. Scary and scary pictures are already coming. They're killing people. So tell us, dear Secretary of State, if Croatia is ready, are the stock supplies ready for a possible blow. If we have enough gas, energy, oil has gone already over $100. Generally speaking, when it comes to that oil, I'm old enough to remember when she used to be not know 150-60 dollars for a barrel that we returned the price of a liter of fuel to an 8-point and some kuna. Last night I'm looking great at a gas station called $12.5. And the Pope's cat is all over the story who? State, over 60% takes. Why? He needs to feed all that stuff together. So tell us if we're ready for it. And the other thing I'm often in Petrinja, people out there don't know, they see me on TV, and then they ask me when I'm gonna do something, and they don't know I can't do anything, they can just come here and stand in corn, but at least I'm telling you. So, is the situation that's been going on for months now and even years in the earthquake of affected areas well done, the work done when it comes to stockpiling because the hand-to-heart impression is that people in Banovina won't even feel that Minister Horvat has been arrested. So, for them nothing's happened so far, it won't happen from now on. And there's one more thing I have to tell you, I was in this container house next to which is the center of a new life, it's in Petrinja. This center of new life is a container building reportedly spent nearly 70 million kuna. I ended up, I accidentally finished the building, so I'm gonna say something, so there's a container inside that's covered with knauf, the first year of college means the outside is being placed insulated, not on the inside. And the other thing is containers or containers that I was in were somewhere around 15 squares, living one gentleman along with another gentleman, there's some bulkhead, very little help for cooking and sanitary knots. They have big problems, we thank Turkey for the gift of these containers, but there are squatters inside, so people have found their way and redecorated it in these containers alive. These aren't containers from our stock, they're containers from Turkish stockpiles. I'm not calling you, I'm not telling you anything personal, but I'm talking about the fact that we've been living in difficult times and that in the last few years we've been able to see how things work. Believe me, this law can be a good opportunity to fix it and act like a courteous and normal country that takes care of its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94177	Mr. Zeljko Lenart will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94178	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, we often take lightly the meaning of the stock reserves and the debate on the stock reserves until the worst happens. Here we had the opportunity to see an earthquake in Petrinja in Sisak-Moslavina County, which means having well-organised or poorly-organised stock reserves, how much, if it takes a bad time to start something, and how many countries that are organized may have intervened before our stock reserves and helped those who have been killed, those who have been threatened. The threat can be even bigger, here's what's happening right now in Ukraine, the question is where is the end of it, God didn't let us get hit by such an accident in which our stock reserves will melt within a few days. What's interesting about our stock reserves, the data I could find, that they have 62,312 tons of wheat, that might look this much, but when you share it with the population, that's 15,5 kg of wheat per capita or about 11 kg of flour per capita. They say the stock reserves have 475 tons of pork and 1014 tons of junet, if they were to, that means somewhere about 1.5 million pounds of meat, if you were to share it with the residents, it would be 2.5 kg per capita. And now here's how long we can last as a state in some kind of threat. We also have experience from past times at the beginning of this country's creation and functioning when simply missing stock reserves, when the fossils were placed down in Đakovština, up a little bit of wheat, and a silo below is empty. Since the stock reserves are covered by a veil of secrets very difficult to know how much there is in fact, we can hardly control it and since here in this law is the amount of fines for infringements are too low for me because this is a strategic matter of the stock reserve, it depends on them whether tomorrow someone is going to be hungry, whether they will survive or not, and I believe that for those who break the law on commodity reserves, those who embezzle or in any way do not harm them that they should be far more severely punished because it is a strategic interest of the Republic, and playing with strategic interests is high treason of Croatian interests for me. Oil, oil, gas, I don't think I want to talk about it. We have a gas storage facility in the environment that's about to consume Petrochemy in one year means it's not enough to meet the needs of the Republic of Croatia for gas. We put our gas in the hands of others, our oil too. Here I am in this crisis driving by Ivanic every week, all the oil pumps are standing, but that's worth it to us when we don't manage any refinery just so that we have enough oil supplies to process them for us. So the management of the stock reserves, but the management of the state is closely linked, and if the bad lords of the state's resources, then the stock reserves are in poor shape. We are not so far in agricultural production, especially food products because it turns out that of some 500 million supplies of about 270 million waste on food and agricultural products. Instead of trying to find the measures that our stock reserves will be sufficient to produce, to stimulate our agricultural producers not to sell their product immediately after the combination, I have suggested here in the debate on the Agricultural Strategy Act to finance and co-finance producers who do not have their own storage facilities, the storage of their products if they do not want to sell them immediately, it would be useful for these producers to sell, for example, corn in 6 months when its price is significantly higher, but it would also be some kind of stock reserves and supplies that the RH would have in its condition. There's obviously no hearing about it, so it's not going to happen. I appeal to all those who deal with the stock reserves, who manage the stock reserves, now we see that we will set up another advice, that this, management and state of the stock reserves be transparent precisely for HS. I think that the representatives who raise their hands and pass laws should certainly know important information, especially from the strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia, how many supplies we really have and why these supplies are too small for us, and here from this calculation that you don't need to be a genius is seen that this is too little for, in a week, let alone for some long time if there is a major disturbance, and the times are such that, due to the climate change, because of the earthquake, here and the wars nearby in Croatia can happen, and for the stock reserves, it is also important how much our production is in the most basic, which is the least we invest and what we least stand for. We know that when a global, global war occurs or a global threat that other countries will normally keep to themselves that they will certainly not give them to us. Here's someone who wrote that we don't need to be afraid, I'm going to caricate a little because we're a member of the EU, so the EU has a fund for such opportunities, so if something happens to us, that's where they're going to help us. I will remind you of a saying by Stjepan Radic, who says, “You have eaten him who is waiting for bread from someone else’s bag.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94179	Mr. Ante Sander will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Vice-President's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is how my colleagues said that the debate on this agenda was right on the day of the attack on Ukraine, the invasion made by the Russian Republic and that in such situations, we remember the time when Croatia was attacked and when we were in a situation to save the country and the lives of our fellow citizens. On these and such occasions, normal people feel and sympathise with the attacked, but also think about these moments so that today is just the current debate about state stock reserves like I am a fireman as you know, and then people think about the fire only when he comes, then everyone asks where the firemen are and how they are equipped and what they have on their equipment and whether they have good vehicles. That's how we do today when we're discussing stockpiles here at the moment I say and the attacks then we think about how we're prepared for it. Stock supplies and stockpiles are active in this country and is actively regulated by the normative legislation of our Homeland War itself from the days and moments when we needed the most goods supplies. And a number of experts, directors, because he worked in stock stores, there was also a failure as to how it should be said here before, to talk about it openly, but to get out of it experience. However, here is how you heard I am, by decision and your choice here, along with my colleague, Shimprag, and Honored Representative Daniel Spajic, a member of the Committee on Stocks on behalf of this HS. And in what we're familiar with, how much we work there because we've been working with people from the Department of Stocks, I can commend these people, here's Mr. Juric on behalf of the people who work there and who have made their contribution and managed the stock quality. I'm sure on duty critics will always find ways and reasons to criticize something, that something was wrong. All good criticism is positive and they help to improve the work of stockpiles. We, on the advice, discuss in such a way, and as you know, the advice is drawn from both opposition representatives and representatives of the ruling and there is an open debate, we point to what we think and how qualified and professional we are in the section of work with stockpiles, the people who run it. So I say here and thank the people who work there, through Mr. Juric with a small team of people who manage and work to secure these stock supplies for our country of Croatia. Today we have a law here that is also trying to improve the work of stockpiles, and in this sense we should discuss the law crucially and what the proposal for a new law offers. Some colleagues have also looked back on this and I will briefly go through what is both meaning and reason, today should be our main reason for our debate, so here if we go through what we have and notice something that we have already heard as remarks. I would say that in the new Strategic Stocks Act and the proposal of the Strategic Law, it has brought new solutions that should be praised and seen if they are experienced, that these solutions or new proposals for solutions offered in this proposal have come out of experience, long-term experiences that people who work and who are professional in working with supply supplies here presented through the new bill, and here it is nice and through individual debates that we will have the opportunity to discuss these new things that have been adopted. I would especially point out here in art. 1. A new item is added which I think is quality because it is said that goods are of public interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is important to stress that this is an area of public interest which we know, but the laws so far have not been defined because it creates the safety of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. is added sub-assembly 2, here is certain and based on the experiences that we experienced in this pandemic and epidemic time where, surely seven years ago, we couldn't imagine for sure that a pandemic like this could happen in the area of the whole world and that the whole of the world stood for one such accident. And it is good that it is specified in subparagraph 2 of this Article. 2. and now all the new circumstances that may be the reason that we have the supplies secured. The word amortization is out, which is good. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5. stockpiles are also based on what is provided for in Article 5. 2. They predicted that in addition to agricultural, food, non-food products, they consist of also medicinal products, vaccines, anti-toxins, sanitary consumer medical materials. It went deep with this because here we hear daily or we can online see that some new pandemics are being predicted. I don't believe that any of us are expecting to witness today a new attack like this against a sovereign state because after II. The world war was not such an attack, including the normal Homeland War, which was a similar scenario, but it was well planned for all of this in Article 7 here was said, a colleague from the Green-Left bloc was talking about the issue of advice that exists, which we have chosen means in this way, in the beginning and this calls out to the Croatian Parliament and I agree with my colleague and we will support it on behalf of the club because we believe that there can be no formulation but I think that this is the way, not because I am there tomorrow there will be someone else, that the Croatian Parliament through this advice has insight into what is done in the stockpiles, so we will also support this proposal to, that in the new bill in another reading, it goes with the suggestion that the Croatian Assembly is set up as a tip for stock supplies as well as in this existing law. Furthermore, Article 8(3) has defined the balance sheet issue and that the balance sheets are now providing and resolving the issue of all the necessary items in the stock. The Director's Office here is listed an article perhaps on which I have also personally, here we haven't discussed it yet, but we will give our opinion, the directorate may exceptionally in the case of Article 2 of the Law, under the orders of the competent civil protection authority and national security to obtain goods that are not foreseen by the balance sheet, that is Article 5 again in paragraph 4, I think this one should be here to think of the Secretary of State which is not mandatory, but since I am a fireman then I think that, you know that the basic pillar of civil protection is a fire organization, and that this one should be here with civil protection because we are the meaning of the State, based on a new law on firefighting, a new fire department reform would establish a competent, central state fire department that has, its head is the chief fire commander and has the status of the State Secretary, I think it would be good to include that, along with civil protection, and the Croatian fire-fighting community in the context, because it is a normal national. It is known that first came the firemen and these emergency services and there is no need for the firemen to wait for the civil protection to rise, it rises in the second degree or national security, and immediately these powers can do so by the competent national fire department to have the head of the Croatian fire department or the chief fire department as the steel of that central state fire department so that it can make a request especially for the fire department, I do not mean other things, but the lifting of the tanker's supply supply means that people are not waiting for other competent bodies, civil protection and national security, and so that they can give it to the Croatian Fire Department. And here we mostly support all these other proposals that are listed in these amendments to the law and the HDZ Club will support this bill with these things that we have given you as our opinions and what some colleagues have previously made as a proposal, and so we support that, so here in this sense I expect you will take into account in the second reading and that you will foresee this in the new bill that you will bring to us in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94181	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić, in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94182	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democrats Club believes that, given the changed circumstances of business and the functioning of business entities, regardless of which branch of business we are talking about, it is necessary to adopt a new Strategic Stocks Act. This is even easier to accept if we know that the law currently in force was passed in 2002. We also know what manipulations of stockpiles occurred in the not-so-time past when, for example, 18000 tonnes of grain disappeared from the stock reserves. During the investigation into the affair, it turned out that the grain was bought by large business entities from Croatia, and also in the court epilogue, these entities were not even punished symbolically. In fact, their defence was that they did not know that they were buying stolen grain even though they were buying it at twice the price of the current commercial or market price. And such events and procedures are also one of the reasons for the new Strategic Stocks Act. It is of paramount importance that the law well defines all circumstances and cases that arise when managing strategic reserves, as it will be easier to define sublegal acts and rules to be adopted by the Registrar. It is difficult to interpret certain provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act bill unless the business processes that take place in the management of the stock reserves are well known, but we believe it is of utmost importance that the territorial distribution of the stock reserves is well defined, especially in light of today's events almost in our neighborhood. Of course, I mean the invasion, the disgraceful invasion of Russia into Ukraine. Let's not forget that the territory of the country in which the conflict takes place is divided by only one state, and I think that's an additional challenge for the management of goods, goods supplies. It is also extremely important for us to be transparent in the part of the purchase, sale and renewal of stock reserves or supply supplies, regardless of the goods. As a result, on the board, we and club presidents have asked questions related to this part of the law, and we have been particularly interested in provisions relating to the balance sheet which has actually remained for the creation, renewal, use of stockpiles and the provision of storage space for the accommodation and storage of supply. Why is that particularly interesting to us? Because I have also noted in my question that the confusing provision is related to the annual programme to be adopted for the current year by 31 January of the current year, which is adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the balance sheet. Our questions and discussions were related precisely to the stated date until which the annual programme was to be adopted and we expected that these discussions would take place, but there are no amendments proposed. In particular, since the annual programme determines the type, name, quantity and estimated value of the goods making up the stock, which is obtained and renewed and the financial plan of the Directorship for the supply, sale and renewal of the stock, the amount and resources of the necessary resources for the implementation of the annual plan, i.e. the programme. We proposed that the proposed programme be adopted before the state budget was adopted. It is that one of the sources of funding needed for the implementation of the annual programme and the state budget, and we still think that it would be good to define the annual programme before the adoption of the state budget, so that MPs in the Assembly know what they are voting for, that is, to know before the adoption of the state budget, what they will obtain and in what quantities. It's clear to me that we can't know that in grams, it's clear that we can't know exactly the specification of all the goods, but I think that it can be presented in an indicative manner and the amounts that we're going to vote on later. So it's important for us to be as transparent as possible, and that would only mean that this annual programme is brought two months earlier, nothing more. It means to switch from 31 January to that date, to transfer by 31 November at the latest, and actually at the moment of budget adoption, we have accurate data or indicative data on what is expected or expected from the budget. And I think that would contribute far more transparently to the management of stock stocks, given that one part spent from the budget, I think it's extremely important for us to know how to spend and why it's being spent. This is also important because of the fact that the excess income and receipts made in the stock supply business are used to finance the complete supply of goods in accordance with the annual programme adopted, as well as to finance the costs of the supply business, i.e. in relation to the purchase, sale and renewal of goods supplies, and the financial loss in the supply business and the costs associated with the supply business are actually burdened by the source of ownership of the Republic of Croatia at its disposal. As a result of all this, we believe that the proposed change would greatly contribute to the transparency of the operation of supply management and, in a large part, remove doubts about the functioning of the Directorate and help to make timely decisions with the aim of creating optimal supplies of satisfactory quality at the minimum cost of supply and the cost of managing the stock. Here's to a little dyspression. As of this morning, the price of wheat has increased sharply, the price of gas has risen 30%. So it is extremely important that the strategy adopted by the Government and the strategy adopted by the Directorate is ultimately based on the annual plan that this can be changed in a short time and adapted to the current conditions that are here at present are not exactly the most favourable. I must point out that I have already, and later, mentioned in my reply the secretary that we know that when it comes to war that we are talking about aggression in Croatia, that we are talking about war only in case our borders and our integrity are being put into danger. However, given that this war is very close, that there are several hundred kilometers from us, I think we will have to take some steps on these stock reserves as well. Of course this is not contained in this law, which is understandable, but I believe certain steps will be taken. Those amounts that were mentioned there were dissonant tones that we don't know how many stock reserves, what amounts, what value of the stock reserves I have to say for the truth that we actually have almost every year several times in the newspapers and in the daily reports, what is the value of the stock reserves plus, minus some percentage of the million. But we've heard that these stock reserves are moving depending on what's going on. I think in 2021 they moved somewhere around 600 million kuna, 593, correct me if I'm speaking wrong. So it wouldn't be good if we misinformed the public. You know what to do, as far as it goes, it's all clear and I'm saying our proposal is on the table with the goal of even increasing transparency right at the decision-making stage. We find that interesting, so that our representatives and later our fellow citizens know what we voted for and how we were actually trying to draw attention to certain problems. I'm going to say a few more words later, which I don't think is good, and I think this is enough for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94183	Ms. Marijana Puljak will speak on behalf of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94184	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today, the Strategic Stocks Act, which must certainly be adapted to new conditions. We live at a time of global pandemic in times of environmental disasters, humanitarian crises, and it is true that the law needs to be adapted to all this. Emergency procedures should be defined so that there are no false interpretations, there is no clarity as to whose responsibility, so that stocks can be quickly filled out and exactly what products, etc. It is especially important on this day as I said earlier to talk about goods supplies, 500 km away from Croatia started a war this morning, Russia attacked Ukraine, a war that can be shed very easily and very quickly on us. We've heard of a Russian president who's threatening anyone who intends to interfere with that conflict. There is no doubt that a major humanitarian crisis awaits us, so we must prepare ourselves, so all of our resources are prepared to accept refugees. According to some estimates, several million people will flee from Ukraine, so we have a responsibility and as a country that passed a similar situation 30 years ago, survived, survived the Homeland War, and has experience in such disasters to take over some of these refugees and provide all humanitarian aid to the civilian population, of course within our capabilities. This is why it is important to discuss exactly the goods supply, it is important to talk about whether we are ready to accept refugees, or we will cough up like we did with the reactions to the earthquake in Zagreb and in Banja, and we did. So let's not bend the facts now and say that there were no mistakes or problems. So we're aware of a series of problems that we had at the time, containers that we didn't even know how many of them we had available, if we had them, and then they reacted to associations of entrepreneurs, citizens, civil society associations reacted faster than the state in its supplies. According to the list, we should have had enough tents, sleeping bags, but we also asked for tents and sleeping bags from Slovenia, from Greece. How we live in a society that has no trust in the institutions of this country, there is no trust in the supply system either. Why is that? Is it the people's fault now, or is the people taught some examples of life? As I said, the journalists said in a report, so the history of independent Croatia is marked by scandals related to the state of supply. There have been various charges filed, conducted trials, investigated over empty warehouses, scandalized over false charges, but nothing has worked to get to work and state warehouses finally lead to the situation as prescribed by the law. We also see from the reasoning of the law that the legislator is aware of these many problems and numerous affairs, and here as I said before in the replica you have a sentence, it is only during 2001. sales of wheat on the domestic market and exports carried out without any problems and affairs. So the bill promoter is also aware of the loose affairs in this area. How did it work in the pandemic? We can also see information on closed transactions on web sites without applying the procurement process, and they have agreed to deal with half a billion kuna. The list shows that the business of selling 1.5 million rapid antigen tests in November 2021 received the company MEDICAL AND PHARM TRADING from Pula only four months after the company was registered, with it the government intended to make a 19 million kuna deal, but more quickly withdrew because, fortunately, we received some donation at that time. However, this company is still taking place during 2020. found in collaboration with stock stocks, among the first dozen companies that made the most income from the stock market. And, behold, the owners of the company are young doctors whose aunt is a HDZ member. You still have to go back in the history of '96, Vladimir Seks presided over a parliamentary commission founded on suspicion that grain supplies are being inflated, and then sold below the price to private companies. It was being studied by this state urinal and Ivica Racan in 2000. discovers that there are goods in the warehouses that do not belong in supplies like a million liters of wine, but also less than 110,000 tons of wheat. Then Ivo Sanader in 2003. He intended to send humanitarian aid to an earthquake in Iran, however, it turned out that there was no supply of what was supposed to be there. He also promised to settle the situation, but only in 2011. We've been waiting for USKOK to press charges against six defendants because of the grain shortages. So to move on, there was a period of peace after that year 2011. It was said that supplies are being renewed and that they serve the needs of the earthquake. At that time, Ivan Vrdoljak's ministry explained, but here came the 2020 earthquake. And we didn't react or the state didn't react properly. Therefore, the link between HDZ and commodity supplies has been revealed by the media on the example of cooperation with Slavonia Zupanja, which until 2016. was employed by former Head of the Department of Stocks Damir Juzbasic, who was resolved in June of last year, registered as independent and today is the independent mayor of Župa. So, numerous affairs that destroy citizens' trust in this entire system. Not to mention, here I have the entire file of numerous affairs, not to mention these 5,000 suits, belts and hats that were obtained for civil protection. The belt was costing 330 kuna, and the same belt was paying for 100 kuna, then you had some departments that were purchased for 1,700 kuna, other civil protection departments were getting them by the looks of 270, so a series of affairs that are shaking our stock, and that is why we suspect that today we are in the wake of this humanitarian crisis ready to accept and refugees, and ready not to give God a reaction to the threat that will happen and that will hit the whole of Croatia and our citizens. I'm going to join here with the remarks we've heard so far about giving advice for stockpiles in art. 7. must not stand that it can be founded by HS but must be founded. I'm glad to hear that the majority club will support that request. Infringements are really low, penalties for a legal person from 10 to 30,000 kuna are really funny for a physical amount of 5 to 15,000 kuna, and we're talking about strategic stockpiles, something that affects the security and security system of the state. One thing I find strange about this whole thing, so it's in art. 4th stockpiles are said to be managed by the government, and the affairs of the state administration, the purchase of supply supplies, storage, leases, etc. performs the principalship, and then later in art. The 20th inspection is again doing the same principalship as that of the cadium and the judge, the cadium and the prosecution, and it judges whether, as it is said, he who manages and oversees himself, therefore it simply cannot be. And I'm also joining an objection that says that we don't know on what principle this principalship is chosen by, it's some kind of administrative organization within the Ministry of Economy, but so who chooses the Director and how. The basic question, therefore, after all these remarks on this day, remains so from this morning on, everything is different, the world as we knew it so far is completely changing, the war is back on the territory of the European continent, and the fundamental question is whether we have raised the level of readiness, whether we are aware of the security threats, whether we are aware of the humanitarian disasters that threaten us, whether you have acted in accordance with Article. 17. The existing law 13 according to this new one, which is that supplies must be renewed, so are we ready or are we going to cough again like in cases of earthquakes in Zagreb and Banja and wait for citizens to self-organize. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94185	Thank you. Mr. Branko Grcic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94186	The Strategic Stocks Act could also be called the Solidarity Fund Act modelled by the EU, or perhaps the Emergency Fund Act, because what is now in the law actually defines that this fund, or this problem of managing strategic commodity stocks, is primarily aimed at addressing the consequences of extraordinary circumstances, those who are concerned, so how does it say in the law here that, yes, to quote. So, the state of war, in particular, special circumstances involving events that could not be predicted or influenced, which threatens the life and health of citizens, such as covid or, say, natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. Why am I particularly pointing that out? Well, because I miss what some speakers used to say before me, and these are extraordinary circumstances that arise, for example. By the inflation that is currently present with us, these latest developments have now pushed this aside, but the problem will be even more pronounced in the coming months, especially if these wars and these political crises persist. Just take an example of oil, so here it's explicitly in the law talking, now I'm going to tell you which article, so... 3., stockpiles cannot be used to remove instability disorders on the market in the Republic of Croatia. It's thought of economic flows. That is, therefore, the intention that this aspect of any intervention related to goods, strategic stockpiles is eliminated, which I don't know if it's quite clever. The whole law in the introduction, therefore in that opening part of the explanation, speaks of this particular aspect and the role of the strategic stock in history, but it seems to me that much too much is focused only on wheat and all the affairs that stemmed from the management of buying and selling and reselling to say wheat. So wheat is not the only strategic resource economically that would play a role in correcting certain market-related problems. The latest example is, so I'm going to tell you a very plastic example, a restriction on the price of oil derivatives. If the State intervenes and wishes to limit the price of oil derivatives primarily on the burden of entrepreneurs engaged in production or, above all, in the distribution of oil and petroleum products, it must be prepared to at some point if it enters the area too much so that whoever offers this oil on the market could reduce it, because it simply does not pay to place certain energies on the market if their price is limited and if they cannot survive, then they would knowingly create losses for themselves, for themselves. So when a country enters such an instrument then it must have something on the other hand that can help to implement such a measure, and that is nothing better than a strategic supply. Okay, come on, you'll explain this later, and we'll probably clear this up, and it'll be a clearer situation for us all. But I'm saying, here's where some of my predecessors also pointed out that, and I think that needs to be cleared up. What I can see from the data in the Report on Strategic Stocks and from this debate on this law was a lot of problems in history, and one particular piece of information about this is that at this point there are about 400 million kunas of different claims that will probably never be resolved positively for the state I mean it. Even in that 400 million you have about 200, 210 million interest. I don't know what was done in the meantime last year, because we haven't seen the report yet, but it's saying enough about how deep the situation has been in history and how much trouble it's caused. The question, of course, is how much will this law contribute to avoiding such problems in the future. I'm not sure. I'm particularly worried about saying that word of strategic stock. Is this really a story of strategic stockpiles? It is known what has a strategic weight, and what has a weight of help, solidarity, aid in disasters, etc. etc. So I don't think these are the same concepts, nor are they the same purpose and purpose. I miss something here. I'm just missing something here. Because look, when you look at the structure of investment in stock stocks according to this report that we previously had in wheat, for example, as one of the key food, strategic resources was invested in that year 8 million kuna out of 500 and I don't know how many millions of those years placed in strategic stock. It was probably because we had a covid, so over 430 million was actually invested in protective equipment related to the resolution of consequences or better said protection measures than covid. So if we put the covid aside now, the question is, what do we have left? How much money and in what is invested in terms of planning and investment in strategic commodity reserves. So again, you can just ignore this word strategically. Of course, that 8 million kuna cannot possibly be strategic. It's kind of an investment that we have somewhere on the agenda and that item, but it doesn't matter strategically, because 8 million kunas can be linked to two, three farms that produce it annually. Right? A little bigger. So it just doesn't have the weight of strategic, unless we change that. If we're going to go back to the ransom story and sell it again later, I know it's a lot of unfortunate things and it's never going to come out well, so I can't even publicly advocate it. But in considering the structure and dimensioning, the value dimensioning of certain items that are now listed in the law here inaccurately, we will only see it through the rules which will be visible and can be seen that at this point does not correspond to that sound concept of strategic stockpiles. I think we should definitely think about it and see what the right role is and what's the real meaning of something called a strategic commodity reserve or a strategic stock. Here's so much from me about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94187	Individual debates. The first is a respected representative, Marija Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94188	This can't go on like this, and this isn't working anymore. It is not the first time in the Croatian Parliament, but it is a subject that is extremely important, a topic spent on billions of kunas, on goods supplies past public procurement. And how do we talk about the new law? So we talk by, say, in his article 4, the government of the Republic of Croatia is bound once a year by October 31st to submit a report to the Parliament. Report for 2020, one of the key reports in the Republic of Croatia, which has indeed come from the Government, but where the matter has been found. The fact that something has come to the Assembly does not mean that it will come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. So now in February, at the end of February, we are discussing a new law without discussing the previous 2020 report on where millions of our kunas go past public procurement. Do you think that's an accident? No, this is a classic hodogram of conduct in the Croatian Parliament where key reports or not are brought, do not bring them to the agenda and their content remains beyond the public's eyes. And why is that? Before I go to the law itself, which has a lot of holes, I will go to a report that did not arrive on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. If it were a normal Rules of Procedure and it was only rules of fine conduct of this Assembly, it would be totally unacceptable for the law to be discussed before a thorough report has been discussed that will give us a picture of the situation of things and justify the adoption of the Stock Exchange Act. So let's talk about that report that she dares I'll say it in secret because it's crucial, and since October it hasn't been on the agenda yet. So it's hard to say whether you should call it a report or it's a more appropriate word for a brochure. Because when a key report in the Republic of Croatia where the most money is spent has some 27 pages, so I don't know if it really needs to be called a report, say, don't hope that you will find in it what's being said here, for example, a list of companies that have received money without competition for different supply supplies or medical equipment in the covid crisis. Well, no, here in this report you'll find the names of supplies or medical instruments or medical equipment, write you maybe a mask, then a little vaccine, then some cheese, some cans, etc., you're not going to read the details. That we don't have those discussions again, like I used to warn you about the gauda gauda gados 80 kuna per kilogram of cheese, so it's cheese in the ballots, and then we're going to get civil protection for Zdenko cheese, and when only Zdenka cheese ever answered that call and so on and so on. I have to admit, in particular, to the left, that this famous council is the very members of this HDZ-SDSS trade coalition, which has just been mentioned in the last few days precisely in relation to the assignment of jobs to certain targeted companies that have not met the score threshold. Well, when you know that these people have control over stockpiles on behalf of HS, then the question is whether or not that surveillance is just like this report just a mere fleet that stands in this law. And why is surveillance important? So here's what's written in this report, let's say last year from 215 locations where the list of 124 was made, only 58% of which contained goods, equipment and real estate were present next to the list board and warehouses and stockbrokers. Why is the participation of the directory in the checklist reduced, therefore, by reduced control? Half the warehouses aren't controlled at all, they say because of the covid. Please connect those two facts, the covid came, and then the virus took the supply directory, so they couldn't check what it had or isn't in the warehouses. And when we get to that there's no need to mention that the inventory deficit mentioned in this report that continues here with the powdered milk has been present for years, so it was earlier for sugar, so now milk powder, not to count on. Unfortunately, time is too little, but I will remind you that the decision of 17 March 2020 continues to be worth getting everything past public procurement, and in this report we see clearly a cheap justification for why there is no control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94189	Replicated representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, therefore, the decision on the use and acquisition of goods of strategic goods in the context of the fight against covids has been declared a state secret and is not subject to the Public Procurement Act, it seems to me. 40 and some. How do you comment on these facts?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94191	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94192	I've already warned the public, and I'm going to repeat this now that Croatia is probably the biggest robbery since its design, only what luck we're going to find out about it if it's lucky in a few years or not God gives it a couple of decades. It has already been said about companies related to HDZ, which received input jobs in the Covid-19 pandemic, the justification that moving public procurement is also necessary because of the security interest of the Republic of Croatia had some meaning at the beginning of the pandemic itself, but the market has long been reset and nothing has changed. And we see here a storage problem, and we know that we donate millions of doses of vaccines, so the question is whether these warehouses work, how many we have at all, and how we bought it, and why we bought it, and what's going on with our supply supplies, but we're not going to get an answer, and we keep asking the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94193	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94194	Thank you very much. Comrades, stockpiles are basically a Gordian knot. When the i.e. opens. If that cut was opened, a groat of corruption would probably, not likely, but rather new arrests by the ministries, desert headquarters and state agencies. However, public procurement is a key problem, you have well noticed, and I do not understand that we have the meaning of supplies, and when there was an earthquake, mainly in Petrinja i.e. Sisak-Moslavina in Banovina, had it not been for cheerleading groups, had it not been for the citizens, had it not been for all the expensive stock and the functioning of all these headquarters there would have been people dying of hunger and today the incompetence in this area is visible. Here's what you're saying, mainly about public procurement in these crisis situations and about covid and about earthquakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94195	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94196	Yes, there were no containers either, they should have been because if we had followed reports that were coming to government meetings before then it could be seen that the containers had been previously donated, so that there were holes in the goods supplies that were to be filled in time. But what to say when no one really answers for such things and misses them. Public procurement is not an ideal solution, but it is a minimum of some control that must take place, and we agreed when you mention the earthquake to raise the thresholds of that public procurement during exactly the Minister of Horvat whose affairs we are currently witnessing. So here I can ask a question on the supply trail and all of this, will the new minister, when he comes, be able to do only that he will continue the already done and agreed dirty work that the previous minister who is currently under investigation has already established?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94197	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94198	Dear colleagues, here are the strategic stockpiles that have the main objective, which is to help the public, the citizens of Croatia in situations of natural disasters, war and the like. Unfortunately, we have had them lately, an earthquake in Zagreb and in Banovina where all their luxury or inability to act where at some point simply did not work. What's the worst of all is covered by a veil of secrets. What you're proposing is how to regulate the Strategic Stocks Act to make it work better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94199	That's an important question. Well, let's take it in a row. This Article 7 of which you have already said that the Assembly may not, of course, have to, but it is not the only one. It's not a question of three MPs, it's a question of which three MPs are from exactly what lines? The term of office shall then continue until the end of the term of office. So where's that? What recall? Whose recall? Shall we maybe go from one term to another forever? This shows that the advice is only a formal body that has no real role in controlling supply supplies as much as possible. Or when we go further that warehouses will be able to be leased to legal and physical persons and without compensation on the condition of current and investment maintenance, we do not find any additional items here that explain certain conditions under which such items will especially apply to warehouses and other legal provisions that are being worked out in order to have minimum control, and so that someone does not benefit from the fact that so far with the supply supplies in view of all the affairs that they are following were obviously often the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94200	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Nino Rasputuæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94201	In the context of stock supplies, a whole series of problems. From the absence of the right control system and to the fact that there is no responsibility and no fear of any sanctions unless hundreds and hundreds of millions of public money are used in the right way, and perhaps we are now talking about commodity supplies, but de facto in all other domains is a very similar situation. This may best be witnessed by the way the public money was spent to obtain the goods needed or not needed in this crown pandemic, and I am convinced that in the coming years all these will be combed and we will reach those responsible. Why so many vaccines were obtained that we then look at whom we will donate, and obviously few who need it more, how these tests were bought, why these tests, but not tests from some others who offered it at a much lower price than Mr. Lauc, who was a note of Bene and a member of the government's scientific advice, also witnessed. So what we see clearly in the example of stockpiles Unfortunately, it's a paradigm in general, and in all domains and the coronary crisis has shown it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94202	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94203	I agree. This vaccine donation problem may also be linked to the problem of inability to store, but there is no answer on this when the question is asked by the Minister of Health. Do we even have adequate storage options or are we with some ambitions of almost 19 million doses of vaccines that we have acquired so far forced to donate because we have no place with them. So, what happens with goods supplies is actually a paradigm of treatment in Croatia. Someone once made a very shameless decision that public procurement was not related to the Covid crisis, and no one was told when or if the decision would be withdrawn at all. And then we hear about it being a strategic interest and a security issue of the Republic of Croatia. Based on what? So we get here a 27 - page brochure with a list of groceries without companies that got jobs getting these same groceries when we talk about this same stocking report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94204	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94205	Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, you have warned on many occasions that in this crisis, everything is actually taken under some sort of veil of secrecy and procurement and medical equipment and everything else and someone will have to answer for it. We'll definitely examine it all. We see now that the rulings are in one defensive position, the suspension of measures is announced, but also citizens need to know that tomorrow the number of signatures that we have submitted begins, somewhere around 820,000 signatures. And what we're going to insist on because we're not going to let ourselves get into this situation again so that two or three people make decisions about human rights and freedoms, and yet to hide information about how medical equipment was supplied and everything else needed in this pandemic. So we're going to look for answers, and I'm confident that you're going to insist on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94206	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94207	Of course I'll insist as our club has insisted since the beginning when we asked that all purchases be returned to public procurement so that we have minimal control over budget spending. There was never more money in the Republic of Croatia spent on the supply of medical equipment, nor was there ever more money in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about what should be spent in rebuilding the earthquake affected areas. And what's happening to us? On the one hand, we have Minister Coric, on the other hand we have Minister Horvat, and they are responsible for what is being supplied within the stock. Which one of them do you trust more? It's a Croatian reality. It's a Croatian reality. So millions are controlled by those in investigative affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94208	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94209	Thank you. The respected colleagues within the meaning of this supervision provided for in this law, which is carried out by the directorate of the principaly, means that the principaly is not known how to choose, are they not provided for by whom it is elected, is it the government, is it the minister, within which the Ministry of Economy should act, what are the criteria for selecting that director, the directorship? So, the situation is completely unclear about who and how it chooses, and this management controls the supply supplies. Well, here's a comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94210	I agree with you that this is totally inadmissible, and it would be very constructive if the Croatian Parliament could say something about this directorship because if it can affect the directorship and members of the supervisory boards of various other institutions in the state, I do not see why it would skip a key institution such as the Directorship of Stocks, especially given the fact that it has been scandalous since last year, and that is almost half of the warehouse has not been controlled at all, so they have literally washed their hands of responsibility. Who knows what's out there, what's not there, what kind of inventory would show them the holes? Well, I guess it's not the ones who filled those warehouses and kept them self-recording, and the principal's office said it was the crown. So what does that have to do with surveillance of stockpiles, right in the crown when so much money was spent surveillance was supposed to be double, not cut to half. And I agree with you to be careful how and by what criteria you choose this principaly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94211	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94212	Stock supplies, it's of the strategic interest of every country, but when we see only the figures that the figures are about... and what amounts we see is that it's not strategic, is if it's out of a few million wheat and corn it's compared to what's gone from the student silos nothing. It's gone untraceable and no one's answered, during which time it seems to me to be Sanader's government. However, I would briefly just say that here it is visible that the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this medical crisis i.e. The covid crisis is evident that the suspension of public procurement has been granted to anyone who knows who and who knows why. It also needs to be checked all together because crime at this timecovida was never bigger and never more covert and never frightening to people. It is visible every day, every day three pressures are visible, political decisions from the first decisions that a parliamentary representative can vote here when he is in isolation until that moment that now that the whole world says covid certificates are unnecessary, that here we see our neighbours, that here we thank God, I have not yet used in the city administration in Sinj, nor will I, regardless of all the pressures I have had, penalties, anything that comes, nor will I be the only one. It's unnecessary, it's not epidemiological, but at this point I would talk more about this decision itself. Government decisions on the suspension of billions of kunas that are uncontrollably uncontrollable who knows who they were given to. Who knows? In this crisis they were rich in masks, masks were half kuna, and at one point there were 12 million kunas. And while Interpol is struggling with criminal organisations in this case, our government has suspended a decision on public procurement. Of course, in the assembly, it means that we have here tips for stockpiles is similar to that of Milosevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Coric, and so the HDZ has given its representative to Antu Sanader in the SDSS Council and Mrs Anja Simprag. What are you in control? These ten tons of corn, five tons of corn? I mean, amazing, it's not meaningful. What stock do you have? You're laughing at public procurement. Tell me what's up with the medical supplies, what's up with that? Who's dictating you? And you're laughing at the secretary of state, and we're aware of what happened to the vaccine, aware of what happened to this whole epidemiological procedure. Don't say that, Miro Bulj. I'm just a mayor who won't use a covid certificate, I won't. Take me off the mayor and take my mandate if they're criminal, unwarranted, abolished freedoms and human rights and that's my principle which is why we've all fought for me and my comrades. And what you've been doing with covid certificates, that history won't forget you with these public procurements. You're talking here about a few million kunas of something, so let's remember Petrinja, if it wasn't for cheerleading groups of either Torcida, BBB, citizens, and everyone believe me that people in Banovina would be hungry, believe me, people would be hungry. Inorganization, mostly with these food things water, canned cans. I personally participated, personally collected assistance in Sinj, we were all engaged, most citizens. As far as the system is concerned, there is no regrettable system. It would be better if there were colleagues from HDZ and colleagues, I would like that system to exist. Here's Mrs. Bujevic used to say that the mask wasn't a tribune, so then she said that the triba mask. Well, we don't know what the triba is anymore, we don't know what the triba is. This is where they put the masks on, all over the world, it's being fired now and the COvid certificate. You're being vaccinated and you're laughing, but you're being vaccinated and you're carrying the disease just as unvaccinated, so don't laugh. What you have done to the Croatian people, you have lifted their rights and freedoms in the justice of God, you have violated the Constitution, you have violated constitutional order, you have abolished public procurement, you have abolished public procurement. Personally, here's my colleague, Boric. I don't want a covid certificate in Sinj City. You have to pass 17 more laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94213	Time. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94214	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Bull. If we were left with reports and I don't know all the activities of the Ministry of Beauty of Croatian Reality, the only answer we've been prepared and in the context of the goods supply can only be obtained on the ground. So, you personally were down at Banovina and right after the earthquake and over time went and organized forms of assistance. Can you repeat or respond firsthand, was Croatia ready, had enough food, containers and all that was objectively needed by these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94215	The only thing I've noticed is the preparedness of the head of civil protection.../incomprehensible/... that the neatly state-run press is light in a good suit, that blue suit, that's all I've seen and people who've been engaged literally hired themselves to collect assistance. Here I was then in the town of Sinj organized help in the morning we brought water and food products then no one was, we were at INA in Sisak, in Sisak near INE that morning. It means how long it's been tripping with drones and drones to get something going. I would once again, here they are still terrorizing that people and even more painful is the abolition of rights and freedom, this is a more painful thing in this matter in, than public procurement than anything they have suspended. Elimination of rights and freedom. Here, I invite Berosch and here's the second and the last one so he won't be wise enough to let the Man be full of man, Dalmatia burns, and not keep us in constant... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94216	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94217	What distinguishes strategic stock stocks from many other institutions in the Republic of Croatia is a huge amount of money in which, given the current two current crises, the one caused by the earthquake and the one caused by the pandemic, is inverted. So in this sense, I'm interested in how you comment on the fact that we are, of course, past public procurement, still despite even the experts' warnings we have in place Covid's confirmations where monthly millions are being dumped on the testing of state and public officials that I'm going to say are being thrown away but maybe they're being given perspectives by someone who's determined from whom the tests will be obtained, filled and not thrown away by someone's pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94218	This Covid crisis and all that we have experienced will be remembered by the foundation above all by abolishing the freedom and rights of the citizens of our people of Croatia. What you did with Covid's certificates, with tests and tests with all manner of public procurement and who knows how manipulated and who knows what margins they are and we'll have to find out someday. But the fact that it's undeniable to stock stocks as very important, here this year why there's no potatoes here, here's why there's no colleague of the Bucharests, Mr. Bukarica isn't making sense... You're coughing, I think you're smiling. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So there's a sign here, here's a colleague of Brcic's, and there was a drought in the island, and on Suhač there's no purchases in the stock reserves, and so far it's been. For what? Which is why we don't encourage it, so we have enough fields to make people role models and crews of potatoes at least that's not wisdom. I'm always good at potatoes now so I don't talk about why, the dumber the farmer the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94219	The next replica is the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94220	Dear colleague, we were supposed to discuss yesterday in the assembly a request for Minister Horvat's recall and we were about to point out that the radio was bad, that the renovation had not started, that it had not been professional enough or engaged or directed and so on. And today here are 8 days later, Minister Horvat is in Zagreb, in prison, in Zagreb prison not far away, not far away, and the media is having fun with his cell phone and it's all interesting in the content of that phone he didn't delete. Where we'll obviously have some sleeve pulls by and by our colleagues who are still in the benches. Now I'm asking you in such a situation, with such power, taking into account everything that's happened so far with supply supplies, it seems to me that this all seems to me to have this kind of power that manages supply supplies and a large amount of public money is like handcuffs to keep chickens or wolves safe from lambs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94221	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94222	I said a lot of criticism about Horvat and in the first government when it was that the Hungarian was out of all the things I said, but I'm not going to shoe someone who's in jail, but yesterday, I was listening here to a statement by a colleague of Popovec who so warmly defends Milosevic where they shared money, i.e. support mainly in agriculture, he literally tells people of the Serb national minority who do not know how many cows there are tits whether, I always repeat it and it is now in place. And Horvath will be shoeing now, you know. When Ivo Sanader was, say, Ante Sanader defended him, here's Boric defending him, everyone here was defending him, I don't know, now they're all up against Eve Sanader. That's how it's gonna be with Mr. Horvat, the prime minister who's in jail now, the sorry former minister, now he's gonna get trampled by everyone. But what about Milorad Popovec, what about the others, what about the wind plants? And he even came to me as an angel on the wound now because now what he's going to silence is they're all right but Horvat's wrong. But what Horvat did is a little baby towards these others, mainly Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94223	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would say one of the more important things that we are discussing here this week, and today will certainly be entered into the history as one of the days when one Federation or the Russian Federation has committed aggression on Ukraine, and here perhaps apropo all of this is being discussed with this bill of law. Perhaps, above all, more important than this, is that our department of supply already takes care of some of the things that might happen on the market, and will certainly be caused by this crisis that is happening in Ukraine's space. Let us be aware that Ukraine is one of the largest producers and cereals and corn in this area of Europe and that should be counted on and already seen and set things to function in the sense they need to. If there is a major threat to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic has today taken the decision to help Ukraine from these goods reserves, i.e. the supplies we are talking about. It is evident that this law significantly solves certain things that have not been well defined in the old law, which have made it very difficult for me to say the work of this section when it comes to stockpiles. We've had this opportunity and listen from individual representatives, most of these things are, of course, true things that have happened in history, and it needs to be avoided. It can't be the Director's Department of Stocks that will handle surpluses or market deficits. It should be dedicated to what is their primary task, which is to prepare the population of the Republic of Croatia for some forms of threat. What I'm about to say, and my colleagues have spoken about it before, and I agree with that absolutely, I support it, and I discussed it with the Secretary of State myself before the debate. This is Article 7 which should certainly be changed and the word “can” should be thrown out from this first sentence, but at the proposal of the assembly, three parliamentary representatives must be this team to oversee and manage the goods supply. There was also a replica of Mrs. Selak-Raspadić's objection to it until the recall. I think it's okay until the recall. We don't know how long Parliament will be established, whether it will be for 4 years, 2, and I think it's quite all right that when it comes and if there is a possible interruption of Parliament's work for any reason, new elections or anything else would be appointed other people. It should be said that the three parliamentary deputies are currently on this council. Some MPs tried to skip some names, that's not right. The three parliamentary deputies are Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative Sanader. There's Mrs. Shimpraga and there's Daniel Spajic. These are the three parliamentary deputies sitting in this council. I think Article 11 clearly shows how we prevent what was in the old law, and these are various purchases, i.e. solving the problem on the market with surpluses. In Article 11(2), it clearly states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may commit legal and natural persons who produce, i.e. traffic to certain types of goods made up of commodity, that they must produce, or sell, that kind of goods for the purpose of filling or carrying out supply, at the time of the war or directly at risk of independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's good. It significantly speeds up the whole process if such threats occur. In addition to this storage in Article 15, I think it is well indicated in this paragraph that storage operations cannot be entrusted to legal and natural persons who have been given a safeguard measure in the last two years to make judgments or infringement decisions of this type of work. That's good. And here's the short one right now, and I'd agree with those MPs who might have talked about the amount of fines. There should also perhaps a little see [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And that those fines are a little stricter than they are so far, and that's gonna be fine. [[/Invader Sanader: Time. We've got a lot of replicas.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94225	The first replica of the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94226	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Ivanovic, in the context of the bill's proposal, but you yourself pointed out that previous experiences have been used, and the Homeland War, floods, earthquakes, epidemics, pandemics of the Coronal virus we have experienced and have been through and here for the last two, three years and it is good that medicines, vaccines, anti-toxins have been added to the list of goods, Sanitetic consumable medical material. And we saw at the beginning of the pandemic of the corona virus how it was when we didn't have enough masks. However, a timely and rapid reaction to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also been obtained and placed on the use of our citizens, but it is certainly better to prevent the situation and the environment in which we are also located on the current epidemiological conditions, political but war situation in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94227	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more. Well, that's why we need a strategic supply bill like this. Without it the law simply at given times would not know what to do. And what's proposed in this new legislation, I think it's much better, it's much faster, it's more efficient and it'll solve problems much better when there's a threat. Let us be honest with them that sooner or later, whether it is a matter of natural disasters or of any other kind of threat, time should therefore be prepared. The pandemic taught us some things, it's good, and I hope that in this second reading this law will be placed precisely on the welfare of all those whose stock reserves will be needed when a certain situation occurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94228	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94229	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I would like to point out right now that surely neither you nor I want to undermine the importance of the Public Procurement Act, nor in any way justify its possible violation. At the beginning of this pandemic, however, you were a member of the Civil Protection Staff in your city, the chief that you certainly know what the situation was when we encountered the situation that we knew nothing about the disease itself but we also didn't have the whole world, nor the equipment to protect against infectious disease, nor was there a problem with the production of ourselves, the same. So then, and the Public Procurement Act in some situations even allows for different emergency procurement procedures. My question is, if we were to strictly comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and we were constantly called upon to how long this procurement would take, and would you respond to the protection of members or citizens in your city?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94230	Thank you very much. Of course, without good preparation, there is no answer to certain situations that will happen. With all that you've said, of course, I support that part, but strategic planning is basically and it's the cornerstone of what might possibly happen, so the better we plan, the better we can't plan absolutely everything, but that we have to be quick, that's for sure. It can't be us at a given time when we're dealing with any of the threats yet and then the administrative part stops in some things, that doesn't mean of course something needs to be done under the grain, it needs to be transparent, it needs to be in accordance with the laws that the Republic of Croatia has. But I say again, the stock reserves are something that guarantees that at least the first shock when it comes to the threat we can endure, and then continue to perform according to what will happen in the time ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94231	The next replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94232	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's a colleague of Ivanovic's. Well, the government is well aware that this law is obsolete, and that's why he's on the table today in our debate. Only if you want can you find anything on the portals, so if you want to be exactly what's bad and then find on the portals headlines where the containers, tents, and I don't know, etc., whether my friend died with a covid or no covid, or if I'm not talking about how much further, but I think it's been detected and that we can talk today about why there are only three members in the principalship in front of the assembly, but I think in an explanation of how little I've studied it with an article. 7 states that this article determines that HS may, on a proposal, set up advice on stock stocks for the exercise of control over supply management and its composition and duration of the mandate, so I would like to ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94233	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94234	So I think that this has already been apostrophysed several times by several parliamentary representatives and clubs who were here before me, you have heard from the State Secretary's opening statement that the Justice Committee has suggested that we should be there, then here we are at the presentation of Ms. Raukar and the Secretary of State himself said that this is okay and that we should delete that word and that HS should have its three representatives in this Stock Management Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94235	Next replica, respected representative of Luka Brčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94236	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. Well, here's for sure in the light of these events, or actually better said in the darkness of these events, first of all, the invasion of Ukraine in the sovereign state, certainly the stockpiles and woes that can come from this unloving event cause enormous attention. I would mention our haste services which, by their nature and activities, are highly geared to stockpiles and in all these threats, and we know during the threats it is difficult to focus on improvisation needs one coordination. And here's the experience of my Split-Dalmatia County and GSS and firefighters and the Red Cross and the Institute of Emergency Medicine, the Institute of Public Health were all in co-ordination with volunteers of all forms, all forms of associations so I think it's one way of doing proper coordination. Any side it comes from. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94237	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94238	That's right, it's not just to have warehouses in which we keep equipment that doesn't serve anything or waits for some time that will come sooner or later than the stockpiles significantly help to resuscitate certain things when floods occur in some area, about firemen not talking there are, of course, stored and vehicles of fire that the directorship has, and on the other hand, these vehicles often end up in exactly volunteer fire companies, and I think it's good when the equipment is restarted that one part of the vehicle is not just these, but all of them end up in certain units of local self-government. That's it, we need to prepare ourselves, and we need to know what we're predicting, in fact, everything that can possibly happen and be as prepared for it as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94239	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94240	Dear colleague Ivanovic. In teaching what you've been saying, I must warn you that you've misrepresented the recall of the assembly, so in Art. The 7th explicitly writes St. 3. ‘The term of office of the members of the Stocker's Council referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be pending recall’. There's no impeachment to the assembly, nor is that supposed to be. Is that their impeachment, impeachment of the assembly, who's doing this impeachment doesn't say it anywhere, and that should be dealt with clearly. So we can write until the end of their term, and that mandate ends at the time when the assembly is called off if earlier, if early elections or full term, or we can write down a number of years of two or four as usual. And this until the recall doesn't mean anything at all is one fluid category that allows for what has often happened as has happened with the HAZU and many other institutions that the mandates last indefinitely and I think that item should be more clearly arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94241	Thank you very much for this replica. So it makes sense for me to read that chapter 3 is that, if someone is no longer a parliamentary representative, or if their mandate ceases to exist in that case, they will be called off. Now, if you can do that here's the secretary of state who can explain in the end whether it can still make the explicits write until when and when I don't mind. When I read it, it was clear to me that this is exactly what it means when we are here in the assembly, or parliamentary representatives who are part of the council acting on that duty to call off, and that sounds to me that way, but here is the secretary of state who can explain it more in detail when he gets his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94242	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94243	Thank you very much. Here's what you mentioned is the current crisis that happened in Ukraine today, and of course it's going to have repercussions to the Republic of Croatia, everything that's happening in the world, mainly in terms of the market. But it's not clear to me, here you are, Slavonac, how we don't have any potatoes or potatoes in stock, however you like. I don't get it, so in seven days, we don't have enough supplies, and 700,000 acres of agricultural land is unsettled, just the other way around. We have an empty and empty village, we have unsupervised fields, orans, fields, and here some of the key things that have been so far are not mentioned at all. Stocks are meant to be security, and they would have guaranteed some security in certain crises, but we currently don't have a system or goods supply that we need to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94244	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94245	Thank you very much. Well, it's not the department of supply that's in charge of who's gonna sow or plant in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is a structural problem, so, some products Croatia is not on, on the market and it is certainly something to do, but it will not be done by the supply office. It should certainly be said that there is a part of agricultural products in which Croatia is self-sufficient, one of which is the production of wheat, but there is certainly a culture in which we are not self-sufficient and, and we should work on it, but I say this is a matter of all the resources not only of the supply directory, although you are here referring to a report on the state of supply, not of the Law on Strategic Stocks of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94246	The next replica is respected and the violation of the Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj. Miro Bulj, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94247	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, where he disrespects the MPs. So this is a debate only about commodity supplies and the whole debate essentially about commodity supplies leads to the conclusion that we're simply not self-sufficient, we're the only ones who name people, directorships, we're hoarding that system, but we're mostly in threats and crisis situations that aren't enough in seven days, we're going to be hungry in seven days to close the borders. That's the problem, the key problem, and that's why we need to talk about this whole problem one more time, not just the principalship and who's going to be the director, there's going to be some... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94248	Time, answer. Next, this was a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94249	Thank you. My colleague, we have all agreed that there have been significant affairs and crime in history related to stockpiles. We now have before us a bill of law which, in section 4, in Art. 4. predicts that all goods, all goods and supplies, are managed by a department that is not known who chooses it, how it chooses it, by which criteria, it is not precise. In the 20th century, we have the directorship overseeing the supply of goods, means very simple cadium and suing, cadium and judging, so in that sense I would ask you how you think that this very sensitive and extremely important segment of trade differences will really be monitored if for the same thing for all jobs and for the supervision of the same body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94250	Thank you very much for asking. So when this article 20 is read about, there are, of course, inspection services of the Republic of Croatia that also monitor what is happening in the stock reserves. On the other hand, there is advice that we have chosen and sent three parliamentary representatives and two experts in the area of the economy who know what strategic commodity supplies are. So, I think that, that what happened in history is left in history, and this new law essentially solves these mechanisms so as not to have such disorders as it was in history and in practice, and it would certainly not be pleasant to hear about the disappearance of some kind of grain, and they didn't eat it, they didn't eat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94251	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, I would like to point out once again one that has been first placed on drugs, vaccines, antidotes, medical products, medical materials and protective equipment, for the first time they are listed. That's what the pandemic finally pointed out, but before that in migrants and code, and in the flood in Gunja. I'm glad it's here now, it's extremely important that the health system can be supplied quickly with the large quantities they need for the first days. This really had to be put on, and here I thank those who recognized it from the stock reserves, and secondly, in the last 10 seconds, I want to thank all those who worked during this pandemic in the stock stocks because they made sure that all of us who participated in this response were protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94253	Thank you very much. Of course I'm joining this, this thanks, but what's important is that the secretary of state here at first emphasized. For the first time now, if we adopt this law every year, we're actually going to know exactly what the products are, sometimes they're hard to name individually. Today we have seen why there is no one or other product, it is simply impossible to align it with one list to be carved into stone, I think that every year, products that may not have been put strategically in some period, and this one as regards medicines, vaccines, antidotes, I think that's very clearly explicit, and that's very, very important when it comes to such threats, as this one was caused by the Covid crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94254	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94255	Thank you very much. I gave the Rules of Procedure to my colleague Bujevic, but this one didn't sign up. I would only briefly say that she hurt Article 238, where she says all the praises about these stock reserves mainly medical equipment.../incomprehensible/... However, a colleague should have mentioned how much money was raised, money, raised and robbed on masks she called not necessary, which she said were irrelevant, and they were 12 kuna, 15 kuna, 50 kuna. And now can you just through this injury evaluate you and say what led you to then you said not a tribune being, not a tribune? The mask, here's in that crown crisis. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94256	This was your replica, you get a warning, it's your third warning, and I give you a reminder by taking away the words. No more...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94257	.../incomprehensible... I hurt your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94258	And you to me, okay. Maja Grba Bujević is the next violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94259	Stop, hello, so you can't give a nonstop warning like this, so I think the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you've abolished a parliamentary representative, you've abolished the replicas of the parliamentary representatives, every violation...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94260	You get the fourth warning and, the fourth warning, I say by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94261	Well, you can give them 20, but this sucks, I mean what you're doing, so open up a little debate. And now what will he say to me...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94262	Here's the coat of arms, Bujević, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, colleague Bulj is injured not for the first time, and not just me, he insults the parliamentary deputies, he's been false, he's been talking nonsense, and we've been listening to it all this time. Only one who's never worked in that system and doesn't know what it means to wait for protective equipment to get dressed to go into the infected area can talk like he's talking now. Maybe he'll talk differently when he runs his town longer. And I hope it doesn't, either. [[Intruder: Time.]] long. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94264	And you get a warning because this was your replica. Marija Selak Rasudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94265	Article 238, please stop belittled and insult fellow Bulls. Col. Bulj, with his wearing or wearing a mask, follows only the epidemiological instructions of counterpart Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94266	And you get a warning. Buddy Bulj please put on a mask The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev. [[Intruder: We have the free city of Sinj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94267	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Ivanovic would refer to Article 7(3), which discusses the mandate of members of the supply council as it stands, until the recall. However, the first paragraph correctly states that the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Croatian Parliament's competent committee, set up this advice. We know very well when every parliamentary committee is established and so is the authority, we know when the Croatian Parliament is established. It can therefore be read that the advice can have a maximum mandate of up to 4 years because we must also remind ourselves that it is proportionate to what we have in the Croatian Parliament and in every committee and in the relevant and therefore in the advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94268	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94269	I also, as I understand it, some MPs and MPs have a different opinion, I hope that here's the secretary of state to explain what and how. I understand, I'm fine with it while you're here in the assembly while you're a parliamentary representative you can be part of that advice, if you're not a parliamentary representative, you certainly can't act on that duty anymore. It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94270	You don't have any more replicas. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94271	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary representatives. So the laws aren't our hermeneutic art of interpreting the text. They're exact, and what they say is true, if something doesn't say it. It's not a question of our imagination, if it's written to recall what it's like to call it off, if it's not written, then you don't know. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94272	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a second warning. Next is the debate, the individual debate of the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94273	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, there is one curse that says God has given you to live in interesting times. We can all say that we know exactly what this curse means and what it is right now because over the last 20-30 years we see exactly what it is and today we also see that Putin is not out there and that he is not some kind of innocent Hitler from our juice, but is a serious threat that threatens the world order and the EU much wider. And somehow in the context of discussing this law, I think it's good. And this law if something hits this moment because you saw and that the debates in the assembly were somehow in the morning, regardless of what would have caused some kind of debt, all under that, heavy cloud of what Putin decided to show the world that he wanted Imperial Russia had somehow stayed in the other plan, but it's good to discuss the Strategic Stocks Act. So, I'd say a few things clearly there. The first thing a lot of debate has introduced the provision of Article 7. Therefore, Article 7 can, therefore, not stand, stand, but is a topic in order for the Croatian Parliament to establish advice. In one replica, an esteemed colleague said that members of the council are the relationship of forces in HS and always are the relationship of forces in HS and more always belongs to the ruling than the opposition. At this point if we have 3 members of the council then it is 66% 33% and it can never be ideal, but I am convinced that it would be incomparably better to be 5 members of the council to come somewhere closer to that picture and we have some other regulations and some other laws where, where everything is related to the mandate of us as parliamentary representatives. Therefore, we now have a debate that is related to the article. 23, so he says it lasts until the recall, I think it should be solved in the same way as in some other regulations. Therefore, until the second reading, let the motionor see a little bit together with the government's legislation office as it has been settled in other regulations and resolve this regulation in the same way or in a similar way that we do not discuss to recall what impeachment means when the impeachment is, when the impeachment is not. So it is absolutely clear that there are certain options where you tie it to the mandate of us as parliamentary representatives, so be it defined in this law, there are other regulations and laws where there are, where some other advice. Solve it the same way, make it uniform, let's not solve every law in particular. I would like to touch the provisions of Article in the debate. Five. In the order of the Art. 5. talks about the list of goods that make up the stock that is determined by the balance sheet, the balance sheet is the contribution of one of this law that makes up its component, so this is one of those laws when you have a balance sheet and the ministry proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia audit every 3rd year. And I'm going to tie it to that opening statement that God gave you to live, she curses in interesting times, why did I say that? I'm sure and I'd ask the motionary to think about it, I don't see any reason that this balance that the ministry goes to the government doesn't happen every year. Things change, some change, so who thought two years ago about a threat that's from the crown or the covid and that we'll live with it for two years? No one. Today we live in a situation like a third-rate American movie, so when we look at a coma, which seemed like it was when one of the, one of the diplomats was in England and he was about to die because, therefore, his spy service, injections and everything else, it seemed like third-rate movies to me. These are the things we live in. Therefore, these are arguments that about art. 5. Think about it every year and I don't see any reason not to be every year. We in these discussions can discuss in different ways. I could go, so all the sins that have been so far, there were many sins. Yeah, I'm not gonna mention wheat and everything and there were a lot of situations where we talked about some things not doing well. Let's try to have experience from that time from which we have seen that we are not doing well and let's try to be better and it seems to me that these two interventions will only improve the law and action related to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94274	Replica is the first respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94275	Dear counterpart Mrak Taritaš, how you comment on the fact that the debate is in some way euthanized in the HS because we have a reverse order of things again from one that should be reasonable and logical, which is that we have not yet discussed the report on the goods stock for the previous year or 2020, and we are discussing what is wrong with the management of the stock and what needs to be improved by law. And even if the law was not passed, such an important report given the millions spent in the covid crisis was being spent on rebuilding from the earthquake that it had not yet come to the agenda of the assembly if it could be justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94276	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94277	Thank you very much for your inquiry, because here on the first page I usually write to myself or write myself a special subject that I want to discuss, so one of the topics was related to the report and the report really came into the parliamentary procedure, the report was discussed on the Committee on Economic Affairs and on the Committee on Agriculture. The Committee on the Economy was discussed on September 30, 2021, and on the Committee on Agriculture on September 29, 2021, it is absolutely unclear why this trip through these halls is going on for a very long time until this assembly is reached. And I'm absolutely sure, and we've already discussed it a few times, if you have a law that's connected, closely related to certain reports, it seems to me that it would be the most normal thing for the same day or the same week in the debate to be a report and it would be a law, so to see this narrow, narrow bond, because that, therefore, intertwinedness is, and it would be good for it to be in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94278	Time. Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94279	In your debate you mentioned several objections to this law. Since you have not mentioned the provisions concerning the infringements, and I think they are extremely important since these legal persons and individuals manage our assets, that they have contracts concluded with the Republic of Croatia, we believe that penalties should be greater. The penalty from 10 to 30,000 kuna for the right person and from 5 to 15,000 kuna for a natural person are many, many... or for a responsible person in a legal person, they are far too small compared to what they receive with these contracts, they get a secure job, a steady job, and what is most important is the management of our assets. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94280	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pavić. So, I've been working for a long time and working time and I've been following some regulations and I've been working on some rules, and they've always been interesting in every regulation, and I've always found those transitional and final provisions, because there's always been some other things that have always been hidden, but one of the very important are always breaking provisions, and I have to admit that it's been quite an enigma for me to decide to determine this monetary relationship. So when you include common sense then you see that it is somehow, you have some regulations that we already discussed maybe a month ago, where those penalties were quite dragonish, and we know that if the penalties are dragonish, then no one applies them, and some others are too small. So I can absolutely agree with you on the height of these penalties and that's one of the things, so the laws go into two readings. Let's see what we get in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94281	Next replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94282	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here, you've been very well stabbed and given the opportunity to actually underline what came into my eyes, as far as the review, the balance sheet, every three years, writes, but I really agree that it should be every year. Then, as regards Annex 1 and this additional set of medicines, vaccines, antidotes, etc., I think the Secretary of State listens, that everything that is in e-Consultation is responsible, that it is foreseen in a group of agricultural products, etc., that you certainly have in mind, so not only that child food, but then hygienic supplies, cartridges, etc., under these non-food products, but also keep in mind and the need for food for phenylketonuria, for cellia, therefore these are not wise things, but are things that life means. Besides, I don't see it on the hormone list, so as medicines, is it, so you make sure that this group is filled in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94283	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94284	Thank you very much. Yes, so, somehow whenever there's a law, and it's a relatively simple law, so it's not some complicated law, I always look at what this law means in its application and whether that law in its application means a step forward and somehow I always think it should be the result of some kind of analysis and what we've met so far. It's good to have goods, you have stock supplies there, everything's fine, as long as you don't need them. As long as you don't get yourself in a position to figure out how important that is. If you could have it every year, I have it, you write it down, I have so much of this, so much of that, I'm keeping an eye on when the duration is up, or before the duration of all that is, until it's necessary. Unfortunately, we need more and more lately. Now that we're discussing it, the question is what we're going to need tomorrow and what we're going to need, and that's why I think the balance should be real every year and it won't be some big burden for the Directorate and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94285	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94286	Dear colleagues, we are all, in fact, under the impression of today, and I think it is a common issue for all of us, so are we ready for this humanitarian disaster waiting for us. But here, let me ask you, how do you comment on this, Art. Article 4 20 in this proposal of the Law, as referred to in Art. 4 The Directorate manages the supply system, so he does public procurement, renting storage space, storage, etc., and then through here, art. 20 performs inspection. So he manages and inspects himself, they check it out. How's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94287	Thank you very much, colleague Puljak. So let me first answer your question, which is always, this dilemma of the same body that part of the job does and part of it controls all of it, I absolutely think we should think about it until the second reading and see how it regulates in view of the current conditions and the way it all works. I have to admit, somehow I always try to be correct and try and correct and answer. I met for the first time in reality when there was a flood in the Cvelferia area with a theme of supply and everything else. I had one correct experience from that period, and I can't say that I didn't have one correct experience at the time. Therefore, the Directorate for Stocks is one administration, or one governing body, or part within the Ministry, and it is absolutely necessary to make sure that there is no smoking and sues, you're being tried and taken care of, and the second reading is something that can be changed equally. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94288	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94289	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, to conclude a few words again in front of the HDZ Club, that in fact we should all go back together to the measure of the law itself. There were interesting discussions here, constructive, from a number of colleagues, from a number of clubs, colleagues and colleagues from a number of clubs, it was of course also the use of this Law and this pay phone for some, let's say, daily political games, but I think that the essence of this Law in the first reading that can certainly be improved until the second reading, that the system of governance of strategic commodity supplies is still placed on a new level, on a new level, and that this is generally a positive, positive proposal of the Law. Essentially, the new law should respond more effectively to emerging challenges, and we know what we have faced all together for 3 years and from pandemics, earthquakes, floods and those floods that have been slightly over the years and should be more operational in terms of the adoption of a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, the very management of supply supplies, the faster filling and nomination of new products in the stock balance. In addition to current groups of agricultural and non-food products, it should be noted that, of course, some new products, such as medicines, vaccines, antidotes, sanitary and consumer medical materials, are introduced. It is important to stress that money storage has been abolished, so the matter is provided for in the balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks in goods. Unforeseeable situations have imposed new products, but also the necessary more flexible action, so this bill enables the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act quickly and effectively in terms of the possible need to change the balance sheet of the goods of the strategic stock, so it is difficult to predict, but it is important to have the possibility to react promptically. That's what I'm saying in the context of the fact that a part of my fellow MPs respected goods supplies that, at some point, perhaps some of the goods didn't have in the quantities they needed. But imagine what a theme it would be in the public and the media that before the earthquake happened that stock stores decided to buy 2,000 containers, I don't know so many thousands of tons of other medical supplies and everything else. It is likely that in public space, a large part of the people would then be attacking stock stores to spend tens of millions of kunas unpredictably for some of the circumstances needed. This is a new experience, but this does not mean that the supply system does not need to be managed rationally in the context and time in which we live, and not under the impression of one threat because it is impossible to cover simply all situations, all unconductive and difficult circumstances that can happen. What is important perhaps to mention from the position of the Committee on Economy, which I chair, was noted that the deadline for the adoption of the annual programme means by 31 January of the current year for the current year does not match the deadlines for the adoption of the state budget, noting that one part of the strategic stock is actually financed from the state budget. So let's get this straight. The balance sheet is constantly being filled in, and the funding provided for by the state budget is also used to fill out, and everything is planned and entered into the annual programme. It has been shown in practice that it is not possible to adopt an annual programme by 31 December, which is why it is prescribed to adopt by 31 January at the latest. The Committee on the Economy also has a problem with the part relating to infringements, and I can see that some colleagues have mentioned it in terms of fines for those who are a slave to trust in keeping that those penalties are not adequate, that they are in some way too low. Okay, we can talk about it until the second reading, we can have about that detail and different viewing, that in itself is not problematic. It is important to say that these penalties are in some way common, that they have signed an agreement with the Ministry of Justice and Administration, in particular taking into account that it is not the only instrument of protection in the event of harmful treatment. Of course, we have the possibility of compensation for damages through the Law on Mandatory Relations and, of course, other elements of criminal law if they are treated in some way with these goods, which would be criminally incriminating. Generally, here is the HDZ Club, of course, to support the Strategic Stocks Act in the first reading and to thank everyone for their contribution during today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94290	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc advocate Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94291	I thank the chairman. So, I would like to ultimately sum up our proposals and objections to this proposal for a law on strategic stock reserves that I spoke of in the opening debate and through replicas. It is therefore clear, first of all, that the supply of goods is managed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that all supply-related transactions are carried out by the Directorate as an administrative organisation in the composition of the Ministry of Economy. But as it is elected, how many members it is, whether it is just a director, whether it is a body, whether it is a minister, whether it is done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are criteria for selecting that directorship, how long it is for them, whether it may be indefinitely, it is not all mentioned in this proposal, and I think it is necessary to specify it precisely. Especially in light of the provisions where supervision is therefore an article. 20th over the stock supply situation is again run by the same management that runs all the supply business. So, in this sense, this surveillance was put under a large questionnaire because nowhere in the proposal as counterpart Ivanovic said, but I did not find to mention the State Inspectorate, the Ministry is mentioned, so police, and police are not surveillance, police are a repressive apparatus that acts when surveillance has discovered irregularities. So I think in that sense we're really in a cadiya situation that sues you, when you're being tried and it would be directed to a second reading, i.e. until the final draft of the law, it is better to specify and regulate it. In this regard, we believe, I will repeat, the necessary provision of parliamentary supervision in the sense of establishing the appointment of a mandatory Council on Stocks and predicting however long this mandate is going on because this is up to impeachment if we have a different understanding of this until the recall means that it is not clear. However, today's debate has really raised one question that there may be a possibility of recalling a lack of precise and clear performance of its duty as a very responsible one, that is to say, control of the goods supply. And in that sense, I think it could be called off because of the non-response of duty. We had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Secretary of State that the assembly in some councils didn't even name that advice, so here's one possibility that they would all commit us all to a much, much more serious acceptance of such a kind of duty. And we agree and agree with our esteemed colleague, Mrak Taritash, that this advice would be good if there were five members, five parliamentary deputies, in order to better convey the relationship between the ruling and the opposition. We still strongly advocate to be in art. 3. Along with the RS forces, civil society organisations who can participate in humanitarian and peace operations abroad, as this is a way to be present to help a particular situation outside without sending military forces. We also really think that it is necessary to link certain provisions in this law to the Civil Protection System, so it is a commodity system, in order to manage it better with these two systems in disaster situations because I think it is the only way that this can work. Then in Article 15(3), so two years after the offence or sentence, I think it's too small a time, i.e. Time. We think that this should go on for five years, because indeed such violations and such convictions are a sign that it is people who simply cannot be associated with the supply of goods. And so, of course, we advocate hygienic supplies, hygienic pads, baby food on the list of goods, and we hope that you will accept our remarks and suggestions from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94292	The next final debate is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94293	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. First, I would refer to this three-year term for the balance sheet, or for the balance change. Since we know how the balance is defined and what role does it play, would it be good if it happens every year? Since the balance sheet is actually defined and plans are based on it, the government is making plans to question whether a plan can be changed each year to obtain these, or whether it can be changed each year, given that plans must then be dynamically and differently made. But I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind putting it in your final word later, that would be a good idea for the balance sheet to change every year, to review the balance sheet. I think, given what we heard on the board and how we think and think about stockpiles, that would be a little harder to implement, but good. I said, and in my debate, I think we need to know very well about the business processes that are being resolved within, in the management of supply supplies, so that we can discuss it because the processes are not very simple, and then if we simplify it, we could come to a great deal of trouble. I would like to look back at the representation of our representatives who have repeatedly mentioned the malversions that occur with the goal of obtaining material benefits. We know, I mentioned it the same way in my discussion that we witnessed a grand theft of 18 tons of grain a few years ago. We know who's being charged, who's being convicted, who's being released, we understand that. However, it must be clear to us that this is not so easy to implement since there are many of those involved in the controls. And in order for a malfeasance to occur, there must be a model, there must be one group that works together so that this malversion can happen. In fact, I find it impossible to carry out malfeasance if it is carried out only by the principaly or only warehouses, i.e. legal and natural persons entrusted with the contract in connection with the supply of goods. We've also seen in that case that happened seven, eight, nine years ago that there were inspectors and warehouses and a whole series of people who were in control, so they can realize that they must be involved and mentioned by inspectors and auditors and all those who work on control and inventory of the stock. And I'd also like to refer to the infringing provisions. We consider that an infringement provision is questionable, which punishes a legal person who does not comply with the storage and storage contract unless the contract on the lease of a warehouse and equipment is followed, if he prevents an authorised official from coming into business or if he does not act upon the resolution of the principaly. I hope you will agree that the penalty is not the same for the right person if he has a contract with the Republic of Croatia of several million or tens of millions of kunas or if he has a contract of several hundred thousand kunas, so we suggest that there be penalties in percentage of the contract concluded with the Republic of Croatia, or with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the preservation of supply. We would also refer to penalties for natural persons, because people need to know that these are people who manage our assets, who manage our supply supplies, and that the damages if they don't manage in the right way can be very large, the consequences of far-reaching. Now, I don't want to reevaluate what's going to happen here, but I hope that regardless of who's on the other side of the contract that the ministry and the esteemed secretary will accept our suggestions and that the penalties for both legal and physical persons will be somewhat different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94294	Final debate and review on behalf of the promoter, respected Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94295	Uh, I thank you for the debate that I expected was quite correct and exhaustive and in some parts interesting, and in some parts a little bit of this, amazing. Let's take this one in order, as far as the distinguished representative is concerned, Urshe Raukar, about the duration of the term of office, about the Administration and everything else. You simply have to understand that the law is clear, that we are the founding unit of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, or the Ministry of Economy, if once the name changes again, which means that we are going normally, in accordance with the system of state administration. Everyone there has been elected, as in all other administrations, the director is elected to the contest that the Ministry conducts this, and that it is clearly sent to the Commission for appointment. So there's no dilemma at all. For your information, all this burden and this, this, this, this, this great job done by 13 employees, was recently there and the director who, because of his resignation to leave for second duty, uh, went and my smallness, well, assists in terms of the Secretary of State and coordinates as much as I can. So 13 people of whom there are more than half of them could already be early, and some could almost be this, an age, so that's that concentration of experience and a small company, the reason why Covid didn't arrive in the field in enough numbers is that people didn't lift their heads out of the process, from everything else, when it was Covid and, and later, the earthquake. Here is the Croatian public who is doing very little looking at this today, unfortunately because everyone is alive about this unfortunate war that is current, I have to say one thing, so here I just brought two papers of so-called. set up procurements and this, and these some great ones, problems that are created and etherous about the government's decision. Imagine that government that would not make a decision to allow a single body, such as the Authority, to, on behalf of civil protection, on behalf of all fire and other situations necessary for all of this to be resolved, cannot work in accordance with this, limited procurement procedure, or negotiation procedure, that fast procurement process. Here, the antigen tests that have now been obtained for our children, that's 3 million pieces. Three million pieces. And in order to get that out of the open procurement process, which, which would last 20, 30, 40 days, DCOM complaints and everything else, means we got it in accordance with the government's instructions, in a way that 27 bidders reported that a 3-member committee from the 3 ministry, from our ministry, from the Ministry of Health, from the Ministry of Health, of the police, or the Ministry of the Interior opened all these offers, precisely in the intended terms of the electronic, physically drawn record, was chosen all and all of this was recorded in the ministry. So we invite every company that has HALMED paper to be able to participate in Covid's purchases and, in the meantime, if someone logs in, we ask them to let us know, but often people call themselves and say put us on the list. So this, these people are working in a way that is currently working and getting what will take very certain for the refugee crisis, here they are now doing and getting it, and today it's on the government, unfortunately feeling what will happen, we've already proposed to the government 15 days ago that a certain amount of resources from the stock supply be proposed to the government, not knowing that it's going to shoot today, and unfortunately today it's shooting and today at the government 5.5 million kuna of supply equipment has been approved to go towards Ukraine, clearly it's just the beginning and it's going to be still going to be. It means so much about it. With really this, uh, maximum restraint, not to say any harsh word, I have to condemn that you can't talk about it like that. The basis of all of us doing public work, and so do you here, the distinguished parliamentary representative and representative is that we have, I would say one, one respect for the state. The respect for the state can't be given only if you're in power, and if the opposition is that you spit, ruthlessly spit it out, and then tomorrow you expect, when you come to power, that when someone does something like that to you, that's why I'm asking you, when I've called here and there's something that's been asked to hurt the Rules of Procedure, when I say that you're welcome to the Director's Office to ask, we'll ask around, and we'll give you documents. We're not very secretive. Who said this was very secret? This is all on the Internet, every time it's done, every week it goes online, journalists read and write. So this antigen test that's domestic, the one you won't buy under 33 kuna in any pharmacy in Croatia, let me know if you bought it somewhere under 33 kuna or below 30 kuna, it was purchased for 6 kuna 95 lip plus VAT. So much for crime, so much for the irrational spending of money. So much for the incompetence of the Management and Croatian Government. So that's what this is about. As far as inspection surveillance is concerned. The law clearly wrote an inspection of the implementation of the storage contract, which means a storage contract to another place other than the principalship, the keeping of the goods, the state of the supply of the goods is carried out by the principaly. And who wants to go first? Who will keep us from each other but ourselves? Who will be the first to report to the competent authority except ourselves? I'd love to, here's Mrs. Ursh, I'd like it if the inspectorate had so much capacity to free us from it so that they would do it for us. No one happier than us in the ministry, but let's face it, we live in a real world and we know it's an impossible mission. You know very well how many people.../incomprehensible/... imagine that I only give them once a year to a colleague named Juric once a year to go to 200 and what, 225 places. They'd bless us, they'd just tell us we can't wait right now anyway, we're not dealing with the many situations they have to control. So that's it, so much for it. I'm gonna go ahead and see what I've written down here. Potatoes. Here, colleagues from MOST, they care very much about being potatoes in the balance sheet proposal, here I am personally committed that first this one with the economic chamber will communicate to see how much capacity can be stored in Croatian potato manufacturers and how much of this potato can be refurbished in Croatian storage facilities and manufacturers, so when we get that information, then we'll look at it a little bit, and we'll predict one amount of potatoes for this, the next proposal for balance sheet. No problem, here's the potatoes will be proposed in the balance sheet, as much as what, when the matter comes from the proper views. As far as impeachment is concerned, I would agree with more of you who discussed this. We went to one logic of logic that when the parliament ceases to work or decides that it no longer has to be called off, but we can call off the member and that he can call off the member himself and say that he will no longer be, that the motion to revoke him can, during the term of office, be given by the committee responsible, and that is the Committee for the Economy and that the impeachment by force of the law ceases by disbanding the assembly. I don't think I've forgotten a single situation because what you've mentioned is that eventually someone who doesn't work doesn't, it's again the committee responsible to discuss it a little bit. That would be all that matters. As for Mr. Greek, my dear professor, this little wonders me about his ignorance of the Oil and Oil Products Act and the fact that there are strategically this mandatory supply of oil and oil derivatives that are just handling what he said. He said whether this possible lack of any means to prevent fuel prices could lead to a lack of supply by the entities we limit, but therefore there is a law on the oil market and oil derivatives that says that due to the disturbances in the supply of Croatian state can free up its mandatory supplies and sell them to these bodies and then they can't tell us we couldn't get, you have, and then with the price and with everything it can do something. But the strategic stocks in line with the treaty we signed with the EU, in accordance with all European directives, no EU country is a market stock. It's simply forbidden, we can't do that because it would mean affecting the market, and every impact on the market you know what's coming next to the support program and something, but there's no point in working for the strategic stock of the support program, it, it just doesn't work. As for the annual balance sheet audit. We have entered the law that the balance sheet review is every 3 years, but we have not written anywhere that it can't be before, but we ourselves have committed ourselves to, no matter how theoretically, there's no need to revise it that after 3 years we have to revise it. Maybe the solution is to write at least every three years, which means it could be every year, but we'll think about it. We don't have any problem sending the balance to the government every year, it's the least of the problems, it's just this job that's not a problem at all. Well, as far as gas and everything else is concerned, we have as much fuel in our stock as we have that topic that was from the esteemed council representative of Troscott's so-called. The loss and shortfall, which is not at all a loss, nor a shortfall, but simply sold fuel that simply made no more sense for us to keep in stock when there is enough in the mandatory supply of fuel in the public tender, frees God as it can sell some of the supply supplies without a public competition. So in the public tender, there's a price that's been obtained. The highest purchase of fire tanks or water tankers was made in the public tender. So our rule is if we sell something from the principal's office, we get something new on the balance sheet. So we don't spend on wages, or anything else, or luxury, but sell something, get something. As for this more, more than once, obviously there's this talk that we haven't reacted when there was an earthquake when it was.../incomprehensible... so you realize one thing the department of supply is not civil protection, it's not the police, it's not the military, we're the supply office. We are the ones who react when the authorities send us the needy and we react without delay. We can't be who we are, we can't be 13 people from the principal's office walking around the May Poles and all over Banovina and watching where to put the container. It's just that, we are, and I agree with Mr. Sanader that this part where we said that civil protection can give that why not also the fire chief's commander because he's gonna say fire commander and civil protection it comes as two interventions and we're going to sign it up, enter the law, it's not questionable. This means as far as it goes, just to look here I wrote everything, an annual program, that annual program. I don't like to be the official of this government here in this esteemed home to propose to the government, so the government is proposing to you something that is predicated to problematic treatment, under quotes of problematic treatment, because in order for us to make an annual program, we need to do a final accounting of the directorship. The Directorate has two types of income. The revenue from the budget of the eleventh and its own income. We can't make a reckoning before half of January at best. He understands. And then it means that what you said and some other esteemed MPs and MPs here would suggest that we should propose a program sooner, theoretically we could, but I guarantee you this program would be proposed and then we would have to read it right away in February because there's no way it's going to work. And we went with the logic that nothing would happen in a month of those first ones to do it all. The budget anyway gives us as much money as it can, and our need for a habit is at least 7 times 8 more than the budget can give us, and the need is based on the balance sheet. And that's the whole story, and that's why we put it this way, we set this law. As far as the violations are concerned, I can see that you've all said that this is a little bit to you, we'll think about it, we'll increase. This proposal of yours about the degree may be about the size of the value of the goods also seems not bad to me, but you understand one thing is that when you have one tank in a firehouse or in a municipality, and the other is when you have tens of tons and tens of thousands of tons of some goods somewhere, it's not the same for both of them, so we might see how and how we're going to absolutely raise these, we're going to raise that threshold. As far as everything else is concerned, this one here is often talked about some small tones, some miserable things why we are strategically, not strategically, let's not simply twist the thesis, themes and thesis. So if we've got 50,000 tons of wheat and we've got 8-9.000 tons for one year then we can't be downplayed that it's not strategic, then let's say we added another 8,000 tons, so that's 58,000 tons, so we're not drunk billionaires that we're going to have this hundreds of millions each year to get this stock. Unfortunately, here we had to create these hundreds of millions in order to solve Covid, but our daily routine was about 30 million once and less could be up to a maximum of 150 million kunas that we got from the regular budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's our desire to always be somewhere around 100 million then it would be a good rhythm and pace, but it can be as much as possible and it's simply groundless here to talk about. Now, in that name, this one we'll listen to in detail and bring this one to another reading of the law. We're going to appreciate a lot of what we've all been doing here together, and clearly what we can do is we're just going to rewrite what it was like before it started and we're going to solve this dilemma so there's no dilemma about it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94296	We have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94297	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State immediately apologized, if one piece of the replica had already been heard before, I couldn't be at the opening of your presentation, so here's the first question. This law estimates that some 600 million kunas would be needed for the next 10 years to fill these strategic stockpiles. Do you think that this assessment is good given the current and new circumstances because when I took out more data from the budget law, it was then that it was for the creation, renewal and use of supply stocks in 2020. 133 million kuna, 2021. 286 million, 2022. 86 million kuna. Furthermore, this third group, which is now included medicines, vaccines, antidotes, medical materials as much as in this assessment of the 600 million kuna, how much for this health, medical, and what I told my rep colleague, do not forget the food for phenylketonuria, for the cellium, hormonal replacement treatment, baby food, hygiene supplies of the cartridge, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94298	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94299	It's just our assessment that if you don't spend your stock now that with 600 million kunas, let's say 60 million kunas just for, just for the complete, because you can't count that when you get out of the budget 6 million that's that, 6 million is just for the complete, and then you have the cost of storage, then you have the cost of the drive, everything else, so that's 100, that's 100. And we went to one conservative totally this assumption that this could be filled in, and clearly in that billion and something, a billion and almost 100 million kunas will then be drugs and everything else. And if it is established that this part of the drug will lift it all up then we will obviously have to do these projections differently, but certainly we will consult the competent ministry because we don't feel this competent that we determine what it should be in it they'll suggest, but this is all you said I think there's no reason to... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94300	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94301	I don't know if you've got the right idea what I was actually trying to achieve with this proposal of mys regarding the annual plan. Namely, the reporting period may be from 1.11. to 1.11. Do we agree? So no one's stopping us from saying it's such a reporting period. And on the basis of data from that reporting period, we can then find out the plans and annual plans. Right? That's right. Now, it's not a problem right now that I want something to be controlled, but the thing is that after that, since you said there's a need, six times, seven times larger than you get from the budget, then you have both advocates have the ability and the power to influence the change in these amounts. They don't have one like this. So after what you get, you get it. And if this were to be discussed in the budgetary phase, then amendments may have an impact on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94302	That's the question again, sooner or later, neck or neck. This, of course, what's not filled in the balance sheet, it's the subject of our demand every year, and that's what you said yourself, much more than a real budget can give. And the balance would be insane if she weren't ambitious and not bigger than she really is. It would be normal for it to be precise if Croatia were Norway and if it had the resources of financial so much that it simply filled it all out without a problem and so it would be. We just think it's a problem, this is what you're saying because, I repeat, I have to do my annual... and the annual reckoning that what we know and what we have left of that money that we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I don't think this is going to be any problem by the 1st month because even now it's been known that it never came to 31.12 and I just think it's funny to propose it in law, and it never came to 31.12, never.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94303	Next replica, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94304	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, I would like once again to highlight all the thanks to civil protection workers who, every time there was a crisis, were peacetime without a crisis really spotless and always on time and willingly and with a lot of empathy and with a lot of respect, thank them because I know very well and am aware of what they were doing both day and day and night and Saturdays and Sundays, as well as all the others who responded to the challenges that were ahead of us. It is worth commending them and thanking them once again on behalf of the health system, but also on behalf of other systems that they provided, more than civil protection through police officers, firefighters, border police officers, everything they actually did. These are valuable things, human resources are the most important thing in any way in any answer, and you're actually giving us wind in the back, realizing that it's very important that you try it with as short a time as possible to get it. Well, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94305	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94306	Nothing, I can only thank you for saying such words and say that we always go and react promptly after we're called. When the earthquake started in Banovina, unfortunately and when it started from all sides of the force of help and everything else, imagine now what it would look like if we had now started bringing supplies and everything else into those warehouses that were full of everything already donations from the state. Clearly, that's where the state taxed and watched how and in what way no harm was done, and whenpleter came in, who was, who was providing all that time and day today, who's providing it all? Director's Department of Stocks. What are we talking about here? Well, it's not the department of supply supplies that's gonna jump on, on, on, in a second, there's civil protection and the rest, and then we're coming by warrant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94307	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94308	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, all countries have their own strategic goods supplies and all ask God to use them as little as possible because then it means that things are going well and things are going normally, so we live in some normal times, but unfortunately we have experience in the last ones, I would only say that we refer to the last 10 years of the importance of the strategic supply and the way that they are. My intervention with regard to Art. 5 that relations between the ministry and the government in terms of balance be made once a year. Not because I think you need to do something extra now, but because I'm convinced that it doesn't cause you any big problem because otherwise you do, and I think in the given circumstances that we are in, it would be good for the government to really do it once a year, so if you can see it doesn't need it, I mean, now the situation is that I think it wouldn't be bad, and you said in your presentation that you would think about it, so I kind of encourage you to think about it, and it won't put a big problem in the work, and it'll all get better together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94309	Well, thank you. I think I said that, that that formulation to add even the least that we've solved the matter, and we still have the item down there that says, exceptionally, we can react and buy things that aren't even in the balance sheet, so I think that by doing so, we would remove the doubt that this, this revision, and that it is conscious by some of the representatives that this audit has been turned into a state audit, which is a complete delusion of the Croatian public, cannot be said so knowingly when it is known that our revision of a document is known, and the State Audit is now in the Directorate. The State Audit is neat in the Administration almost every year, which is good and what's good, and the State Review has helped a lot of what's here to make this Law look like this and all the recommendations from the revision have been incorporated into this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94310	Next replica, respected representative of Luka Brčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94311	Dear Secretary of State, first of all commendation for the intention of helping the people in Ukraine. Our people would say with one of their wisdom, whoever gives at the right time, doubles. On the other hand, we are aware that we are all limited to public activities, public procurement, that it has its legality and its limitations. On the other hand, we'd be very happy to have the maximum item in the stock reserve right now come from our domestic production, so I'm interested in how we stand, at least in general, and it's hard to say each item individually now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94312	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94313	So what's that, thanks for the line. As far as our stock is concerned, the special food part is complete, one small part is foreign, and as regards material and technical means, for example, the tanks are all purchased in Croatia. Clearly what is concluded in Croatia... A lot of things we can try to get to be Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly, you can't write it in a contest because it's forbidden by law. But here I thank our companies who are very competitive and container and everything else. So I would dare say that 80 and more percent is complete and material and technical and food and everything else in the supply supply is exclusively Croatian production, and we are proud of that, and that is only possible because it is simply impossible for you to renovate anyone but the one who produces it and stores it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94314	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94315	My dear secretary, there's only one comment on what you said. I don't know a lot of MPs around here, I don't know how to spit on the state. It's often said in debates that critics actually spit on the state. Let me tell you, we're not in the country's spit-out business, we're really criticizing bad practices, bad people, we're pointing to some kind of illogicality, maybe criminal activity because we care that we're not being declared here if we're not patriot or something. And I mean, again, I'm going to point out that today is especially here, and now that we're reading the Twitters that the Russians are attacking Chernobyl, we're really being threatened by one. This is no longer just a war in Ukraine, but a war in the whole of Europe that is really important to us in what state the entire supply system is in, and that it is logical that we are concerned that this system is also saying the warehouses and the supply supplies themselves, but also the whole reaction system, if you want to and civil protection, is ready to respond to the disaster that is approaching us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94316	Absolutely. I mean, you have to understand to me that when you're talking about a student wheat affair here that's been carried away a long time ago, and since this law wasn't even an affair that would look like a student affair. I'm talking about this law we're changing now in 2002. So that's what we've been saying since Racan's government, so of all these governments now. So it's a little bit like a man who spent a while there I can't say a little bit angry, but it's kind of a bother not to go back to those heavy skeletons that were really absolutely inadmissible and that wasn't right. But what you asked me about is that the system is ready and we're working right now and we're going to do everything in our power to be and as ready as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94317	The last replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94318	Here's the secretary of state, you answered my question part, because that's what it was, it would be my question. I think I can only conclude in the end that everyone reads the law as they wish and in their own way and everyone thinks it's important or less important. But I think that both this law and this bill of law, as well as only the principalship taught in grief and their own experiences in the Homeland War, the wave of emigration, the pandemic of covids, the earthquake. He knows how to respond just as the government could respond really spotlessly to everything, so of course according to that and the principalship. And here's the part and this morning's news of Russia's attack on the independent and sovereign state of Ukraine is certain that you've already told us that you've approved believe and I hope that some sense will prevail and will be resolved peacefully. But I believe the principalship is ready to respond to these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94319	Thank you. As you said, we've already reacted, and now we're getting ready for the case, and unfortunately I think it's going to happen very definitely that we need to take a part of the refugees. We're already on our way to prepare for that and getting those resources that we'd estimate we'd still need. Here we have just started some purchases earlier today, so we are absolutely standing by to stick to what happened when the dam broke in Gunja. It broke at 1:00 p.m., and we were with beds and food in Gunja at 4:00 a.m. And when it was all over, everything we were asked to do was we reacted spotlessly in a way that we weren't even waiting for who was going to pick up the trucks, but our employees who weren't even in charge of it went to the warehouse and they were squirming the truck. That's what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-24-0.u94320	No more replicas. I thank the Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose, in accordance with Rule 226 of the second Rules of Procedure, the addition of the agenda of the 10th session with one new point of the proposal for a declaration on Ukraine. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. In accordance with Article 225(4), The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that the proposed item has been included in the agenda of the 10th session. And the last item of today's session - Objection against the restrictive measures of distance from the session of the Croatian Parliament is the representative Kreso Beljak on the basis of Article 242 paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System delivered an opinion in accordance with the provisions of Article 242. Rules of Procedure. The right of speech is only the representative who has objected and the rapporteur of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Their speeches can last for as long as five minutes. Does the objector want to take the floor? Honorable representative Kresho Beljak. He's losing his right. Does the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system want to further explain the opinions? Drazen Bosnjakovic, right? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. As announced this morning, we continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a point to discuss instead of a point planned for tomorrow, which is the proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine. Here's what we're done with today. Thank you very much, very much. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 17.08 p.m.
