ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u102764	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. We continue with the work, first in accordance with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the 11th session agenda with a new point. This is a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. There have been no written objections to the proposed agenda item, so I would say that the proposed item is included in the agenda of the 11th session and we will discuss it today after what has been announced in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u102961	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Radoje Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u102962	These topics and events I rarely publicly speak of because there are no words, I don't know what to describe enough, to express my feelings, but as a representative in HS, as a Croat of central Bosnia, as a member of the former Croatian Defence Council, I must now be here in HS, I feel a deep need to talk about the corrupt crimes of the BiH Army against the Croats, BiH, and especially the Croats of central Bosnia. I must remember and share with you the memory of January '93, of small Croatian villages, Gusti Grab in the Municipality of Busovača, of the village of Dusina Municipality... when defenceless villages attacked the BiH Army and after the capture of civilians and captured members of the HVO, the beasts after the torture killed and shot 20 civilians captured by HVO. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must also remember and think of March '93. to persecution, ethnic cleansing, crimes against the Croats of Klis, Konjica, whose existence today unfortunately is witnessed only by healed ruins. We must also remember the tragic 16 April village of Dusina, the village of Trusina, the municipality of Konjic when the BiH Army attacked, captured and beastly shot and killed 14 civilians and 9 captured members of the HVO. We can't forget, we can't mark the saddest day, the most tragic day in the history of the Travnik Croats on June 8, when almost 20 thousand Croats were practically expelled from Travnik, when all Croatian civilians were captured in the village of Maljine, when 40 men were separated and taken to Bikosha where the gunmen were shot, unfortunately for the bodies of those gunmen, their families are still searching. How not to mention, how can we not remember June 10th when the entire central Bosnia mourns the knighted angels, the dead children of the criminal grenades. Can we spend this July not to remember the persecution of fojanski Croats about 5,000, not to mention and soon to mark the persecution and loss of the Bugojan Croats because practically 15 thousand Bugojans were expelled from their hearths, when some 2,000 passed the camps, when 23 people were taken from the camp for whose bodies they were still searching for. We must remember and pray to God and for the murdered foyer friars of the Guardian Fr. Nikica Milicevic, Vicar, Leon Migic, who were murdered in a monastery in a November beast. In December, the entire central Bosnia mourns the victims of Križancev's villages when civilians and soldiers were also captured, 63 Croatian persons beastly killed after the torture. Unfortunately, that's not the end of it. Before just signing the truce before the Washington Agreement on 9 January '94. Another terrible crime took place when the BiH Army attacked Buhine Houses, where it also committed a terrible crime by killing 26 people, the youngest person had only one year, and nine captured members of the HVO were killed after torture, after torture. Of course because of the weather, this is just a small number of sites I mentioned here. I know that the scream of the Croats of BiH does not reach those who were to investigate these crimes, who were to punish the perpetrators of these crimes. They not only didn't investigate them, but they did everything to cover them up and that the perpetrators and the rewards. We are not surprised when besides 1,000 Croatian graves in central Bosnia, innocently killed civilians, captured soldiers, a member of the Bosniak people's presidency says the BiH Army did not commit a crime. Unfortunately, this truth does not want to be heard by international powers either because this truth does not fit their big plans, but no matter how long we live, we will carry our vote, raise our voice on the truth about the loss of BiH Croats because of our future, because of our victims, not to encourage hatred, revenge, not reconciliation. To encourage awareness of the victims So that those sacrifices would never be in vain and that no one in the world could ever do this again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Don't say it again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103056	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103057	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Bundestag building reduces heating and cooling due to energy savings. In Germany because of energy emergency, social peace is in grave danger. Energy companies are calling on France to save energy, Germany is already saving on lighting, hot water, heating, desperate measures in Germany hot water at a certain time, citizens in France are invited to reduce energy consumption, Slovenia has introduced the first stage of warning due to a reduction in gas supply, Europe concerned by gas is moving a number of austerity measures. The Slovenian government issued recommendations on temperature regulation in the state administration and the public sector, the head of the European Commission calls for savings, reduce heating by two degrees, I read some of the headlines that have appeared in the media in the last month on energy savings, electricity and gas and water. Istrian Mayor Miletic warned two days ago that because of the drought lacks water and urged citizens to be responsible for consumption, restrictions on car washing or watering of green areas will also be introduced if necessary. German Deputy Minister of Economy told people to take a short shower and reduce the temperature of heating by at least one stage in the winter, and Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said that what he would now say to people is that they do not warm up when a few days ago they could not sleep from the heat, summer months, people don't get warmed up, everyone spends less electricity, there are, we will give recommendations when the time comes, the prime minister added. And it's not what he said incorrectly or falsely, but it sounds excessively relaxed and somewhat irresponsible given the situation we're in. In doing so, I don't just mean the consequences of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, in that part it seems that we are moving rapidly towards a serious crisis, if Russia shuts down the gas pipe, and we will see what happens after the planned remonting in North Stream 1, Europe will be in serious trouble. The German industry is preparing for the worst scenario, and citizens are mass buying wood stoves, but not all of them are on the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Our responsibility is permanent, is to start treating natural resources and energy differently, climate change and global warming are there, there is no dispute about it, and we need to react urgently. It's not about anyone being scared at any point, it's about getting ready in time. It is nice to boast, for example, with electric cars whose ecological justification is unquestionable, but when the production is summed up, when the battery disposal seems to be questionable to me, but we need to do small steps every day and we need to start there. If we are roughly 4 million in Croatia, which would mean 4 million small steps, and let's say that a man spends 150 liters of water daily, if every day we saved 10 liters a day, that would be 40 million liters of water, that would be 280 million liters of water a week, 14 billion and 600 million liters a year. Try to imagine the warehouse, it's even possible to imagine, of 14 billion and 600 million bottles of water from a liter in one place, I'm afraid it's impossible, and we're talking about saving each of us 10 liters a day less. It's summertime, people don't say our prime minister, it's true, but what it has to do with anything and the gas should be saved by now, what we don't spend, we won't have to buy at extreme prices, but I repeat again, it's not just because of Russia our behavior generally has to change. The EU has set itself optimistic goals to reach by 2050. So let's finally go, let's start acting more responsible every day and make our footprints as small as possible on the ground. So I think it's high time to start a serious informative and educational campaign on how each of us little steps can make a big change in the preservation of the environment and energy savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103199	Thank you very much. Here, given that it is just 1 hour, we will head for the presentation of the position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives' clubs and on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103200	In recent days, we have been listening to from ministers and the most responsible persons in the Republic of Croatia that the people must get used to tightening their belts. That password is everyday, she screams from the front page. However, not only is the price-gathering, not only is inflation, but the gigs that will profit in this crisis, which is the result of both the coronary measures and the headquarters, and of course the war we have in Ukraine. Who's profiting? Profits Kruno Peronja, for example, former mayor, alpha and omega HDZ in Dalmatia. I'll tell you how. You're familiar with the problem of basic human rights that's water, that it's collected 500 percent of electricity, it's not about some luxury of the people, it's about water. And of course, as mayor and parliamentary representative here, I cried out that water should not be collected 500% of our citizens, mainly mountainous and mountainous areas, especially because people know it's not stupid that the problem is gas, in order for them in Zagreb to fill the storage facilities must be charged in rural areas. In Dalmatinska Zagorje, in the Sibenik hinterland, Zadarska, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia. And what's going on? It happens that instead of the answer that I've sent five times a question to receive or to answer, we're not going to help you, that HEP answers that has 4.5 billion kunas in the account, a billion and a half kunas to get an annual HEP, that company of ours, the people's company that we fought for in the war and that ours created. You know what happens instead of talking. They're sending the water supply to the Cetina region. And you know whose lawyer's office it is? The Crown Peronies. The crown of the Peroney of the former mayor. And that's how the system works. And now he's going to charge 10 percent of those tips, he's going to rob the people, and I, as mayor, would have to pick up the water four times. Who? To a simple man, our entrepreneur, who's already got electricity, who won't, who's gonna have to fire the workers, the waiters, the chefs. And this HEP is also the main sponsor of the most honorable, the happiest of our traditions, history, culture, it's our alkas because it's sacred. She ran in honor of the sanctity of the miraculous Lady of Sin, the victory of our great-grandfathers over the Osmajlias in 715. And we've kept it, and we'll keep it, but that's why Krono Peronja and HEP without mercy, without answering, without talking from the government of Andrej Plenkovic, without the Minister who is deaf, will sit in the solemn box and I invite them and will watch the people in Sinjska alci soon in the eyes of how they turned on the dark. And this isn't just about the people of Sinj and the Cetin region of these 50,000 people. This is about the people of Split, Split's hinterland, Omis, mountainous and mountainous areas. And now we have a referendum that we need to ask Bacic's godmothers and Shakespeare what the question for the referendum is that in the 9th month there will be a crisis. What crisis? What's been going on in the media all morning is the headlines to introduce the euro, that we've entered the euro zone. Why didn't the Czech Republic come in, why Poland? Who will be the basic human right, the right to the water that needs to be protected by the Constitution, who will come to turn off the water of man, who will come down, Father Andrej Plenkovic, you will turn off the water when you go to Sinjska Alka. Who's gonna turn off a man with four or five dicks of water? Well, that's basic human rights. They've also collected 4-5 lighting, the price compared to before. But let's say lighting is important but it's not necessary as water. Instead of putting water in the Constitution, to protect these criminals now peeling their skins, you lawyer's office. which is HDZ... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The crown of Peronja, I repeat, executes the people of the cetin region and earns money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103279	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative Ivana Kekin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103280	Thank you. So, I'm going to talk today about the issue that the entire EU is talking about, but at the same time, our government is completely avoiding it. It's certainly a matter of energy supply in the next very close period that comes to us in three months. So, the heating season is coming in 100 days, and our government is Monty Python fucking always looking on the bright side of life. And on this particular topic of energy perhaps more than on any other one of our governments shows not only that it is incompetent and corrupt but that it is able to play for another team, even if it means betraying national interests. And we don't have to go back to the dark times of Sanader's HDZ, whose first associates are with us, and now with us, it's enough to look at what Plenkovic's HDZ is doing. Therefore, Plenkovic's HDZ, which enabled it to continue allowing oligopol MOL and Petrol in Croatia to control more than 3/4 of all gas stations by the way when MOL has now tried to do the same in Slovenia, the European Commission has opened an investigation into the fact that it does not protect the competition and enables abuse. In addition, Plenkovic's HDZ provides MOL with concession contracts such as no excessive country in the EU. So for 50 years, the standard has been the contracts that when you give in the concession of a gas or oil field that one that gives a concession, so in this case Croatia and the company that exploits these fields in this case, share the profit that is achieved by exploitation. We don't share any profits in Croatia. And you can see from the Ministry of Finance's report that literally every year and before this crisis, Croatia lost hundreds of millions of euros because we don't share, we don't share profits in concessions. And how much we're going to lose this year when the conservative assessment that MOL alone in Croatian fields is going to make an extra profit of at least half a billion dollars. How much money Croatia will lose then because of the policy led by Andrej Plenkovic, who cares about Hungarian pockets and does not care about the pockets of Croatian citizens. But in addition to that, in this acute energy crisis, which is sharpened by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the government further leads a bizarre policy in which it prioritises Russian interests and Russian pockets in front of the Croatians. In fact, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council decided at the beginning of the year that all gas storage facilities that exist in the EU must be filled 80% by 1.11. because we know that Putin's main lever is... EU destabilisation is currently going through gas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has only one warehouse, it is an underground gas warehouse around it and could begin to charge in the 3rd month, so from the 3rd month we could start pushing gas there. In fact, LNG Croatia, which co-owned HEP in early April, offered a market supply and delivery of additional gas capacity, therefore it seemed perfectly logical that in a situation where we had to fill this warehouse, in which the government told HEP to fill that warehouse, HEP to buy additional LNG capacities. This seemed logical to us, the government didn't seem logical, so the government gave the Croatian partner Gazprom, which, we remember, is a Russian player who is an EU-rated player, and the Croatian partner is the first gas company whose owner is the one who forgot to register half a million euros worth of customs necklace, so our government concluded that to the first gas company, the Russian player should be given to buy additional LNG capacities. This all means that around now is barely 20% of the fill, so less than it was last year at this time, that we have no idea where they'll get the gas from, and the only thing we know is that this gas will be more expensive than it would be in April, in the meantime the prices have jumped, so Croatian citizens will pay it at least 100 million more than we would have paid for it if we bought it in April, but well, Germany is watching it spend every kilowatt, and Croatia fucks... And he's talking about how we should dress in the assembly while we fry the climate at 19, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103367	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103368	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am going to ask myself today something which is a question that many entrepreneurs and citizens ask themselves, and that is until when the state institutions, ministries, funds, municipalities, cities, counties will use the principle of the fastest finger in the allocation of money from the budget and European funds. Although it has already been written so many times and said that it is a highly unfair model it continues to be used. Energy rebuilding of buildings, resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, concessions to maritime well-being, etc., all of this is shared by the principle of who is faster, not who is better. It doesn't matter what the project is, whether it's good at all, it doesn't matter what it says in the documentation, whether the documentation is even valid, but the most important thing is who's fastest in signing up for the competition. Our people would say who first girl to his girlfriend or, in this case, a considerable asset. You can call anyone, the project can be bad or not good enough, but if you're fast enough they're yours. In a country that has a huge corruption problem, in a country whose economy does not have the same productivity and competitiveness as in developed members, forging the model the fastest finger in the allocation of EU funds and their funds is bad for several reasons. Those who are resourceful are forced, not entrepreneurs who are the best. There is unfair competition and a healthy competition is being killed. The question arises how marketable our economy is in these conditions. There is further dissatisfaction because the Energy Reconstruction Fund is calling for tenders and benefits from the principle of the fastest finger that includes both citizens and entrepreneurs. It's called a total sense of hearing that generates a number of irregularities and injustices. The resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for entrepreneurs were also to be allocated to this notorous method of the fastest finger. All this is more like a prize game, not a serious and elaborate strategy that will raise the productivity and competitiveness of our economy. So far, only two ministries have shared more than 10 billion kuna through competitions in principle. Finally, they realized that this was not the best method, and the pressure of the media and the public forced them to give up in the future. But what about the Energy Reconstruction Fund, which is with local competitions, is whether it will continue to be implemented in the same way, although it is evident that the fastest finger is not nearly the solution that should be applied. Calls should be made public as a matter of principle of the ranking list and allow applications for individual tenders with pre-known conditions and pre-known deadlines, let's say 2, 3 and 4 times a year. Only in this way will applicants be able to plan their projects in due time while the competent authorities will be able to lay down their own processes and capacities to absorb them. In this way, they would provide funds that would be allocated to just the projects that are best, not the fastest applicants. The implementation of the National Recovery Plan should boost further growth of Croatia's GDP in this year and next by 1.4%. In a situation where the global circumstances make economic forecasts worse European money investment even more important. But if money is going to get the fastest, not the best question is whether our GDP is going to grow or remain stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103495	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103496	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, for starters, one great news. The effort of the Homeland Movement and our representative Stipe Mlinarić Cipe was not in vain. Today's freshest news from a few minutes ago, Minister Bozinovic agreed to drop parts of the new Road Safety Act that would force family medicine doctors to report their patients to the police in case of certain diseases or pharmacies, and the police are taking their driving licenses away from them. With full right here several times during the parliamentary debates and press conference, our Cipe asked what will happen to thousands of Croatian defenders who suffer from PTSD and, of course, take medicines for it. Will they be deprived of their driver's license, many of them necessary for a normal life? So we did it. It is a rare case that the ruling party's representatives, congratulating Cipe, have succeeded. The national movement has succeeded and defended the rights of Croatian defenders, the right to a normal life as they certainly deserve. I'll talk about something else. We've only just had one heat wave. We've already got another one coming. The damage to the world economy caused by climate change is numbered in billions of dollars, and we in Croatia have only in the past few months experienced 2 major blows of fights that caused tens and tens of millions of damage to orchards, vineyards, greenhouses and plastics. What does the Croatian Government do at such a time? The defense against the fight leaves her to die slowly. Few remaining workers in the fighting defense system are supplied with 5 times the amount of solution for above ground generators, and that solution expired 2 years ago. After the recent catastrophic fights that hit Croatia's Zagorje and the Varždin area and Međimurje and Banovina and parts of Koprivnica-križevčka, Karlovačka and Zagreb County, our prime minister also ordered, and later specifically told the Minister of Agriculture. What do they say? We'll list the damage and pay off the damaged, recommend setting up anti-urban safety nets, sign the insurance policies. The anti-urban defense, they say, is not as effective as it is, is polluting the environment, there is no scientific justification that exists at all. All in all, one big lie I'm happy to deny. The documents I keep here come from the European Parliament's Research Service, each of you can ask for them and get them, so I did, and in these documents, the anti-urban defence of this is currently used in most EU countries, and I will give you examples from this document: Austria, France, Italy, Slovenia, Spain and Romania. Romania currently has 1.5 million hectares of agricultural land under the defense of fighting. Their plan by the end of next year was raised to as much as 2.3 million hectares. Romanians used a system of anti-urban missiles, here and data, in 2016 fired 759 missiles, and in the past 2021 the number increased to 5,276 rockets and by some estimates, Romanians reduced the damage to their agricultural cultures by as much as 90%. The Romanian government has invested 11m euros through the National Rural Development Programme and subsidized farmers to purchase supernatural generators from which silver iodine comes into the atmosphere and thus, of course, reduces the damage to the fight, or to fight alone. What's our government doing? She says silver iodide has been poisoned, and the WHO report precisely says, during the use of silver iodine in defence of the fight comes to concentrations that are equal to concentrations in the ordinary drinking water that we drink from taps every day. So, lie definitely. France uses anti-urban cannons, Austria special planes like Slovenians, so why don't we use anti-urban defenses too? A very simple answer. As it metastases in all the pores of our society, and in the event of a fight, HDZ wants complete control. They don't care that every year our farmers are going to lose their efforts and do bigger and bigger damages, simply in the manner of the blubbery ficfier, they're going to take out a wallet, a wallet full of our money, and pay that money for the damage we've done. You could have stopped it without a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103598	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103599	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Two years ago now, when I became a parliamentary representative of one of the first topics I was talking about was a fast road to Koprivnica, Podravina, of course, after that to the Djurđevec, the Hungarian border, and if we consider how everything around that road goes, we could paraphrase one classic who got Oscar, called Tramway called longing, so our fast road could be called the Fast Road called longing, because as far as we've been lying, fraud, we've experienced in these 30 years of Croatian independence around this fast road, it's definitely that the show would have earned Oscar. 40 years ago, the first time we started talking about the need to build a fast road towards Koprivnica, respecting then and the strength of our economy and everything that happens as some activity in that one end, then came to the 1990s. where the incompetence of local policies despite the international railway corridor Budapest-Zagreb-Koprivnica, pardon Budapest-Koprivnica-Zagreb-Rijek was not following that road, but it turned out that the fast road was heading towards Hungary through Varazdin, Čakovec and I have nothing against it let all the ends of beautiful our roads develop equally, so it was said that we would get another framework of the fast road, so in 2009 we were directed by the then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader even had the opening of fast road works for Koprivnica where some said that they would never come to Koprivnica again if the fast road was not in Koprivnica, some said that if the fast road was not in Koprivnica 2011 that they would never run for anything again. Of course, the fast road did not reach Koprivnica, some are still in office, some have retired, but it is the same spilled milk, so something started to do on the fast road to the Križevci, which in 2015, came to the Križevci, and in 2017 we had the first chips in the assembly that interpreted them to change coalitions and uniforms, coming to the ruling majority to solve the fast road until the end of their term to Koprivnica. It's the end of that term, the road hasn't moved one foot. So, one meter and now we're already in 2022. In the period of lobbying 2020-2021, we managed to get the ministry to sign a contract with the contractor for the first 7km of the road, which should go from the Križevci to the Military Kloster. But then comes the global crisis, there comes inflation and a lot of, a lot of debates about how it all gathered. I would just draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of roads being done in Croatia today, a good part of them is directed by the state and the ministry, and then there is a legitimate question of what it has accumulated in these 7 kilometers, and it has not gathered elsewhere where it is done. So we were told that we should wait for the government's regulation from which it has now been 2-3 weeks to act when labour, raw materials and materials are collected, but we still have no answers on what is the fast road to Podravina, for Koprivnica. And so with this pay phone I appeal that this tape that lasts with unskilled promises 40 years would be slow but certainly should be completed, that finally these works should go or someone should collect political responsibilities and courage and also get out of the public and say, listen to us all these years just joking, that road is not the goal and will never be the goal, you can complain to the court in Strasbourg because if one end is ahead of its economic activity, if that same country knows it every year means coming by dividend in Podravka, only this year 25 million kuna, and you could go so ooh years back, if there is a wealth of Podravina in the mines, and a mining rental in the minimum form stays in Podravina most countries, and then not talk about the rate where it turns out that the most of it has Hungarians, if we have a 5 public university by the number of students in the same number of Sprivred, because it's only the money from the money that's coming from the money that's so far away from the money that's gone from the money, so far away from the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103671	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103672	INA, of the strongest Croatian company in Yugoslavia and generally the strongest Yugoslav company that employs 34,000 people, a company that has had strong production and processing of oil and gas production, totalled 1,350 wells in '87. year, the largest retail network in the region with 645 petrol stations, strong research and development in Yugoslavia, otherwise in the INI worked 51 doctor of science and 150 masters of science, through a completely unnecessary privatisation in 2002 and corrupting the steering levers in 2009 has come to the conclusion that the INA group today employs only slightly less than 10,000 people, and the INA queen under 6,000 people, huge profits have not yet been made from the Republic of Croatia, and the strategic partner under quotes has not met the majority MOL agreed from the privatisation process, the Sisak refinery has practically shut down, the refinery in Urinj has not yet been modernised, and this investment should have been completed just over 10 years ago and, according to US consultants' estimates from the oil business after taking over the damaged Croatian side by not keeping the agreement for 6.2 billion dollars. This should also be added to new losses from arbitration disputes over a billion and a half kuna, and only to lawyers spent more than 200 million kuna on the budget. In the privatisation of a profitable INE, privatisation was completely unnecessary in 2002 by selling 25 plus 1% of shares for about 500 million dollars, which was a huge underestimated value of INE when taking into account the profits made in the future, and the justification then of the ruling SDP was that on the one hand, the money would go to pay off one war on pensioners, and on the other, that partnership with MOL would bring not only fresh capital to invest and modernise but also a new model of governance that would benefit the company and its employees and interests of the Republic of Croatia. But apparently, the strategic partner saw first and foremost that he would make as many profits as possible from the INE and that he would reach the steering levers that would enable him to do so. Profit was drawn in such a way that he ignored the agreed investment he was doing because he didn't want to do it alone, he didn't want to develop his own oil processing competition for doing his new refineries in Bratislava, so Sisak and Urinj needed either to shut down or to modernise too slowly, and managed them through a proven corruption process related to former Prime Minister Sanader. In their destruction of INA, Croatian authorities have participated directly or indirectly. First through unnecessary privatisation, then through the Special Law on Privatisation of INE, which provides specific rules for privileged acquisition of shares, then through corruption of the highest peaks of government and then through the unwillingness to take the necessary political moves to defend national interests, which implies nationalisation of INE as Argentina nationalised the property of the Spanish company Repsol in 2012. France has nationalised recently as we all know the energy company EDF, which is one of the largest companies in Europe, which will mitigate the impact of energy prices now. Instead of nationalisation of the INE because of the corruption of the MOL peaks and not keeping the deal and the damages of billions of dollars that it has produced, which it has produced for the Republic of Croatia, started in arbitration disputes. Disputes that have proven majority gain corporations in disputes with states and two arbitrations have been lost. An arbitration has also been lost, requiring the annulment of the process which has reached the practical control of the INO with MOL, and the arbitration courts are expected to side with the private company. And the Croatian government continues to file complaints and spend hundreds of millions of kunas on lawyers instead of making a political decision on nationalisation for which all key strongholds exist. We have come to the point that the INA today is the price of what it was, its majority owner is working to become an even more marginal company, to shut down research and development, to shut down both refineries and to have the INU reduced to a retail network of MOL derivatives produced by its refineries outside the Republic of Croatia. In the situation of huge oil prices and huge profits, the Hungarians rub their hands and calculate that they will also draw that profit and thus exceed the amounts invested in the purchase of INE and its modernisation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should have a minimum awareness of strategic and national interests and the exceptional tax on inflationary extras [[Intruder: Thank you.]] crush drastically... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103716	The Honorable Representative Emil Daus will now speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u103717	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the Istrian ipilon is the most important road road road road on the Istrian peninsula, the second line of Učka tunnel is being built, and I hope soon the road towards Matulje where traffic will be accelerated, more traffic safety achieved and towards the interior of the country actually make one quality traffic direction. But on the other hand, the Istrian ispsion ends, or one of its arms in the northwest of Istria just before Plovdiv, the border crossing, shortly after Umag, and turns from highway to road with only two lanes, and it is practically somewhere until entering Kopar. And you can't imagine how much that 10-mile road is a problem it's not a highway. Traffic jams, kilometer columns are unfortunately everyday, especially in the tourist season. It is one of the main entrances of tourists to Istria, about reduced traffic safety does not even need to be talked about. Part of the reason the crowd lies at the border crossing, but an inadequate roadway between the completion of the Istrian Ipsilone and the highway node near Copra is a much bigger problem. We're about to get a better pass, we're going into Schengen, and the traffic problem is going to stay the same. And she is in the Slovenian part of Istria, not in Croatia but about it later. If we want to be competitors as a state, we need to think about quality transport infrastructure. Although in Croatia we have much better main road roads than those railways I have been talking about here in the assembly for years, much effort needs to be made to discuss how to improve the roads in our neighbouring countries, especially those that are the continuation of the main transport corridors of the Republic of Croatia, and the Istrian ipilon, by its importance and volume of traffic, is that. I therefore also appeal from this place to ministers, the foreign ministry, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure to sit together as soon as possible, and then with my colleagues in Slovenia and let the implementation of this key road construction project in Slovenia's coast, but of exceptional strategic and economic interest for the Republic of Croatia. We've been seeing some positive signals in the media lately from the new government in the Republic of Slovenia, starting with removing a razor wire at the border, which is to say hello, as far as I've been able to see there won't be any restrictions on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the same to greet and I think now is the right time to start implementing this project. I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have partners in Istria on this issue because it is our goal for all of us both in institutional institutions or in political terms because it is our goal for all of us to make this road. And this is a supersede issue, this is actually a question of whether we will be high-qualityly networked with other EU member states and whether we will be economically competitive in the European market for goods and services. It's a similar story with railway corridors, and today I don't want much about them, there's not much time left, and the topic requires a lot more than two minutes. But just once again, I will draw attention to the ongoing revision of the TEN-T network in the EU, and it is an opportunity to join the Rijeka Luka on the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, and to join Trieste and Pula in a modern railway connection. I will often repeat this because we think it is very important, the transport link between cities, municipalities, the region of the Republic of Croatia with the environment is very important, especially with our western neighbours because it is simply a fact that these roads are coming and passing a large number of traffic and services important to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119957	Now I'm going to do the same on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with what the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives, propose to conduct a united debate on the following two points, is: - Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and - Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, I would like to say that we have decided to conduct a united debate on the above points as I have announced them. The motions are 92 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 147. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The government has delivered its opinion. Before I give my word to the promoter, we have requests for a break, first in line is a respected colleague of Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119958	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs are asking for a 10-minute recess for additional consultations, above all, to explain why the centre party will vote against this HDZ proposal. The Constitution is a fundamental document of every state. He shows how they're so-called. The eyes of a nation or at least one generation devise the future of their country. In the past 30 years, HDZ has made the state on its own. From election units, territorial structure and beyond. And for 30 years this country has systematically destroyed. At the same time, this HDZ proposal is known to require a progressive opposition to enter the Constitution. In addition to that Constitution, it does not work in other relevant segments. For example, in defining relations between the president of the state and the government, in co-creation of foreign policy, in the management of secret services and in many other areas. No one has ever seen what the constitutional authority of the president of the state actually looks like to care for the stable and coordinated functioning of the state government and what that should mean. We've got leaks of provisions, inconclusive in practice like that that the president of the state can call on the government to hold a joint session, but at the same time without the government's obligation to respect such a will of the president of the state. Honorable representatives of the Constitution are not ordinary laws that change just like that. And it is unacceptable to have democracy or constitutional changes only to the extent that HDZ fits. If we are mature enough as a state, if we have sufficient degrees of democratic maturity, then let us stop treating our Constitution as a dead letter on paper and accept serious changes to ensure our new generations a decent life in their homeland, not somewhere in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119959	The apartment is approved. The second one's up, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119960	The attempt at violence and fraud failed at the first step. You tried to put past the plan before the summer break to discuss the amendment of the Constitution that you want to completely kill the referendum. To hand over all the powers contrary to the first article of the Croatian Constitution under which all power comes from the people, so as to hand over all powers to the Constitutional Court in order to start at the very beginning before the process even takes place and the citizens show their position on a matter to kill the referendum in its beginning. Those who assist you in this may not even realize what it is I hear they're giving up. He won't support you. And this attempt of yours will not pass. You may have been able to deceive part of the opposition for a moment, but you will not succeed before autumn which will be extremely difficult to take away from the people the only institute in which I can, between the elections, express my position on certain issues. In these 30 years of Croatian independence, we haven't had a lot of referendums. You did well, but the citizens still had the opportunity to collect signatures and force the government, remember the monetization, remember the Labour Act, let's remember 67 is too much, make the government give up its moves. What you're proposing wouldn't make it possible either. But as I said at the very beginning, the ones you deceived, which we've been connecting from the beginning, not to go to meetings with you, give up and change the Constitution that would make it completely impossible. The referendum will not pass. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119961	We're going on a third request, dear colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119962	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes in order to warn that these constitutional changes are certainly making something good, as is the introduction of the threshold of turnout and the adoption of a referendum decision that we are not putting ourselves in a position that a very small number of voters are making a referendum but also a series of things that will really make it impossible for a possible referendum, which is why the Workers' Front will not accept these changes. First of all, the real fear of the people cannot be limited to what will be asked as a question in the referendum, here it is very broadly set, Art. 1st, Art. 3. The Constitution, practically by this means any referendum issue can be abolished. The second thing, as one constitutional expert said, is not about checking the constitutionality of the issue, is not a referendum issue of cheese, so if it stays open, so you can't have the possibility of checking constitutionality twice, the constitutionality of the referendum issue, so you can manipulate it, you can ask the question before collecting the signature, and now you can also ask after collecting the signatures. And another paradox of my colleague and colleagues, under these rules of the referendum, we would not be in the EU today, here are the rules of association and unification of the supranational community in such a way that such a decision can be made with more than 50% of the voters enrolled, and in the EU it has come out so that they have entered into the whole, by quite another rule, means double criteria and indeed cynicism. What should certainly be said is that the referendum launched by the progressive opposition, which will be launched by the progressive opposition most likely to restore the right to abortion of women in the constitution, will be our own initiative, which I hope will pass on to the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119963	Thank you very much. The break is approved. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's his first colleague, Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119964	He's been injured. 238, I'm glad the Workers' Front won't be part of this anti-national and anti-referendum coalition, but it's not a good thing to introduce a quorum of acceptance. Why? So because we do not have a list of voters in Croatia, we have almost the same voters as the population and introduce something like that at this point, it would mean that the referendum has to go out and round up more people than it will, for example. HDZ and partners win the election and then make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119965	My colleague Grumo, a colleague of the Grumo, you get, you get a warning, I see that we are going in the direction now already and colleagues of Peovic, she also reacted to the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate and I will now, given that there are many reported, I warn you that I will begin to warn you during this breach of the Rules of Procedure if they will be pure replicas like this now, we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119966	I gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119967	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119968	Your Honor, Mr. President. 238, I'm very glad that there's been a disclosure here and that everyone now sees that we have a progressive opposition that includes We can!, Bridge, the Workers' Front, the SDP that are against no longer collecting 400 thousand signatures but only 250 thousand signatures, too...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119969	My colleague Zekanovic, my colleague Zekanovic, please, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my first warning, I ask you not to do this, I have now warned and I will be really rigorous there now, there is no point, we have enough time, you have by clubs, individually, replicas, there are many mechanisms, stick to it. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119970	A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. 238. Is he disrespecting the MPs, but the fact is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119971	Which, in what way, fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119972	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119973	In what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119974	He disdained the representatives is the fact that he is with you the graver of the referendum, graver of the constitution, graver of democracy, and remains king of dictatorship...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119975	You get your friend Bulj, you get your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119976	...you became Mr. Zekanovic with Jandrokovic king of dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119977	My colleague Bulj you get now and the second warning, the second, two warnings you get, please let's not do this, I invite you to stick to the rules of the game because there are many reported today and it will take a long time to debate and don't do that. Comrade Pavlich, you asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119978	Dear President HS, we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to reiterate once again that Croatian sovereigns will not support these proposed amendments to the constitution as well as the proposed amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Institute of Referendum in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately a dead letter on paper, it just shows because we've been in the last 30 years. had only 3 referendums of which two mandatory and one on behalf of the citizens' initiative. These proposed amendments to the constitution will absolutely resolve nothing in this respect. This only shows that the ruling colors of their own people and the will of their own people and their direct decision in the referendum. The proposed amendments to the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law shall be given to a clean political body by the Pharaohic powers which, in the beginning, will be able to declare any referendum initiative anti-constitutional and will not allow it to be implemented. We all know how the judges of the constitutional court are elected, and we all know what decisions a constitutional court makes, mostly how the ruling majority blinks is left or right. Once again we appeal that absolutely nothing of this kind of change will succeed, and that at the beginning of every will of the people, you will kill directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119979	The apartment is approved. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119980	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes. Here I would like to say loud and clear that the Homeland Movement will not support the change of the constitution, that Croatian people are deprived of freedom of expression through a referendum. Under these rules, what you are now pushing to change the constitution with the left is the question is would the only referendum that has passed, which is a referendum on marriage that is a union of men and women. Based on such rigorous changes, this referendum would probably not have passed either. Therefore, you took away the Croatian people other than money, poverty, dignity, now, with this amendment you want to take away the only hope they had of collecting signatures, so that I can decide some things and changes in the state, unfortunately now with this amendment you will take away their right. Why is it that when you change the constitution why you don't bring 40% of voters out for the elections, 40% of voters, and you wouldn't be sitting there today, and neither would this be the ruling majority without talking about the elections in Split. Why doesn't the censorship of how many voters must go to the polls to be valid? Nothing, thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119981	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119982	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear President, I know it's your right to set the agenda, but when we approach the change of the Constitution, when we have two initiatives that are proposed, then it was expected that we will discuss both of these initiatives. But you decided not to talk about one. It's your decision, only you know the reasons. However, the debate that will be held today and which will result in Friday's vote does not lead to a change in the constitution. It only leads to the start of a process involving a number of discussions on the Constitution Committee, which establishes one draft, which includes consultation with the interested public, which is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 9 years ago and which will only afterwards result in something that will represent an actual act that represents our future Constitution, at least in one part, in a section that will change. I urge you to be open. You will make this decision, you have a majority for it and it is not disputed, but I urge you to be open, to listen to all those proposals that will be made today and later during the debate on the Committee on the Constitution and that ultimately the decision we will make will be in favour of all citizens and citizens of this country. I am convinced that in the Croatian political system there is power to talk, to consensus and to create an act that will benefit everyone, not just one part of our society. That's the appeal I'm giving you. We won't attack, we won't insult, we won't attack on Tuesday to record videos, [[Thank you very much.]] as suddenly as I come to Zagreb, even though it is Monday's session, [[Intruder: A fellow coat of arms, please.]] We'll talk. [[Employer: A colleague of Grgin.]] We'll talk, but I hope you'll listen, too. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119983	You get a warning, you ignore my warning three times, you get a warning. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119984	President-in-Office of the Parliament, and here we are on behalf of the HDZ Club and we are looking for a break, a break of 10 minutes to further clarify and agree on the proposed amendments, both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. When you listen like this by participating in work and committees, they're fascinating now... There are a variety of the thesis that this is just a proposal from the HDZ, that it is excitable, that it has been inserted past the procedure and in this direction all the meals are going, but the fact is, they are speaking completely different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The subjective proposal for amendments is the fruit of a process that lasted, agreed upon, signed by several representatives, not only members of the ruling club but also other members. Unfortunately, in these other parts, all these opposition parties are contrary to all that some opposition parties are contrary to any proposal that stands out for HDZ, and most of them are certain that this substance that is proposed by the Constitution and constitutional laws is being changed, and it is the area of referendum, sub-normised, that it needs to be further defined and we think that the proposed amendments are logically legislative and that they have meaning and life in the implementation of what is important for the implementation of the referendum. No one is contesting any lunches that go towards reducing the possibility of holding a referendum, I think they are wrong, reducing the threshold of the necessary signatures, introducing a prejudicial way of maintaining the implementation of the constitutional issue in order to make all procedures as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119985	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Grmoya, you're the first. Comrade Bulj, you have, colleague Grmoya one, and colleague Bulj two warnings, so I warn you to be careful. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119986	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Katičić has brought forth a series of lies. If we surrender to the Constitutional Court, there will be no referendum because that Milanovic asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the marriage referendum, [[Agreement: A colleague of Grumo.]] And he wouldn't have gone like that either. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] which the Constitutional Court brought down all the referendums. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119987	You're getting a second warning now. I don't know, I mean, I'm asking you to stick to the rules that exist in our Rules of Procedure. Why don't you do it? Now you will speak, colleague Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the club of representatives. You have individual discussions, you have replicas. So don't do it. Comrade Bull, here you go. You're giving up. Okay. Let's move on, break explanation, colleague of Glamuzina, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119988	I thank the president of HS, reporting on behalf of the Social Democrats for the party, and I want to explain why we gave the signatures to this initiative. So in those rare situations when HDZ recognizes that some changes in the country need to be reached by consensus, especially when it comes to the Constitution of this country, yes, we will then accept the opportunity to enter that conversation. We will accept the opportunity to take part in the debate on changes to the Constitution in accordance with our social democratic values and by trying maximum, as far as possible to influence these changes to reflect the thinking of our citizens, the thinking of those citizens who share our beliefs. To be clear, what I know is that no matter how malignant the attacks on us are, especially by those who can least speak of political correctness and morality, we have not voted for a single proposed change. We gave the signature of consent to discuss constitutional changes coming to HS order. Think about it, try to think about it, it's not hard to understand. All you have to do is think about it. We will discuss everything, try to influence these changes in the interest of our beliefs. There is no party in this House that has not argued for the last month, two days, that it is necessary to discuss and amend the Constitution and the Law on Referendum, and now that this opportunity has come to be done, it is now pointing to the fingers of those who have consistently and in principle behind what they have said, that we will discuss this and that in this debate we will defend our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119989	The apartment is approved. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119990	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Istrian Democratic Assembly up to 10 minutes to further consult and look back at all of this. The IDS is the view that changes to the Constitution need to be discussed, that it should be discussed and negotiated because it is a fundamental document, a fundamental legal act by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and on Friday we will support going to the parliamentary procedure in the debate. About the vote, about accepting the Constitution, that's another story in the third step. But to discuss this, it should also be about the referendum, but it should also be about some other issues. I am saddened by the fact that yesterday at a joint session of the two committees of parliament that decide on this, an opposition proposal has not been accepted, part of the opposition to go and another proposal to amend the Constitution into the parliamentary procedure. Then it would be less, a little less hypocritical of the whole story because you need to talk about such things. And another, I would use the President immediately this minute to point out, given the growing population and demagogy in this assembly, that it may be high time except for the Constitution to change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119991	Thank you very much, and your break has been approved. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119992	238, insulting and demeaning parliamentary representatives, insulting the intelligence of MPs, insulting the elemental logic. So, you've been having an argument with your ex-boyfriend from the opposition, and even without your signatures, this could have come here in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119993	My colleague, you're starting, you're replicating... Your colleague Rasdić, a colleague of the Rasdic, gets a warning. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] You're getting a warning this was a replica, no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, since there's been a lot of demands, we'll take a break in 10 hours and 5 minutes. It's 9:00.55. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] I will now call on the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of these proposals, a respected colleague, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a united debate on two decisions to initiate amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitution is indeed a fundamental act, a fundamental document of every state from which its basic architecture is seen, the way of the government, how they are set up and how human rights are laid, independent bodies of the judiciary and others are also seen, and how this Constitution changes whether and how important the document is that the special procedure for amending the Constitution is, and that is, the one in three, in three phases. The first stage is at all just making a decision on accession to change. We are at this stage today, making a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. The second stage is the establishment, establishment of the draft amendments, and the third is the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law itself. For these two first stages of this, so to speak, it takes half the majority of all MPs, and for this third change of two-thirds. So, when the Constitution is changed and the constitutional law is a special procedure and it is an extremely important issue of this very change. What we want, here I am representing and speaking on behalf of 92 MPs and advocates of support for this decision at this stage is quite high. We are indeed going to take this other two phases seriously into account what this thought is, what is proposed, how to get the best solutions because this amendment of the Constitution and the constitutional law is aimed at better regulation of the issue of the referendum. Here on our benches there was a referendum law, and I think the vast majority agreed that he was taking steps towards a better one. However, without a change to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, this all together will not actually bring any improvements. Even one club has asked, in fact, for the conclusion that we commit to entering constitutional changes. Here, we started this first point today, and I don't think these remarks that we're doing something secret or something because if we actually did do it now, I think that in all the media it's already known our intentions and our proposals are actually how to regulate it in the future. So here's my job would be just to say these few basic things that we want to do. We see that the matter of the referendum is indeed substantiated and that there are very few provisions that determine precise and clear actions. One of the important requirements was to reduce the number of signatures actually in order to reach a referendum at all. Today it is 10% of the total number of voters in the list of RS voters. We here propose this proposal not to be a percentage but to be 250,000 signatures and it is already by 100,000 and more than 100,000 less than what it is today. It is also important how decisions are made in the referendum. We see today, we once had a threshold, today we no longer have a threshold, we are now re-proposing to introduce this quorum of support, and our proposal is when it comes to changing the Constitution or organic laws to most of those who went to the referendum, and yet the majority that are for the must be 1/3 for the Constitution and the organic laws, and 1/4 or 25% for those other acts that are being passed. We also have one point relating to the amendments to the Constitution, which is the mandatory referendum on mergers, unifications, exits from communities, and we suggest that most of the total number of voters be required. And one nomotechnical change related to the Constitution, which is that we give the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to resolve and disputes arising from the referendum procedure. As for the Constitutional Court means here is a very important and major change, we have a situation today that when the signatures are collected, after they mean this verified as a sufficient number, and then you can ask for a check of the constitutionality and permission of this issue and then the Constitutional Court comes to the stage and decides whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. We here suggest that this, this part of it be introduced before the signing, means when the organisational committee comes out with the initiative and asks the question that it is possible then to open a check. It can be 15 MPs from the Croatian Parliament, it can be the government, it can be the President of the Republic, it can come before the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court says whether it is allowed or not. According to our provisions, the unauthorized constitution would be regarding issues related to exclusive competences and parliaments, both the president and the government. And also what it means is contrary to our values of the system as set out in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution. Therefore, they would have the right to initiate such a procedure, meaning 15 MPs, government, assembly of the Republic of Croatia, president of the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand they should submit it within 30 days of the date on which the issue was announced, and the Constitutional Court should take a decision on that matter within 30 days. They would also retain that power that the Assembly has today, but provided that these possibilities have not been used, it means that a preliminary check of the constitutionality of the issue is requested if it is not requested and after the signatures have been collected then the Assembly could request a constitutional check in this case. We believe that, in this way, we would improve the important legislative normative framework for a referendum that is indeed quite missing today and all of these remarks that go in order to centralise everything in the hands of the constitutional court. In fact, when we look at the constitutional court today after the signatures have been collected, this one decides on it whether it is in accordance with the constitution, whether or not it is worth it. In this way, in principle, this previous verification if the Constitutional Court said that it was not de facto, it could draw a certain conclusion and the question could be raised again in some way, as it would say, if, if this question is now well put in some other step then we could be able to win this referendum and I think that this is a better solution than it is on the scene today. I have to say here on behalf of the promoter and I was at a joint session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Law yesterday, it was a very constructive and good debate. I'm going to say it as the promoters we're listening to, we've got two more steps as promoters, we're on 92 signatures today, we're aware that in the second and third steps it can go and much more, but we're aware that if the process is bad, it can go the other way. The debate was very constructive and I would say that there were a lot of affirmative actually opinions about that we want to regulate this issue and we really want to regulate it in, in, in the community with, with all the MPs, no matter who the opposition is, who the position is in the way of finding the best solutions, two of us have detected the issues that are open, and this is exactly what the talk was about, whether it was too much concentration put on the constitutional court and whether it was given a really wide discretionary assessment that is one question, and the other question is whether this quorum of support to the referendum was too high or should be put down. These are the things we'll talk about in step two and step three. We're ready to see what the academic community actually thinks, and all of us, of course, will be consulting with the interested public, so we'll actually see where we are. Here, Mr. President, this is our proposal, and we expect support to actually get into these two other steps is whether to determine the draft changes and then bring them some changes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119996	Comrade Bošnjakovic, you haven't done half the work, you have 25 replicas, so we're starting now with colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119997	I certainly hope you won't succeed in your intention because with a quorum this high at the end if you bring it down to 30% instead of 33% which is 1/3, we should probably clap, and it's clear that in this political situation with this kind of turnout, no quorum is acceptable to what goes in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and my question is on that trail. When you, as a Proposer or Government of the Republic of Croatia, offered the Law on Referendum, you have just called upon the code of good practice of the Venice Commission, so you consider it an important argument in the creation of a law that you obviously respect. Why are you not consistent with this, why do you not want to follow the Venice Commission's recommendation not to use the quorum in the referendum initiatives and more importantly that you have against those key recommendations of the Venice Commission, which is that citizens themselves in the referendum decide to amend the constitution relating to the referendum issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119998	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u119999	Dear colleagues, the second and third steps are ahead of us, and in the second and third steps here I already said in the introduction that we had already understood yesterday that most participants were actually very appealing to the precisely question of the quorum of support, so on the other hand we will talk about it and we will see where it will take us, from someone, from some to say the figures we had to go, some previous initiatives were moving from 40% to the changes in the constitution, we came here to 1/3, we will see where this will take us, we want to do actually better for the whole, for the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120000	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120001	Thank you. In your presentation somewhere, you indicated that about 2 out of 4 let's just say the question could still be discussed, so that's the quorum of support where we have particular problems meaning with a third part, which is the unification and unification of the national community purely because of consistency, and you could even say cynicism, so we have entered the EU with a number of votes that would not be enough, therefore, by these criteria to be in the EU now that you have put more than 50% of the voter in place to vote for a referendum issue in this regard. And secondly, you said this is the constitutionality of the issue, the constitutionality of the question, you're still open to talking about it, so what's the problem, if we have opportunities at the beginning of the signing and after the signing, asking the question of constitutionality can be manipulated, right, why isn't the issue of constitutionality being asked at one point, in another, it's necessary to define why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120002	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120003	We are ready to discuss anything to improve our system. It was here yesterday on, on this very committee that an interesting question was asked whether we need the majority and that some country is now joining the EU and that is the question, is it not? These are the things we need to find an answer to and then maybe a different set of things. As for this, if we had a successful EU referendum on these thresholds, I could say, perhaps we would have a greater interest and awareness of the importance of going to the referendum, so that we cannot say now either you or I would be one way or the other. It would be at a given moment in accordance with the conditions. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120004	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120005	The consequence of the violation of the Constitution and the assistance of the Constitutional Court of that state is the lowest paying power of our Croatian citizens after Bulgarians. The signator of this proposal, Branko Bačić, is known for keeping black money in black bags given to him by Ivo Sanader. In any functioning democracy, no decent one would sign a proposal signed by Bacic. We testify that Branko Bačić's initiative was supported by 92 MPs in HS. Do you think British parliamentarians or Austrian MPs are crazy because they seek the responsibility of their political leaders? Do you really think you can do your corruption and anti-Croatian work to infinity?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120006	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120007	We have a very important role, we represent a large part of the majority in the Parliament, which actually takes care of the governance of the state. All these results we have, we have become these last 30 years members of the EU, NATO members, are now entering this, in the eurozone, all of this has been achieved by hard work and on this trail and we remain. And this proposal, which is ahead of us, means an improvement and a step forward in building a democratic society. So all that you've been saying is there's a lot of responsibility for people to make all the decisions we make to benefit our citizens. All that was black, which was that zone, there are courts that sanction it and a lot of actually decision and in that direction we have so that on that side and beyond HDZ with all its members will actually work and make decisions to improve this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120008	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You gave up? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[And you're too serious.]] [[Intruder: No, I gave up because it doesn't make sense, this is ridiculous and the Croatian people see it without harm.]] Yeah, yeah. Okay, and you're very serious, unlike the others who are funny. Thank you very much. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120009	Thank you very much. So, the Constitution is Can I? [[Truth hurts, huh? Is it true, Mr. Boric?]] [[Adversity President: Fellow Vidović Kristo, you get, you get, you get a warning.]] I can. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash and I'll give you back 5 seconds.]] Oh, great, thanks. Thank you. So, what I'm about to do, the Constitution is certainly our basic act and I'm putting it that any, any changes should really approach very seriously and very responsiblely, I'd say, very cautiously and not be brought into a situation that one of these fundamental acts changes every moment, which we don't actually do. But at this point, we have yet another request to amend the Constitution, and I, as a proposing, ask you your position, or your opinion. I think it would be much smarter if we had one and the other proposal in the same day because it was possible, to discuss the second proposal, to vote on one and the other proposal, it's about one Constitution, the fact is that two different topics are so I have to ask you as a promoter, what is your position, would it not be better to discuss at the same time, or maybe you have some reasons why you think That's not good? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120010	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120011	We have been very clear that we will go into the amendments to the Constitution regarding only the matter of the referendum because we believe that this is a matter where we can reach a consensus. This second question, which is on the agenda, is not certain that it is possible to reach such consensus, and as far as the substance of this issue is concerned, we also had a recent debate in the Assembly, where we said our fundamental views on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120012	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120013	Thank you very much. The Constitution, above the Constitution is only God and they fought bloodyly for the Constitution and that power belongs to the people. However, what you are doing, constantly, and this proposal confirms that you are gravers of direct democracy, gravers of the referendum, you are gravers of this constitution, which you bury, for which the blood has been shed, you have made that we must give our proposal because citizens who will collect the signatures before announcing to Sheparović, Branko Bačić, Vladimir Seks. And more specifically, it would have been more correct if you'd said we'd end the whole referendum. I call on the Croatian people, initiatives, all of you MPs who, you have a free spirit, let's organise a referendum on the referendum. No questions from the Constitutional Court, Branko Bačić, His best man, Sheparovic, and his best man, Sheks. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120014	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120015	We're not any gravediggers of democracy, we don't end a referendum here at all, he sets himself on different grounds. After all, these rules of the referendum know others in a democratic sense a state-of-the-art, perhaps even more advanced country than we do, so on the other hand, I think this is just a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120016	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120017	Dear colleague, unlike most colleagues here in this assembly, I joined a politician through referendum initiatives. First of all, here I mean a referendum on marriage, which takes place at the time of the SDP's authority, but I think of other referendums, the Sea is land,... a declaration today and I'll say this thing first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our biggest problem was always that number of signatures, 400 thousand signatures, so I welcome the idea of reducing the number of signatures to 250 thousand. But here I have to comment with great certainty that those who are the loudest here today, to protect the referendum, were the main saboteurs and undertakers of the referendum initiatives. I will remind you, when we organised a referendum against Istanbul, then the bridge team invented a referendum People decided to fail a referendum against the Istanbul Convention, and today their mouths are full of referendums and protection of referendum initiatives, and in fact they are the main culprits of the collapse. referendum initiatives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120018	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120019	I don't think we should leave the position to protect the referendum we have today. We should all, in fact, strive together to make this referendum better. That he works better in society in principle. We believe that these changes we put on the table among other things you correctly said with 360,000 signatures we come to need 250, now it was necessary in 15 days to collect we saw according to the bill offered 40 days. So we think that some things are important better than they are today, and that should actually be a tendency for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120020	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120021	Thank you very much. Comrade Bosnjakovic, so we have two directions as far as I see here this morning at this short time how this debate is going to go. One is the populist one, we heard a lady who reads the replicas so she had no injury to the Rules of Procedure to read, so she went outside, we heard those who turn to the public in the night and come to save the people, in the assembly to prevent the debate as far as I understood it, sitting neatly here and the debate flows. So on the other hand, those who really want us to go back 2 months and I don't know how far back when we had the first reading of the referendum law really to settle the matter of the referendum. And for that, we made some moves, offered a proposal. There are also those responsible who want to solve this issue and those who want to take some political points. In my opinion, today's debate will show. In the second and third steps will be what is most important, to see indeed those who will, can and know how to resolve a particular issue or those who wish exclusively to politicise because at the debate on the law, everyone was in favour of going to constitutional changes. And to change the story of the referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120022	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120023	Thank you. This is a political arena where different attitudes and different opinions are expected, different proposals, and I will be pleased if we can get out of it some things that we can put in our proposals for a second step, for a third step and get out of this whole process with one better draft, with one better solution than we have today. No one, no one should take the right to guard democracy, to keep this or that because all of us sitting here together are all actually in that role.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120024	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120025	Dearly respected, the Croatian state rests on three pillars of government, executive, legislative and judicial authority. However, the proposed amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court give Pharaoh's powers to the Constitutional Court or to the Court of Justice and you violate let's say this balance so far. In particular, what the Constitutional Court means may declare any referendum issue unconstitutional if it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One very broad term and I think you're making a huge mistake, and we all know that the Constitutional Court wanted us to admit it or not a political body that often makes decisions in favour of the ruling majority regardless of whether it's left or right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120026	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120027	Yesterday, what my colleague Pavliček said, yesterday this was dominant I could say dominantly at a joint committee session, and in fact, many MPs pointed out that they were given too broad powers. Now that we look at the situation as it is today and today it is. The Constitutional Court today, at the end when the signatures are collected, also assesses whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Another technique and another methodology is precisely indicated when there is actually no referendum. I have to say when I read an initiative before so it's said there can't be a referendum on defence, can't be about finance, can't be about foreign policy, can't be about human rights, can't be about the rights of national minorities, when I saw it I was actually wondering what it could be about, you know. So these are basically two methods that we have to now in this second and third steps in cooperation, actually, as I said with both the professional and all the interested public, actually grind out and see where we are, but now the situation is that the Constitutional Court has huge powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120028	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120029	So when we read the provisions of this proposal of the Law on Referendum which you put into the procedure in March and put it in proportion to this relationship and certain synergy assumptions with the hope of failure, then we come to the conclusion that you have completely and quite franticly taken the position of choking national initiatives because in the current proposal of the Law on Referendum there are already several control mechanisms in the previous part of the procedure before the collection of the procedure from the State Election Commission, from the presentation of the position of the Parliament, the Prime Minister on this referendum, and the Constitutional Court itself said in that position that only it must and may be referred to the procedure after the signatures collected, you are now actually putting it at the beginning of that story. Why, why, explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120031	Comrade Sacic, if we go with this previous means checking today we'll come by saying the first answer, and we haven't all spent that social energy we want to sign or we won't so the Constitutional Court will assess whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not. If the Constitutional Court says it is not you, then you can re-form the question only this time when you see the argument of the Constitutional Court there is the possibility of making the issue constitutionally permitted. So I think this gives us a better chance of this referendum organization than this situation we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120032	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120033	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, when the laws are passed, when the constitution is changed, I guess the experience of a country is seen. If Croatia had a referendum in its 30s and slightly more years, I suppose the proposal for this assembly should go in the direction of the referendum liberalising itself, not that you are further handing over powers to those who are almost for every referendum issue when they were asked that the referendum issue is unconstitutional. We had a referendum, a referendum on marriage. Why did we have it? Because this high house did not ask the Constitutional Court whether it was a constitutional issue or not. If he had asked him, the answer would have been that it was unconstitutional and you would now be asking about every question, so the Constitutional Court, which you've excavated, is the issue constitutional or not. You can explain that logic to me, and speak as if you wish to make the referendum possible. [[Intruder: Here you go...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120034	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120035	The bush, therefore, is a smaller number of signatures, a larger number of days when it is collected, and as I have already said once, when you ask the Constitutional Court question whether or not the issue is allowed, let's assume that he says no, but from that explanation, why it is not allowed, and you will reshape the question and go with the new question and if you have agreed with the Constitution, then the referendum is possible. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120036	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120037	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleague Bosnjakovic. We know and should remind the Croatian public that the first reading went through this assembly and where it was only important to increase the duration of the signing from 2 weeks to 4 weeks, as much memory serves me. With this change in the Constitution, you go to the censorship that you downloaded when you needed for the EU to enter Croatia. Switching to the Constitutional Court that everything, that has a good share in deciding on the issue, and if we know that the Constitutional Court is actually the expenditure politicians of HDZ and SDP to sit, honor of exceptions, honor of exceptions, to sit in the Constitutional Court, and if you succeed in SDP, as we see that you will seem to agree, then everything is clear and that it actually suits both you and them to go into the change of the Constitution, could change in the second reading all that you counted without censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120039	My colleague Mlinarić, therefore you still have in this system a Constitutional Court whose, as we say, is final. According to what we are proposing now, the Constitutional Court previously assesses the question, gives an explanation, if it considers it illegal, but you have the right, therefore, to change that question, to bring it into line with what the Constitutional Court says, and then we go to the referendum. I think this, that this gives us a much greater chance of a referendum than the system we have today. I think it's welcome, if we had two weeks, four weeks or 40 days, now I don't know, and also, from 360 we let it go to 200, I think it's 250, I think it's okay to step out. And the thing about the census, we used to have a census, so then we didn't, and now we're returning it again because we think that, the Constitution really does, and these legal organically can only be changed if the majority is qualified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120040	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120041	Thank you, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. You said earlier, I think rightly, that already in this model of Croatia we have too many, great powers of the Constitutional Court already now. I will warn that in the world there is a phenomenon of judicial activity where courts actually change the key rules of society, so the question arises if the Constitutional Court is wrongly interpreted, let's say the fundamental right to life, such as in judgment around so-called. The right to abortion, why would people trust the Constitutional Court for other matters. So you are increasing with this proposal, not reducing, but increasing the powers of the Constitutional Court which did not deserve the trust of the people, and therefore many citizens are skeptical and cynical because they do not, unfortunately, I would like to believe in our institutions differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120042	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120043	A fellow Bartulic, some have confidence, some do not. So we can't talk in some kind of absolute sense that it's absolutely untrustworthy. In any case, there are groups that are considered by the majority in fact, which consider many decisions of the Constitutional Court to be good. The Constitutional Court has been elected in accordance with constitutional provisions. Some say it's a trade, some say it's one way or another, but the Constitutional Court in our court is doing its functions correctly, the decisions it makes are, here, for us, some of them are in our favor, some of us are not in favor, our opinion, I'm not going to say it like this, but I'm still thinking, I'm going to repeat, that this system that we're proposing offers a greater possibility of organising a referendum on a new system than the old one. Because here by old, when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, it's a decision, and by the new system, so he makes a decision, but you can reshape the question and go to the second round and organise a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120044	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120045	Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. The key question of this proposal of yours is why are you afraid of the people who chose you? What mandate did he give you to represent him here? That's the key question when you read this proposal. When you look at what the referendum is for, the referendum serves to tell citizens of any country who are in power to do something wrong and to do something different. When you look at the most developed countries in the world, then it is the referendum of the institute where the people chosen by the people ask this people how to lead the country. Look at Switzerland and tell me that the model in Switzerland is worse than what we have. What is the second problem, what colleagues say, is the transfer of power to the Constitutional Court, it is a question of the inability of the ruling to take responsibility for what is their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120046	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120047	My colleague Brumnic, no one is afraid of the people. The system we are proposing is considered to be a step forward, to facilitate and facilitate a referendum. This is not a transfer of power to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has them today. This is in principle, allowing the Constitutional Court to make a decision, but you as a motion for a referendum, if the Constitutional Court takes the view that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, you can rephrase the question, meaning come to the same, only with a different possible explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120048	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120049	Thank you. Comrade Bošnjakovic, the Constitution has not changed in Croatia for more than a decade through the Parliament. The key to that change more than 10 years ago. It was a conversation and reaching a consensus, in this way we came up with some solutions that are good and some that are in practice and not as good as we expected them to be, you will now be open to a number of remarks which have already been sent to the Committee on the Constitution's meeting yesterday or your position will be what we have suggested or not. This is a key question for us to know if it makes any sense to participate in this debate and in what way, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120050	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120051	A fellow coat of arms certainly makes sense, and we've already talked about it when we refer these decisions to the procedure, of course we need to talk about this second stage and that third stage, and we care very much about actually reaching a consensus. We're not, we're not saying that, yes, we're not hearing. I've already pointed out in this debate that I saw the important points of yesterday's debate, right. These are, of course, this quorum related to, the turnout, the support of the referendum and of course this authority to the constitutional court whether or not to be counted, which there is no referendum at all, such as your proposal of 2018, seems to me or to be given some broad definition that will allow the constitutional court to consider all these issues, but we will discuss not only the ones we are here but I think it needs to be even more widely opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120052	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120053	Thank you. In your presentation, you said you didn't do anything sneaky, quote you. Well, since you're not a summer break, last week, the day before you put this debate into HS, so what it is is a disrespect to the Croatian Constitution, so the constitution is a serious thing and it cannot be smuggled in this way. I'll congratulate you, however, because you've already won a great victory with this, you've won a political victory because you've managed to compromise the part of the opposition that signed this because you dragged them into your snake hug. Your reputation cannot be further broken, for you, it is only your clientele, it is these 17% you had, by overthrowing your turnout you have received power, but you can certainly compromise others because this debate could have been conducted with 76 or 77 signatures as much as you have in the ruling majority so that the explanation of the part of the naive opposition falls in the water I repeat, which has hardly been compromised with this that they now wanted to discuss here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120054	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120055	Dear Rasudiæ, we don't want to compromise anyone, we haven't been hiding anything, we've been having talks with all the clubs about these issues for a few months now, and after that, the public is aware of it, and this is just the first step, and we're still going to talk about this, and after the summer break, you're going to have a chance, and I'd like your club to get involved in the debate about this, to make suggestions, to become and love to be a part of the principle, part of the assembly that can be said to have improved the provisions and improved the Institute of the referendum with us today, which is what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120056	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120057	Thank you. Given all the troublesome points of our constitution, I think we should simply put on a new suit, this constitution would be a new suit, and you went with a proposal that represents a replacement of a sleeve. With some of the thesis related to the referendum I could agree, for example raising the quorum of those who have even gone to the referendum and voted for, but I just want to draw attention to how hypocritical we are in that part, or how much at the level of the daily political needs and pragmatism we change things. The only situation where you have to go to a referendum, so you talk here when you can, when you have to talk about association with other countries, international organisations, etc. When we went to the EU then we deliberately lowered these quorums because we were aware of the small turnout in the situation when a referendum must be held, and now in those situations where we could now raise it, isn't that a little contradictory, isn't that proof of the state's immaturity and unpreparedness to think permanently about something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120058	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120059	Thank you very much. I could agree with you that the constitution could change in a whole series of details, this procedure isn't even changing the sleeves but only one little button, but the consensus is a difficult fast to actually go into a wider scope, this is what we think is possible. As for these quorums you used to talk about, we used to have a quorum, we didn't have it, now we're reintroducing it because it wouldn't be right that the constitution could change really with some little turnout, organic law or so, so we're introducing a quorum of support that we think are okay, but they're going to be the subject of a conversation in this second and third step because the opinion is that it's too high-ranking, so we're open to talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120060	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120061	I thank President HS. Dear colleague, you said the aim was to improve the legislative framework when it comes to the referendum and that through these 30 years. There have been certain assumptions that this issue will be settled. This is just the first step, if it'll come to that we'll see more. What I wanted to ask you because here is often bad, very bad talk about the constitutional court, what do you think are professional people who can make decisions or are there people who sit around who don't know by whose dictatorship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120062	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120063	I have a positive opinion on the constitutional court, I think his decisions are good, thoughtful, they actually use the opinions of professional people outside the constitutional court to make their own decisions. As we see there, until before this called it out, and it wasn't like that, we now have and isolated opinions that arise, let them support the decision, let them actually dispute the decision, so that on this side I could list the whole series of decisions here that I think are very good and that they are very well explained that they are actually in fact very useful to us, and the way in which the Constitutional Court is elected by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120064	The next replica of my colleague, the Voter, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120065	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, the constitution changes once in 10, sometimes in 20 years. And what we need to do when it comes to this is respond with the Constitution to those key social challenges. When we look at the things that have happened in Poland and Hungary since recently and in America in terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms which one, which is the place to actually protect it, is the Constitution. And it's amazing to me that you don't recognize it, that through this constitution we need to protect and further strengthen certain human rights, and also make it impossible for them to reduce both human rights and fundamental freedoms. The point is when you say this is the first step, just opening the debate, making a decision to join a change of constitution, but what saddens me is your narrowness where you put things in a way, in these gauges that we've given and nothing beyond that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It makes me sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120066	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120067	Comrade Voter, this is in a formal sense our proposal, in this proposal we will indeed discuss further and we will see where we will come from. As far as the other questions are concerned, we said at the beginning of the story that as far as we're concerned, this is all that goes because this is what we expect to reach a consensus on. On these issues that you put on the agenda, we had a debate and we actually saw a quantity of disagreement and it is difficult for us to reach a consensus on this, and otherwise I think that the Constitutional Court has made a very decent decision in this matter. Let's just say her argument points to this balance of protection for the privacy of a woman, her integrity and the protection of an unborn child. So all these, all these arguments in the Constitutional Court's decision on the issue, I think they're well balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120068	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120069	Article 238 injured, I feel offended as a representative because my colleague Bosnjakovic thinks I'm not following enough of what's going on in America. So in America they thought for 50 years that what their Supreme Court brought was Enough, and it turns out it's not, that it would have been much easier if the constitution had defined the right to choose, not that the right to abortion had drawn from the right to privacy. [[Intruder: My colleagues voter know you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120070	...coworker Voter, you get, you get a warning, don't do it. Please, come on, my colleague Bosnjakovic, you're the vice president of the assembly, and I ask you to, you haven't been hurt, this was pure controversy and you've replicated and you've received a warning. Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120071	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, the Constitution does not change every day, does not change every year, does not change every term. So the right opportunity is that when we approach the amendments to the Constitution we approach them systematically, to try to bring in all the changes that will benefit and improve the development of this society in fact. You said in your presentation that you were ready to talk about everything, to say exactly, so this isn't a drawn book, we're ready and open to talk, and it's time to talk. Since you recently brought a new programme to the HDZ General Assembly, in which to paraphrasise it stands somehow to advocate a traditional family, but you respect all other forms of family, and you are also aware that the progressive opposition has also given its proposal to amend the Constitution my question is very decadent. Are you ready exactly what's in the HDZ program? And since the opposition came into these amendments to the Constitution? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120072	Comrade Ahmetovic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120073	We've defined ourselves, and we've announced that we put it on the table. Everything you put on the table you as a progressive opposition we'll analyze and see if we can meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120074	My colleague Ursha Raukar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120075	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, a very specific question. According to your proposal, how do you think a constitutional referendum could succeed if it is necessary for the proposal to vote 1.2 million people for, and it has to come out a million and 800, that's by calculation of percentages. And a million and 600 citizens and citizens of this country came out of the last parliamentary elections. So the figures are quite merciless, so in that sense I would say that it is a very clear conclusion that no constitutional referendum will actually be in reality possible, so I would ask you nicely if you could comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120076	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120077	Dear colleagues of Ursha Raukar Gamulin, I have just said several times that we have been very much talking about these figures in step two and three. I'm not sure if this math is about changing the Constitution that it's right for you, there's a fellow Bauk here I'll just consult him if it's possible theoretically, is it theoretically possible that only one, one third, and that they're all for, and then it's a little less than that million and 800, but we're saying it more in terms of theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120078	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120079	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bošnjaković, here about 2 months ago in this high house we discussed precisely the amendments and additions to the Law on Referendum, and then I would say almost unisonally all the MPs here pointed out the need to go and change both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law just to better regulate this legal area of the referendum. But here we hear today part of the opposition MPs are therefore opposed to opening the very proposal to discuss amendments to the Constitution and the constitutional law, saying that we are here something, that we are hiding something, although we have already known for months that because we have been talking about opening this topic, we are chasing a car in Zagreb to prevent something, but we have not heard any constructive proposal. Likewise, what we see is that part of the opposition deputies does not understand that the Constitutional Court is not a court in the sense of a judicial body. That the Constitutional Court can tell one of the four pillars of government in this country. It also raises the question of who, if not the Constitutional Court, should establish the constitutionality of a particular referendum initiative or referendum issue. Who is it if it isn't the Constitutional Court as one of the four pillars of power in this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120080	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120081	Thank you very much. I totally agree with you here, actually. The Constitutional Court takes an important place in our system. It is not an institution of the judicial authorities although very often it decides on the decisions of the judicial authority so that it has some indirect information, but it is not an unknown system that we have that we have the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court also decides on fundamental human rights violations, but that it also decides on referendum initiatives. This is not some special novelty of ours, but simply this is what I would say is one solution that cherishes a good part of democratic countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120082	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120083	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, some countries have specifically prescribed topics that must not be decided in the referendum. Which, in your opinion, issues that would not include food in those that can be decided at the referendum, and do not fall within the part-round assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the President of the Republic of Croatia, as defined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120084	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120085	Well, here's my esteemed colleague Maric, I personally favor you more for that one broad definition where the Constitutional Court, taking care of the values of the system, would decide whether or not it's in accordance with the Constitution, because if I am now, I have seen one initiative that said there is no referendum on finance, no defence issues, no foreign policy issues, no human rights issues, no question about the rights of national minorities, when I understood it, I have asked myself, wait for what the referendum is about. So on that side maybe we should point out some things but actually leave one, one greater possibility of discretionary assessment of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120086	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120087	Dear President, on behalf of Bosnjakovic, on behalf of this, I would like to say that I agree and share your views and views on the importance and roles of the Constitutional Court in the process or in the judicial system as such. Of course he does, there's obviously some kind of neglect here, and he could even say that all state institutions are being demeaned, here, and it's specifically the Constitutional Court. However, I would rather concentrate and try and hear your opinion to clarify on these referendum initiatives to amend this Constitutional Court Act which in some way not in some way but define the time course and handovers of the initiative commits the question that within certain deadlines there is both supply and collected signatures and all activities that I think is a significant step towards what the current situation is when these time-clear frameworks do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120088	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120089	Thank you very much. In fact, this whole initiative should be observed means from the aspect of the Constitution itself and from the aspect of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court but also from the law on the referendum that we had here. As you have seen, this law actually prescribes certain deadlines when these premises are closed where signatures are collected and sets a deadline within which it is necessary to submit them. We didn't have it now, and now we can only guess what was actually going on or not. There is a need for me to regulate as many questions and these technical issues as possible in order not to remain this doubt, but it is a matter of tomorrow's State Referendum Act because such technical provisions I don't think have room here. As far as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is concerned, he is very clear, he prescribes deadlines within which the Constitutional Court must make this decision, deadlines within which this assessment of the constitutionality of the issue can be submitted. That's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120090	Thank you. Comrade Jaksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120091	Thank you very much, President. By listening to your opening part, we agree with some things, some of us disagree, but it is all subject to discussion. But the key issue, given that we know that the Constitution does not change too often, if there is an initiative from the ruling majority, and there is also with those who have joined the way, why does not the ruling majority agree to a more comprehensive package of discussions on changes to the Constitution, and some of the things that we are asking for were also referred to by the Constitutional Court. From the definition of the right to abortion to the electoral units or the conduct of the elections themselves, and it is certain that the atmosphere of discussion and the demand for consensus on constitutional changes does not contribute to these unmistakable media pluts that go out on autumn and define the different role of President Zoran Milanovic in relation to the post of Supreme Commander, because I do not think anyone in this country would want Mario Banozic to become commander-in-chief. It's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120092	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120093	We simply live at such a political moment when we see that it is very difficult to reach consensus. We're very divided on all matters. One has one opinion, the other, the third, and actually those 2/3 are very difficult to collect. And I am therefore afraid that in many questions to open them now to make it difficult to get to that 2/3, and that is why we said that we only go with what we think will be a step forward, and where we expect actually support, and the referendum was exactly the same question when it was on the table of the referendum law, we were almost there to agree that there should be a change in the Constitution and that there should be a change in the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120094	And colleague Bauk's last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120095	Mr. Bosnjakovic, I am very interested in your answer to my next question. What's the problem with HDZ and the right to choose a woman? So your president publicly supports the right to choose. 24 years of HDZ authorities have not changed a law that recognises the right to vote. 6 out of 7 constitutional judges nominated by the HDZ by the Constitutional Court supports the right to vote. 2 out of 3 HDZ voters support this right. In the draft and proposal of the Constitution in 1990, it was the right thing to do, and even when it turned out nothing happened. None of your coalition partners are against it, and some of them support our proposals on the right to choose. And what's the problem? Where, there is no greater consensus in the country than to recognize the right to choose a woman. The only one with a consensus problem for completely unknown reasons because it doesn't make any sense is the HDZ Club. You can explain it to me, I'm trying to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120096	We will find it difficult to comply here, I consider this Constitutional Court decision regarding the assessment of the constitutionality of this law to be one of the better because it has given a very good explanation as I have already said regarding the preservation of the privacy of the woman, related to her integrity, and yet it is related to the protection of the child's rights. So I think it's a very good balance between those two rights that exist. It is clear that the law of the former state is still in place by the terminology of the organisation of joint work, dinars, and such things, but I essentially think that here was actually an explanation of good and what they said in the debate the other day in the Parliament, we said in principle that this question was actually properly regulated by this Law. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120097	Thank you, fellow Bosniak. We have come to an end, so I will now call on the government's representative, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic, to give an additional explanation as to how the government views these decision-making proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120098	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the HS to adopt a proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the president by 92 MPs in HS. The government supports the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution. The proposed constitutional changes bear in mind that the procedure for the adoption of the new Law on Referendum and that the legal area of the referendum will be fully applicable, both by law and constitutional amendments. Also, the proposed amendments to the Constitution will facilitate the launch of national initiatives while at the same time ensuring the legitimacy of the decision. In this connection, in particular, support is the reduction of the required number of voters who can request the calling of a state referendum from 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, from around 360 thousand to 250 thousand voters. The reduction in the number of signatures needed to call a referendum will significantly facilitate the use of the referendum as an instrument of direct democracy. On the other hand, we support the aim of the legislator to ensure legitimacy by introducing a quorum of decision, we believe that the proposed quorums are in art. 87 centuries 3 and art. 135th century 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is suitable for different subjects of decision. As regards the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Government also supports the proposal for accession to the amendments, given that the practice so far has shown the lack of the current arrangement of supervision over the constitutionality of the referendum, i.e. after the decision has been published to collect the necessary number of voter signatures to call the referendum. In addition to retaining this form of supervision, we support the introduction of constitutional supervision on constitutional authorisation of the referendum issue and before the start of the voter signing process, and in order to avoid unnecessary social tensions and division, as well as costs for the organisers of the referendum initiatives. The government recognises that the objective of these amendments to the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law is to make the referendum procedure more legally reliable and more certain. Here, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120099	You have several replicas, first in line, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120100	The tensions and divisions are avoided by respecting the will of the people, by calling a referendum and by facilitating referendum initiatives, not by what you say. I'm going to ask you something very specific, since Mr. Bosnjak has not answered a specific question twice. Given that the Government in the Law on the Referendum calls precisely for the Venice Commission and its recommendations, the Code of Good Practice, as you think of what you also recommend, the Venice Commission, firstly, to have no quorum, and secondly, more importantly, to declare at the citizens' referendum on constitutional amendments relating to the right to the referendum. Please give me a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120101	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120102	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Then I'll continue the sequence, and I'll answer the third question. As far as the recommendations of the Venice Commission are concerned, we have discussed this in the First Reading Act, and I believe that this broader debate on constitutional changes should include all aspects, so in one part and what you are talking about. The right, purpose and direction of these constitutional changes, i.e. more precisely, legally speaking, to launch an initiative for constitutional changes and draft constitutional changes, still has time in HS to discuss all the details you are talking about. If our goal is to settle the matter of a referendum that has not been well arranged so far, i.e. legal gaps in that part, we believe that there is time to explain, apply or discuss all the arguments, so there is no need for any tension, no hidden motives, we all calm down and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120103	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120104	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. So in the agenda of the Parliament is equally the Law on a referendum in the second reading. He stands there, I suppose, waiting to see, that we all see together what will happen to this constitution-related initiative, that is, the changes that should be in the Constitution. What's absolutely clear at this point is that at some point this law will have to be withdrawn and processed and processed in accordance, if it really happens, the Constitution will change. It seems to me that the debate on constitutional changes should also go on, and that should include once again the debate on the referendum law because it seems to me to be a unique package. That if we really want to do something about the referendum, that we have to do it as a single package, and as 101 hands are required regarding constitutional changes, then I think that, in that sense, the referendum law should also be laid down in a way to get a really large majority in the Parliament. So please show me about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120105	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120106	Thank you very much, Your Honor. From the history of work in HS, you remember the representatives of Lesar and the constitutional changes we launched in the mandate of the SDP government, this is the first step, there is another step, when discussing the draft and the third, when it takes 2/3 of MPs to make a real change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you, it's a unique sequence that we need to connect, finally if we want to settle the referendum issue in the Republic of Croatia. If you are, I have listened to the debate, and all the replicas to Mr. Bošnjakovic, so if the attitude towards the Constitutional Court after the elections is the blame of HDZ and SDP, it is the choice of HS that was given to the biggest parties by Croatian voters and citizens of the Republic, if, as a boxing bag, the Constitutional Court, how do you think we will create the legitimacy of any change when the body to be declared to be a political non-professional and political arrests. I don't think our future is bright about it if we spit on our own court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120107	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120108	Dear Secretary of State, about a month ago, I have two from the same community in Switzerland, sent me one photo and said, Marine, look at the referendum in Switzerland where people are wondering if a neighbor can lift two floors on their home and they have organised a referendum locally in the canton because it is not legally envisaged, but if the people will and if people have no problems they will allow it, well that's democracy for you. State Secretary reply to the Croatian people, please, do not bend and scribble exactly how many citizens have to go to the referendum to succeed, I am sure you know that number let the Croatian people hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120109	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120110	Thank you very much, President. This is as if you were asking the question of how much you have collected the signatures, so you kept it secret somewhere, in suspense, so we left room unfortunately with legal gaps to allow political prominence in the referendum law with clear knowledge that in the end this initiative will fall to the Constitutional Court because of the lack of constitutional law, so the money, the will of the citizens, manipulate the people on the signatures, and in the end you say here now the Constitutional Court is some unprofessional political body. It is true that we have put a certain number to be discussed. 1/3 and 1/4. And why did we make such a provision when we changed the Constitution? After 10 years of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, the HDZ did not bring constitutional changes, but then all MPs in the Croatian Parliament with 2/3 of the majority. So the number that should be reduced to less will be crystallized in the debate, but a little more respect for the first step. I think that would be wise for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120111	I thank the Secretary of State. This is what we've exhausted from the debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, first in line, honorary colleague Selak Rasdic on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120112	Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if you've had any doubts so far, you've received a key answer from the Secretary of State. Hey, it's gonna be okay. Hey, it's gonna be okay. I have to link this level of discussion and answer to the equivalent of where it would be. In literature, in film art, in music. No, this response reminded me of one ancient response from the Croatian muscle. When they asked her how she felt about showing up in bathing suits. She said it's okay. Here's the level where we talk here in the Croatian Parliament, and we know where it's okay. The title we wanted we didn't get. Well, that's how good it's gonna be with this proposal and the referendums in the future. First of all, let's take off the gloves. Let's just say the key to this initiative right now. What's the occasion? The occasion is our referendum on Covid certificates and on how to decide during the Covid crisis. It was a big surprise for the ruling because they had no idea that even in times of crisis there could be an incredible 400,000 signatures or that our people could be democratically, civilally activated. This surprise has served as a reminder to understand that urgent changes must be made in the system and even more limits to the right to referenda. What's the point? The aim is to prevent the fall when the real crisis comes on the agenda the possibility of engaged institutional channelling of civil rebellion or the will of the people through referendum initiatives. What are the short-term consequences of that? Street unrest, that if citizens do not have the opportunity to channel their will in an inter-election period through referendums, the only name left is the street. What are the long-term consequences? The long-term consequences are unequivocal. Practically disabling the referendum in the Republic of Croatia. Why are we against these suggestions? Above all, hypocrisy and inconsistency. If we respect the recommendations of the Venice Commission of 25.10.2018 and 8.10. In 2020, as you respect them for the referendum law, then let us be consistent and respect 2 key recommendations that are contrary to your bill. And that's that there's no quorum that's otherwise unacceptable with this low turnout because if this quorum that was proposed was respected, none of us would be sitting here because we wouldn't have democratic legitimacy. So we are looking for greater legitimacy to plead in a referendum that is more unusual for our citizens and by nature things have less turnout than in the democratic elections that take place in the four-year cycle. And secondly, a key recommendation from the Venice Commission, ask the people instead of political trade, ask the people in a referendum what they think about amending the Constitution relating to the right to the referendum. Now all of a sudden, the Venice Commission and its code of good practice became arbitral. We can, we don't have to, so it's not mandatory, but it's a key argument when we propose a referendum law. Second, why are we against it? The role of the Constitutional Court. Not only is the Constitutional Court given power because it comes to apriori before any initiative, before the signings are collected, but it enables the full authority of the Constitutional Court in the sense that it can react at any time, in a threefold sequence, before the initiative, during the initiative, and perhaps after the initiative when we talk about the issue itself. Furthermore, the various vague formulations in that key part of these legal changes that are less talked about, which is not the Constitution but the Constitutional Court Act which speak of the exclusive jurisdiction of the assembly, and no one knows exactly what is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the assembly, so we can assume that this will be interpreted by the Constitutional Court. Then they talk about a serious procedural error which may also be an argument for the abolition of a referendum issue that violates the constitutional identity of the Republic of Croatia, so you ask yourself what identity is and what is exactly a serious procedural error, and it is as possible even during the signing process. So, all this uncertainty in the formulations in practice will be manifested through the will or willful political decision of the Constitutional Court which we had previously been able to prove in practice when we were able to testify to the unseen so far, and that we have our constitutional question on our referendum initiative that is in accordance with the Constitution, but is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution because the Constitution in this dualism did not agree with itself. With such suggestions of this quorum and the roles of the Constitutional Court, it is extremely cynical for you to rub the eyes of the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public here by reducing the number of signatures. It's like someone told you you'd be locked up in jail, but they bought you tickets to the Bahamas. It's gonna have to collect less signatures just before you have to get out of prison that you can't get out of because you're sentenced to life sentence. With this role of the Constitutional Court, we will never get to the point where this required number of signatures will be collected. And in conclusion, I'm going to say something about this problem because we've approached this issue very seriously and constructively what we're proposing. So, we have opened dialogue on the round table because we believe that this issue is of broader public interest with representatives of unions who had previously had successful referendum initiatives in the sense that they manifested themselves within the law although the referendum did not allow them, with representatives of the profession, with representatives of NGOs and those who also had referendum initiatives. What do we suggest? Yes, reduce the number of signatures, extend the deadline to collect signatures, change the choice of constitutional judges, ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for a referendum on amendments to the Constitution in accordance with the Code of Good Practice, listen to practical suggestions about making it easier to collect signatures through the system of e-Citizens, writing data with the governmental signature of citizens on public surfaces and in private places so that it can be easier to obtain signatures and allow citizens to declare their will. And yes, let's do the quorum and limit the role of the Constitutional Court, because I'll just say it one more time. If we disable the only institutional channel of expression of civic will in the coming time of the crisis that comes to us, the only thing you leave for the citizens is the street, and who will answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120113	A fellow coat of arms, please, I'm sorry I haven't noticed yet will speak and colleague Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120114	At the end of the presentation on behalf of our club, it reminds us once again that in mature democracies, the referendum law serves to enable the referendum to be arranged, and with us obviously to disable it. You say this is long spoken of and prepared, etc., so why didn't you announce it in time for the agenda, but the day before, you get into the way you did it. We saw a very similar model on Friday, as it was in the agenda of the High School and Science Act and when, on Friday afternoon, far away from the eyes and the media and the public and the MPs leaving. With the indignity, we refused to invite HDZ to discuss what is before us today because how, after brutal referendum theft, to accept the invitation of whoever did it. Well, it'd be like if you were handcuffed, you were a feather, and the fox called you at a symposium where the fox discussed how better to protect the chickens. I am saddened that some geese have gone to the fog to continue this animal metaphor, several geese have strayed, I hope that this fog will clear up and see that they are committing political suicide rolling in this undemocratic mud along with HDZ. Two, three turkeys have also strayed and some ducks. And the only thing HDZ has achieved is one political victory because it has hardly compromised part of the opposition. It's the only result of this whole story. So even as we refused to participate in this kind of conversation with such an actor, we also reject this proposal with indignity. Don't rub your eyes on the Croatian public, you who were in opposition yesterday don't sell the story that you gave your signatures because you and the promoters are only here to discuss it because it was quite 77 or 76 signatures of the ruling ones. So, in the end, we, as a club, refuse this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120115	A colleague of Glamuzin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120116	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238, such insinuations are indeed extremely incorrect by someone who had to verify in the public notebook their lie that they would not co-ordinate with HDZ and helped them create two governments and then they would say that they had come out of that government because they had not yet come from the shock that Plenkovic had thrown them out of the windows. So that demagogue, the con man and my club are gonna tell me that we're doing something different. except transparent, consistent and principled. [[Intruder: colleagues of Glamuzina...]] He won't. He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120117	My colleagues, Glamuzina, understands your reaction, but it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because this was a replica, not a mistake in the procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Now it's on behalf of my colleague, the coat of arms, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120118	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it is fascinating that some of us sitting here in a assembly where one of the most important tasks should be to change the Constitution, it is fascinating that some of us do not know how this Constitution changes in the assembly. It's even devastating. The constitution changes rarely. In the assembly last time more than 10 years ago. And that is why this is an opportunity to try to reach a consensus, an agreement on what is now necessary and possible to change in this Constitution. This process is being initiated in a way that the Assembly decides to approach the amendments to the Constitution, after which we will conduct a long hopefully constructive debate on the Committee on the Constitution. Once the Constitutional Court has established the proposal, carry out consultations with the public concerned in accordance with the position of the Constitutional Court for a period of at least 30 days, then vote for the first time, then return everything to the Constitution Committee and only after such a majority and such agreement in the assembly has reached 2/3 of the Constitution. That's the way. And that's the path that'll wait for us in a few months ahead of us. That is why I am extremely sorry that the ruling majority today did not allow a second proposal to change the Constitution that has been submitted, but since we are talking today about whether or not we are going to initiate the amendment process of the Constitution then I have a lot of right to say why I believe this procedure should be initiated. And it needs to be launched to get an opportunity through this course that I was talking about trying to convince enough MPs that there is one right in Croatia that needs constitutional protection. And that's women's right to choose. It is the right of a woman to decide independently and freely about birth. It is a woman's right to decide independently and freely about her body, but it is also an obligation of the state to ensure assumptions for the exercise of that right. It's a human right. It's a civilization achievement. And that's important to us in the SDP, and that's what we're gonna stand for. But what is even more important is that it is important for citizens and citizens of this country who, not 2/3 of the majority necessary for the change of the Constitution, but rather support Croatia's institutionalisation and protection of this right and through the most important fundamental act of this country. Through an act that regulates a set of human rights that our society protects. The right of women to choose must be in that circle. And that is why we want to approach the process of amending the Constitution. That's why we want to talk about it. If we finally vote to change the constitution will depend exactly on what we have asked the ruling majority to answer. And that's if you're open, are you ready to talk? Today they said they were, but let me not believe in our society words just like that, we will do things. And the works will depend on how we ultimately end this process. Only works and only deeds. Whether the space for the protection of women's rights in Croatian society will be open is our condition and we want to talk about it. It's on the table and no matter what you didn't put it into discussion today, we'll talk about it, we'll insist on it. However, while sticking to the Rules of Procedure, I must speak at least a little in the part of this debate about what is the proposal of the ruling ones, which is a proposal that will ultimately lead to us opening this debate. It would be hypocritical of me to talk about that the proposal to regulate the referendum decision in the Croatian Constitution is unnecessary, and it would be hypocritical because the SDP proposed this 10 years ago, 5 years ago, which we said clearly both this and the previous year when we talked about the Law on Referendum, the amendment to the Law on Referendum without amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is not enough. In fact, it's as funny as it was funny that we, in this whole referendum procedure, have changed the will of the HDZ only by law which determines the financing of referendum activities without having arranged the referendum itself. That was funny, but that's how it works when the house is built from the roof, not the foundation. And today we've come to the point where we begin to edit the foundations. As I said 10 years ago, we initiated a change like this. Back then HDZ was against it and it was not possible, even five years ago, and then HDZ was against it. Today for reasons I will not enter, which they must explain today, they say this should be arranged. Come on, finally, it's in your head. However, the proposal you plan to arrange for is simply not good. The issue of a referendum decision in the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court rests on the 4th pillars. All those four pillars need to be fixed. One question is the number of signatures, we in the SDP think it should be reduced. Totally clear, cut the number of signatures, extend the time limit to collect. The questions that are allowed for a referendum decision, our Constitution says nothing about it. Through the practice of the Constitutional Court, a very uneven and very questionable one has created certain ideas of guidance that it can, which it cannot. With all due respect, no one knows what he can do, which he can't do in advance. That is why we believe, not in the way proposed by the HDZ, but in the way it has been regulated in the constitutions of a number of other countries that it should be clearly stated in advance that it cannot, among other things, be clear to all those who opt for referendum initiatives whether this initiative will pass or not. As suggested, yesterday we discussed this on the Committee on the Constitution, and this was spoken by the professors of constitutional law, who should be teaching students, who do not know what is allowed, and what is not, they do not know, too broadly set. And you're talking about us questioning the Constitutional Court, no. We question that the Assembly waives the right to be the one to decide what it can and can't, and it leaves it entirely to the Constitutional Court. It's the wrong way. We must clearly and in advance say what is allowed, which is not. The third pillar, prescribing the quorum, that the quorum must be prescribed. We had some suggestions in 2013 and 2018, but today we are open to these proposals, but the quorum must be. It cannot be allowed to be a theoretical situation in which one person will come out and support something enough to succeed the referendum. Especially when at a local level, and we need to talk about it, we have a 50% plus one decision-making quorum. Almost nowhere will a local referendum ever succeed because of that. And that's what we need to talk about. The quorum must exist, but it must be reasonable. It must be reasonable to allow a referendum decision but not to turn it into a travesty again. And lastly, and very much related to column number two of what is allowed and which is not the question of defining when and how the Constitutional Court decides. The current system is not good, it needs to be improved, but not this way. I think it would be right that the referendum initiative itself must initially collect a certain number of signatures that will allow it to go to the Constitutional Court. In this way, we will prevent the manipulations that are suggested here. But I also believe that there are other things we should do now, and this is an opportunity. One of them, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the Constitution define differently how constitutional judges are elected. One item in an article needs to be changed. Let's do it. So when we talk about the problem of the Constitutional Court's action, one of the biggest criticisms in the way the Constitutional Court works is a matter of the public's work and we can do it. Ensure that the Constitutional Court decides publicly and publicly. For the end, we in the SDP want to access the amendments to the Constitution [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But what they'll end up like will depend on us if we do. [[Thank you very much.]] in that third step and support. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120119	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Mrak Taritas, and a respected representative, Oreskovic, will speak. First honorary representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120120	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues, as you know we are Club of the Centre and GLAS, so on behalf of the GLAS, I will speak for myself, and on behalf of Mrs Dalia Oreshković, because our views regarding this first question at all, did they really get the conditions to initiate the Constitution or constitutional changes related to the referendum or do they differ? And that's why I think it's fair that we both say our views. We in the Voice when it comes to such important things take a stand starting with the next one. First we analyze the existing situation whether we are satisfied with the current state. If we are not satisfied, then we try to say or consider what our goal should be and how to reach our goal. We with the current situation when it is tied in a referendum the way the matter of the referendum is defined in our Constitution, constitutional law and laws is not good. We're doing three steps and we're discussing this first step today. Whether or not we have the conditions and whether we think the conditions have been met to raise the issue of change in the Constitution and then through a broad debate in which everyone will participate sees what needs to be changed. And we think there's a condition that needs to be done. And then, of course, in step two and step three on time, we're going to say our position. What I'm kind of sure is that we can all agree here more or less, and that we're not really satisfied with how the referendum was resolved because if we were satisfied with the referendum there would be more. If we were satisfied with that, it would be different. And we have to go back to 2010. In 2010, two-thirds of this same home made it easier to hold a referendum. For what reason? To facilitate Croatia's accession to the EU. And today, looking back, I'm sure that's how it was meant to be done then, but now is also the time for the matter of a referendum to be more careful, more careful, more systematic. You can't solve this with an axe, cut the Constitution, you can just say that when you put all the problems that are on the table, discuss the problems and see what and how further. It is clear that the lack of a provision on the required majority in relation to the number of voters can theoretically lead to a referendum being called, that a single man who can make a fateful decision comes upon him. Today, we colleagues and colleagues have such a solution. Let's all ask ourselves together, we're happy with them. Likewise, let us honestly say that due to the lack of regulation of the referendum in our legislation, the constitutional court has replaced this issue through its practice. And regardless of the frequent criticism that this Constitutional Court was exposed to, he played a significant role in some things. Filled in some legal blanks and cleared up some misunderstandings. However, a serious state if we really want it to be impossible and must not rely on the activation of the Constitutional Court as a substitute for the Constitution and the laws. Today we have the Activism of the Constitutional Court that changes the Constitution and the laws. And regardless of when this activation in some cases also plays a positive role. That is why we believe in the GLAS that it is necessary to open the process of amending the Constitution when it comes to the referendum. We don't have a dilemma. What I asked the promoters and said to me it would seem fair and correct that today was equally on the agenda and the point of amendments to the Constitution regarding women's right to choose. So it seems to me, and I'm sure, not only does it seem to me that it would be one step if we really wanted to have one country in which we regulate, in which we respect democracy, in which we respect and respect the rights of all others. But we're going to have to do it in the fall that and that topic comes up on the agenda and we're going to do it. And we in GLAS won't be hypocritical, so for one motion, the constitution regarding a referendum, let's say, vote or not vote, and about the abortion equally. We will vote, or I will vote on behalf of GLAS, for the launch of constitutional changes related to the referendum, and with great ferocity, great energy and great will and regarding women's right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120121	A respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120122	Thank you. The rules on the referendum should undoubtedly be improved, but the referendum is neither the main nor the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we had successful referendum initiatives that even changed the Constitution. We had those initiatives that managed to collect signatures, so HDZ managed to stop them with its engineering and reliable Constitutional Court. So that works for them, too. We also have those referendum initiatives like those for the monetization of highways that have achieved their political and social goal without having even come to the referendum. So, although these rules are not perfect we can say, of course they should be improved, we can say that the principle of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia works in contrast to many other areas tailored in our Constitution that simply seek serious, serious reform. First of all, let's start with that we don't have a credible list of voters, and we're talking about raising or lowering the threshold. Let's talk about the fact that we don't have the constitutional design of election units and that we need to take care of it. In the Constitution itself, the relationship between individual branches of state authorities does not work. The relationship between the president of the state and the government does not work in key issues of co-creation of foreign policy and management of secret services. A number of provisions of the Constitution are simply unarranged, practically in the daily political life of the dead, we have the authority, constitutional authority of the president of the state to propose a joint session with the government without the possibility of such authority ever being exercised because the government has no obligation to respect the will of a man with the highest original political legitimacy in the Republic of Croatia. And nothing to anyone. If two branches of the executive government, the president of the state and the government disagree on those issues where they should cooperate, there is no way of institutional control. This means that in fact, our model is wrongly set in those key, key concepts that define the existence of a state. And I repeat, the main problem is still not a referendum and referendum issues, but corruption, the judiciary. If we want to change the Constitution I suggested it several times publicly, let's change it as suggested by GRECO back in 2014 in its fourth evaluation round. Therefore, the international organisation of the Council of Europe which is specifically monitoring this area. If we want to strengthen the position and independence of the attorney general, it would be advisable to extend his term from 4 to 6 or 8, but without the possibility of re-election and re-election. All of these are questions that would have asked us as a single race, as the 10th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament reached one and a political one, and would have said civilizational, social however you want moral, cultural maturity to talk openly about the main problems of our country and to reach some consensus together in one dialogue, in one respect of experts. And that we, like this generation, say that the present and future of our inhabitants will look like, rather than agree to that amount of democracy that has been re-coordinated exclusively by HDZ rules. In fact, the promoters of the Constitution are the fathers of a nation, the founders of a country's state legal order, and at the time when independent state created political creators were Tudjman, Sheks, HDZ structures but then they had the help of the then intellectual and legal elite. Today, our constitutional experts have shown themselves about what they think of this HDZ referendum initiative, but none of them presented themselves as the author. This is simply a continuation of the idea of a political party who has been building a state for 30 years, for 30 years systematically robbing it, is also legally convicted of corruption and as such a political party does not have the legitimacy of the direction of the future Croatian Constitution, and especially when only one who wants to achieve some of its trivial political points from the whole palette of problems, That's why I'm against it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120123	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120124	Dear Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the referendum has largely become more important in recent years than the issues of the Constitution itself and constitutional provisions and its implementation. It has become one of the central issues of political life and political competition that is actually taking place in the world-wide perspective, and much less in the perspective of rights, interests and what we might call a rational political decision by any citizens or people, whether we are representatives and representatives of the people, but there are such periods in every country's political life, so it exists with us as well. I find it extremely important that we get out of this as rationally as possible and not fall into some kind of populist fungi or some kind of limiting people's rights to a referendum to protect those who rule in the name of the people and who can alienate themselves from the people. In this sense, seeking a solution to disputes concerning the conditions of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the Law on a referendum is probably the most important issue and the most important issue that is raised before us as representatives and according to political life, representatives of political parties competing for citizens' trust. This rationality and demand for measures in this rationality, I believe, is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and I, most important in this business. That's usually the case when it's right, and it's probably the same when it comes to any decision being made in the interest of the common good or any good if it's not just because of our private well-being. So, the solution so far that we have had the circumstances that have already been highlighted in the speeches of previous colleagues and colleagues that about the referendum, the decision that the referendum is valid de facto can be made by one voter or one citizen or one citizen is certainly something that needs to be changed and that change has been introduced here. That change has several degrees. When, in addition to what is defined by the Constitution and where there have been public referendums, there has been a college referendum and, in this respect, the SDSS Representatives' Club considers that the decision-making of 1/3 of all voters is a proportionate and rational framework or a rational level of decision-making for things in which, when compared to what is voted on by 2/3 of the majority or what is defined by organic laws in the assembly itself. When other matter is determined by a quarter of the total number of voters, we also consider it rational and proportionate. When it comes to association with other countries, especially those who become or become members of the state union to which we belong, which is the EU, there is a threshold raised to 50% or over 50% of the electoral authorities, and there is someone yesterday who seems to have drawn attention to the possibility of opening individual disputes between the moods of our electoral body in the given political circumstances and those who are candidates or candidates' potentials, for example. for EU membership. The SDSS Representatives' Club also considers it especially when due to the situation of relations between countries in the former Yugoslavia and the Western Balkans, there is a risk that the referendum could be a means for mutually continued political conflict. And I'm going to say so much at this stage of the debate about it and that we should consider how to avoid such things if possible. As regards the reduction of the number of signatures, which was a frequent complaint, particularly the representatives of the people's initiatives, there is noted that from a mere 10 % of the signatures that were to be collected, this number was also reduced to 250,000, which is also seen as rational and proportionate to what the legislator in this case defined as a necessary number in order not to reach some kind of suppression or some kind of inflation or some kind of inflational use of referendum initiatives. As regards the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the part in which it is mentioned which issues could not be called for by reference initiatives, and that the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court gives a preliminary opinion, before it starts to pursue a referendum initiative and collect signatures whether such an initiative is in accordance with the Constitution, we also believe that this is a good position regardless of what would probably be better if such provisions were laid down in the constitution, especially in the light of the provisions of the constitutions concerning fundamental rights and freedoms and the provisions of the constitution which define fundamental human rights, fundamental minority rights, fundamental rights of different social groups in the country, and I would also add those issues that can cause serious world-wide conflicts in society and which can serve only the destabilising of political life in the country, and in no way help to resolve such issues through political and political dialogue. As far as the issues of clarity of certain provisions are concerned, and in the proposal to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, I have an understanding of the position of those who think that we should make these provisions clearer during the next debate, simply so that the Constitutional Court does not suffer unnecessary doubts that it will arbitration in matters in which it should not be arbitration, although neither I nor my club belong to those MPs and representatives in this assembly who believe that the Constitutional Court is a political place and that it is a priority and that it is a place where we cannot be trusted in advance. It may be some kind of our party political attitudes, it may be some kind of our way of understanding the decisions of the Constitutional Court and I have often been in a situation that I was invited to think in such a direction, but I don't think that this kind of approach creates a legal culture or a culture of institutional order in the country, especially if it's not created if the labels are shared... that these are political people, that this should be abolished and that this is not the place to decide on anything because there are people's geniuses who will decide on behalf of the people and create public change and public will, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120125	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120126	Dear chairman, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Here we have already expressed our public views on these accelerated, sudden and truly extraordinary initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, primarily representatives of clubs, especially colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, but all others on the draft amendments to the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so I will just remind myself briefly. So, we inherit our Christmas constitution from the '90s, the highest values and testify that our constituents made it clear about this, that the dawn of democracy in Croatia came from the people, that it belonged to the people, and that we set ourselves there for representative democracy, but left as it was written then, the possibility that the people would make their own decisions, directly decide. However, due to the extraordinary war circumstances, I suppose this is the main reason, it took many years to come in 2000. One left liberal government and, in this legislative body, to initiate this process of amending the constitution and operating and implementing the provisions with the introduction of the National Initiative Institute and, therefore, in spite of all the huge, huge criticisms which I often refer to many of the government's actions, we certainly express, we express one extremely, extremely great commendation for this, for this step and thanks to these constitutional changes, the people could indeed in practice have had a great impact on political life in the Republic, so the people in this forest, in these regulations, but also in a certain legal vacuum of legislation, along with the interventions of the state bodies and have indeed had a great impact on the political life of the Republic, so that the people in this forest, in fact, in this particular, in this law, the law of the institutions of the state and the law of the Republic, had been the right to change the law of the right and the right to the right of the people, that the right of the people, and the right to the right to the right to the right of the right of the law, and the right of the law, the right of the law, and the right of the people, the law, the law, the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law, and the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the I'm not talking about mandatory referendums right now, but that college guy was. We even had this successful constitutional referendum on marriage, and when we look at today's perspective, it's not good to start with a restrictive desire and a provision to completely stifle the people's initiative by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by amending the Constitutional Court Act, and we do not forget in parallel in the 3rd month we had on the table and we still have a government proposal to amend the Law on Referral. In fact, when we study all this together in synergy and analyze it then we come to the conclusion that the main goal of the rulings is unfortunately with one number, amazing for me, is not to me, but to me it's amazing, with a number of our colleagues and colleagues who have objected to this proposal as I realized today that some of them have actually made this proposal open, which I think is okay, so we're opening that debate. This proposal is fundamentally incompatible with the general principles of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and with the provisions themselves, because it cannot be interpreted at all rationally as why, for example, against the people and the free and equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have decided to go out in an articulated legal procedure in front of the Croatian public, an organisational committee controlled by the State Election Commission, to which certain bodies even the Assembly, this assembly, according to the proposal of this referendum, gives its position, even the President of the Republic will give its views, even the Prime Minister formalisedly give its views, which we will publish in the National Journal and has a whole series of mechanisms of control whether this initiative is in accordance with the Constitution or not, we are now putting a decision on the preliminary assessment of the constitutionality of these issues of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and with the completely flat, unclear interpretation of the principles of the rules of law and the rules against the rules of law. So it's all one such fluid, one phrase, which can significantly disable any will, any desire at the beginning of the Croatian people to say the opposite point of view of ruling policies. And that, in my view, is the main objective of closing these initiatives, that these initiatives, that the provision, by chance, applied to the Constitutional Court's preliminary assessment of constitutionality, so I am absolutely sure that they could never change the Constitution in part of what the people decide regarding the Constitution, constitutional change that marriage is a community of women and men. Many of this would not have been achieved by trade union initiatives and out-of-courting, Labour, Pension Law, many things would not have been the case with regard to other initiatives of this one, and therefore we are as a Club of Croatian Sovereigns of the position that we must not support and appeal to both colleagues and colleagues not to support it because it has not been specifically completed, it is not explicit and it can as such be socially dangerous for democracy in the Republic of Croatia. It is in itself incomprehensible that you are the Croatian Parliament in fact there... which has regard to the supervision of the entire system in part as provided for by our Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the majority of the transfer and despite the opposition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitutional Court, let's not forget he himself said he didn't want to talk about it, if he had to, he'd actually be extremely clear about these referendum initiatives and issues, but this ex post when they were already collected, and he didn't want to get into the state of the referendum decision process before the initiative was launched at all. Therefore, we believe that it is not good, and the quotas themselves should also be updated because we, in fact, have brought down the quorum, the quorum of that decision, and at first glance looks pretty good from 300,000 to 250,000, but on the other hand we have extended the deadline, but let's not forget by the referendum law, we now have the possibility that the referendum activity extends for 40 days, up to 45 days, with the fact that up to 30 days it is possible to collect signatures, and only 10 to 15 days to count lists actually prepare all of these to be referred to the Croatian Assembly. On the other hand, the State Election Commission has decided for 30 days that it has the right to count. So we can say thank you, we are moved by state secretaries as you say you have started the changes to protect democratic life in Croatia In order to reduce tension [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and especially because of the impact on our financial situation as an organisational committee. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120127	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Emil Daus will now speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, it has been said more than once today that the constitution is a fundamental legal act of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is also a change of it that requires a broader debate, perhaps some compromise and, of course, a consensus as much as possible when adopting its amendments, and especially in a situation with such a ratio of political forces in parliament, in the assembly. The constitution also does not change every month, not every year, and therefore the proposals for its changes should be approached with extreme responsibility. The IDS is the view that this amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be discussed in HS and that the issue of implementation of the referendum should be addressed and we will vote on Friday to support the proposal in the parliamentary procedure. Such acts as the constitution, such as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, should always be discussed, discussed, negotiated, and voted there in the third step on this, but discussed. But the questions I ask myself are as follows, does everyone really want to settle the constitution, if they really want to settle the referendum issue or whether they want to politicise and use these two questions for some political points, which is legitimate, but again I ask for responsibility and for the sake of a basic act of the Republic. My colleagues and colleagues did not come to parliament to deal with statistics but rather with politics, and I think it is noticeable, not only to demagogue, but to try to do as much as possible for society, for the country, for the region from which I come from, and therefore I tried to send a message by putting my signature on the proposal for accession of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, not because it was important, because it was important, because the ruling had enough hands but to send a message that such a proposal should be discussed and that it was necessary to discuss it, perhaps it was not politically wise, but I did it, but not that I would certainly vote for, of course, to change the constitution, we are far from repeating it. But perhaps a little naive, perhaps I wanted to provoke, I expected a similar or at least somewhat similar message from the other side, and here I mean, of course, the proposal of the liberal parties and the left parties to put in the parliamentary procedure changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which aim to ensure women's right to be elected, and no one of course expects it to be accepted in the first step, and yet we're all different, we're all looking at a lot of things around us, that is, the essence of democracy, but I expected to allow debate in the assembly, and it would be ideally like some colleagues and colleagues said that it was going parallel, if both proposals had gone, then it would be really fair and we would fight with arguments, okay, someone would try otherwise, it's legitimate, someone using more populist rhetoric, someone's dealing with content, but they'd fight with arguments. But at yesterday's session of the joint two parliamentary committees that decide on this proposal has not passed and the message has been sent to me guilty, and that is the difference between those who support the debate and those who do not, of course there are other ways that this proposal can be done but I believe that it will be done, I mean the opposition proposal, but yesterday it was an opportunity to do it more elegantly, so I would say more correctly, but unfortunately that opportunity has failed. And I would take another chance, I may have talked about it twice here, once asked the prime minister a question at the current morning, when it comes to changing the constitution to point out that the provisions of the existing text of the constitution are not sufficiently implemented, and I don't mean only guaranteed rights of minority and endangered groups in society, as well as violated achieved civilization values, but also provisions relating to the rights of local and regional self-government. To us as regional strangers, this means, maybe a little bit more, we were eventually one of the ones in the government that was in that 20 years ago. And, and brought in and the name was then a compromise of the area and regional, he didn't mind just staying regional self-government, that's what my colleague Bauk remembered yesterday, so that after 20 years. We are finally starting to implement constitutional provisions, and that regional and local self-government becomes what we should actually be, and that is self-government in the full sense of that word, and the precondition of that is, of course, a decentralised state, and the result is a decentralised state, here is thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120129	In the name of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the honourable representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120130	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here we have come to this moment to open the debate here in Parliament on the proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the constitutional law and on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. This is not how the people would say the topic that fell from the sky and we didn't know it was going to happen, it's the topic that we're all discussing backwards for some time here in HS about whether it is necessary to change the Croatian constitution on a better definition of the theme of the referendum. And yes, that is why I will remind myself of the fact that all of us together when we discussed here the new Law on Referendum actually said some of the thesis that seems to me to be unique to all of us, which is that the amendment of the Law on Referendum is not enough, that it will in some way remain a dead letter on paper unless it is followed by changes to the Constitution, but also amendments to the Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court. And at that very moment, it seemed to me to us at the Social Democrats Club positively that someone heard what the parliamentarians here were saying about this speaker and what they were saying, it seemed to me that we had come to a phase in which we could open a political dialogue. Political dialogue right where it must be held in the Croatian parliament. The place where we were elected by Croatian citizens. And here we have an obligation to represent all of them. And those who have one ideological preference and those who have another ideological preference. We here must be you to hear the voice of everyone. And that is why we from the Social Democrats Club have given signatures and supported and strengthened this initiative by wanting to open a debate on amendments to the Constitution on the matter of referendums in the Croatian Parliament, which will be attended by all MPs and MPs, where we will not negotiate at bilateral meetings any circumstances of amendments to the Constitution right here, in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament or on the relevant Committee on the Constitution. Also, we at the Social Democrats Club had no dilemmas even at the time that colleague Katarina Peovic came out with a proposal that the right to free decision on women's birth should be defined in the Constitution. We also supported the opening of the debate on this initiative, but we also made it perfectly clear and decidently said, we are not the ones who are going to trade with one or another initiative. And we said that consistently with what we've been up against all of our political lives. We remain consistent with exactly what we have suggested in previous years that changes should be made in the Constitution. We remained consistent with the idea that a woman in the Republic of Croatia should have the right to choose, we never had a dispute. And we said what the elements are that the right should be realized. And we said that at this point in time for the non-fulfilment of that right, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible because there are laws in the Republic of Croatia that allow this right but are not enforceable. And we called, just as we called the government of the Republic of Croatia to act according to that plan. Why am I saying this now? Because today it would be very correct for all of us to find ourselves together on the issue that the amendments to the Constitution are like the highest document of this country that has a short but difficult history, place and time to talk in the Croatian Parliament. To talk by the rules, according to the predetermined rules. To define how the Constitution can be changed and to define how a referendum can be implemented because it is extremely important for us to make direct decisions in a democracy where power comes from the people. And not some body at some point according to its ideology to decide whether this people are right or wrong. The last one must be the one the people said. For us, there is no dilemma, whether we like it or not. And that's the situation we've had, and we're consistent with that example. And I won't doubt, this proposal that we sat down with the ruling majority and talked to colleagues and colleagues from the opposition is entirely on the trail of what our former party proposed in 2018. And we don't run away from it. And yes, and yesterday we said publicly, this is the beginning, but for us it's not enough. In 30 years, Croatia has created a state and achieved all its national goals, those of foreign and domestic policies. We will end this story with, say, entering Schengen, entering the euro zone and some other issues, but did Croatia strengthen society during that period, whether it built it the way citizens deserve it, how they should. These are issues that we believe should be opened by a large, broad debate, but not only here with representatives of parliamentary parties but with the entire academic community in the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, we made that clear yesterday and I'm gonna do it again here today. We believe that the moment is to open a large round national table that will now outline the new strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia which will be the basis for a comprehensive amendment of the Constitution. This comprehensive amendment to the Constitution should provide answers to all these questions that you colleagues and colleagues have opened here today, and we have today had questions not only of women's right to free birth decisions, not just of the referendum. We had a question of territorial structure here, we had a matter of national security and all those issues that actually stem from the Constitution. And yes, the answer to these questions should be given by the Croatian Parliament. And yes, we cannot delegate to other institutions to decide what the referendum may or may not be discussed. And yes, this is the first step in which we are ready to enter into a debate in step two and in step three we are ready to say about each individual issue our detailed position and try to jointly repeat through dialogue to reach consensus and the best solution for our citizens. And yes, what we have now given 10 signatures and what we are ready to discuss today on this subject does not mean that our votes will be among 101 votes and 2/3 of the majority necessary for the final amendments to the law. This isn't Bianca's signatures, this isn't unreserved support, this is just accessing and opening a conversation on topics we've talked about before that needs to be changed. And yes, we agree with everything the colleagues in the opposition have said, that the quorum of decision-making may be too high, we have new censuses, we have new circumstances in Croatia, but this quorum of decision-making is far easier than the one we proposed together 5 years ago. or 4, that we are ready to talk about that quorum still coming down, that we are ready to talk about the number of about a million voters who should be the number for making changes that come from the constitution, that these are all topics that we need to come to a consensus and I repeat, as many have said, we open the debate, we stand firmly behind these signatures, that does not mean that we are all thinking alike in the club and that we will not have different discussions, but that means that Parliament is the place of dialogue and that it must be, and that we will finally see whether we will support the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120131	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120132	Good afternoon, everyone. France's ruling majority in its parliament these days begins with the process of introducing the right to abortion into the French constitution. We had the right to abortion entered into our constitution in 1974, every man's right to free decision on the birth of children and that right from that constitution disappeared. This right here we asked for 40 MPs and a representative to return to the Croatian Constitution and to have the abortion become a constitutional category again, which HDZ refused. The HDZ now has, it is going to change the constitution in the referendum segment, refuses the proposal of abortion, to return the right of abortion to the constitution, but they say they are ready for all negotiations and all talks, are not, nor open to any negotiations, nor to any talks, and this shows not only that they were not ready to be included in their proposal for constitutional amendments to our proposal, so that, as they said, some have only signed to discuss here why we could not discuss this, but not only that, but watch out for the same category of sufficient numbers of MPs and MPs who have tabled the amendment of the constitution and HDZ with our initiative, but HDZ's proposal has entered the agenda today, and ours are not. So much for openness to negotiations, conversations and all kinds of suggestions, there's nothing to it. So, one more thing, why isn't it there? Well, because two of the three HDZ voters agree with us, it's not something HDZ wants to talk about, it's something HDZ wants to put under the carpet, and that's why we're going to go to the fall and with our initiative in the assembly, if it has to be with a referendum initiative where we will welcome HDZ voters who will sign our referendum issue. But HDZ and these changes and changes are trying to make our referendum difficult, so I'm going to talk about it now, and our initiative at the third item of the agenda today. The HDZ initiative goes against the People's Referendum although there are some things we can agree on or try to make it difficult and I will try to analyse the HDZ proposal on our example. So HDZ's changes are only good in one segment, which is a segment of reducing the number of signatures from 10% registered voters to 250 thousand, so a little less than 400 thousand should now, so it's now down by nearly 150 thousand signatures, that's good and it's a good extension of the deadline for signing, the referendum will be able to sign 40 days instead of 15 days, there's an estimated that more or less any referendum initiative can collect a sufficient number of signatures and there's no fear here and it's missed as some form of greater democracy because you watch everything here that we see as examples and suggestions we have to look at from the aspect of greater democracy, this is greater democracy, is it. The quorum for the referendum is not necessarily bad, the referendum should represent the will of the majority, not the tyranny of a minority who, with the help of the church and other institutions, can impose his agendas, but the quorum cannot be unrealistic, is it? According to the HDZ proposal, the referendum goes through if 1/3 of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia support a referendum issue to change the constitution and the organic laws, I will start here from the end, and it is impeccable that 50% of eligible voters are required for association and disunity in the supranational community. If there is a larger hypocrisy, the constitution has changed to join the EU only to allow the number of voters to join the EU, means most of the voters left, could have been 3, so that 2 would have joined the EU, a million 960 thousand voters went out, a million 298 and a few thousand voters voted for the EU, which means about 1/3 of the voters enrolled, should now be more than 50% registered voters. Should we now repeal the referendum on EU accession, while HDZ will not, but you know what we are going to do, we will change the referendum rules on how this suits HDZ. If we came into the EU with a let's say somewhere 1/3 of the voters who voted, the minimum honesty would be to keep it that way or this is who from Hotel California songs from Eagles "You can check-out any time you like, but you can never leave" In the autumn comes recession, comes inflation, we enter the Eurozone, we lose the final lever of the possibility of autonomous monetary policies. There is no impossible Greek scenario where we know how difficult Greece will deal with its recession at the moment means losing those levers, and HDZ wants to ensure itself. By the way, before entering the euro zone, Slovenia was called a transition tiger, when it entered the euro zone it actually stagnated. The austerity measures, which means lower wages, lower real purchasing power, higher unemployment all waiting for us in the fall, HDZ wants to make sure that any changes in favour of themselves and its chieftains who look at the EU and some of their benefits are quite private. Namely, I will say another thing in the Constitution is a homophobic definition of family as a community of men and women with less than 750,000 voters, and it would be enough if 3 voters had come out and if 2 had voted for the issue, the Constitution would have changed. Now, the HDZ demands that in a referendum of progressive opposition to the fall to restore the right of abortion in the Constitution, the rights that are hard to vote, for decades it has been in our Constitution, it has been fought by women, it is now raising quotas. The HDZ now argues that 1/3 of the voters enrolled need to vote in favour of the referendum, beware that the vote on a referendum issue that changes the Constitution, that's over a million and 290 thousand, 290 thousand voters, I apologize if any other figure, I've come up with that figure means approximately, but that's the same question we need to discuss. So it's not clear exactly how many voters it takes, and that's really the serious problem. But it is clear that they want to make the referendum initiative difficult to restore the right to abortion in the Constitution. They will not succeed, and their voters will vote for our question and will support it and their voters. But what would be a minimum of honesty right now is to say that those quotas are coming down. In any case, no more than 25% for merger and disunity, for the law certainly not one quarter of the voters enrolled, for constitutional changes certainly not 1/3. With regard to limiting what the referendum can be called on, I understand those who are in the opposition and have themselves asked for such a thing that they cannot be against it now, but still need to be critical that the referendum issue is limited to Articles 1 and 3. Of course, these articles also contain good things, freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, respect for nature and the environment, rule of law, democratic multiparty system etc., but this is so generally written that practically every referendum initiative can be banned. We here give the carte blanche to really limit and ban any referendum initiative not to say that the question of respect or inviolability of ownership in this article can also be questionable. The Workers' Front would ask this question, of course, and most democratic ones need to agree on what we think, by recession and inflation and by the loss of any leverage of monetary, autonomous policy, will increasingly be present as a question in our society whether Paladin should keep everything that has been obtained legally because the integrity of ownership is entered into our Constitution. The constitutionality check only for the end, means the constitutionality check before the signatures are collected under their proposal may be requested by 15 MPs, president, prime minister or parliament, but also after the signatures have been collected. And there's really room for manipulation to actually see if this initiative is going to collect signatures or not, so if it does, then we're going to go shut it down. I don't think we have a solution here, but that's where things should be resolved, perhaps in a more precise way, and not that at any point the issue of constitutionality can be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120133	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, so here as I was saying in the opening of the call for proposals, this proposal is not only a proposal from the HDZ, but all of the 92 MPs from this high house have joined this proposal, therefore the initiative and, as has already been said many times, this is the first step that goes towards further changes. I think it's a very good consensus that indicates that this move, or initiative, is more than justifiable. Unfortunately, it is fascinating, and I, as a man in practice, that the debate which was held on board yesterday from today's replica, or the debate which was on the applicant's opening statement, was given me to read the fact that it was not trusted to state institutions, and in particular to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is the body which is the most and the fourth-degree part, the classical constitutional court to be tried, but the body that outlines one of these outlines the situation and, in some way, the correctness of all those other bodies that can be read. This only confirms the composition of the Constitutional Court itself, in which not only lawyers but also others, representatives of other professions and political and other social life. As the referendum is known as such is a form of direct public statement on certain issues of particular importance to the narrow or wider community. From this, it is concluded and mentioned as if there were no referendum initiatives and held referendums in the Republic of Croatia, which is simply not true because several referendums were held, but from different types, some were at national level, some were at local level with different outcomes, and the initiative of both referendums and folk initiatives was much more, so the argument that the referendum is not correct in Croatia or is not supported by anything because the very fact that there is such a number of such initiatives as the referendums and those held points to a completely different problem. I have to take a moment, of course I'd like to look back on behalf of the club, or the way this initiative happened. As I said earlier, this is one of the first steps in the amendments to the constitution or amendments to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law and this initiative did not come to the relevant parliamentary committee simply because it suddenly occurred to either the ruling or someone, but it is simply the fruit of one long-term communication and coordination of work here with other clubs and, as the promoter himself said, and therefore it is possible to read and put forward the position of the HDZ Club which initiated this referendum that there is good will and strength and desire that all constructive proposals which are, will be addressed to this further procedure that praises are valuable, that they are welcome and that they will be properly and verified or included in the proposed text of amendments to the Constitution or amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law. It is clear to me, or to the HDZ Club, that the proposed amendments to the constitution itself are quite clear because of those pains that have occurred since the identification of the required number of voters, which can only be requested to call the state referendum, and to the necessary majority to decide on a referendum, i.e. So-called the already mentioned quorum of decision-making. He was proposed within what he is now, and I think it depicts the real state and possibility of what would be the will of the citizens. So these meals that go with some way that they're too high or too far and there are comparisons with some election results, I think that's where they want to mix pears and apples and two completely different legal terms and areas to be classified in the same direction. I would also like to refer on behalf of the club to this part, which is also mentioned by the Venice Commission, that the Venice Commission as such issued recommendations, they are recommendations, they are not in their power any legal act that should be included as such in anyone's legal system, I think it is quite clear to all, but I would like to warn that here in some way, not some but only a provision of 7a is mentioned. and, these rules of the Venice Commission and therefore, some conclusions are read, and that provision is not mentioned in paragraph 7.b. which then follows and which is clear and unequivocal... It also recommends that the referendum issues include what quorum of statements and how a quorum of exit is needed and most votes are needed in order for the referendum on which the declaration is valid, and therefore such ones are simply not, and I think that, for the sake of that matter, it would be necessary for the full provision of that article from the Venice Commission, namely 7.a. and 7b. to mention one and the other, rather than partially to represent only one part that applies and which is accepted as such and perhaps in some way modified corresponds to a political purpose. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, I think that with the sequence of all this we've heard and what was the amount... Our representatives, the HDZ Club, thinks that these proposed amendments to the constitution, as well as amendments to the Constitutional Law, will improve this legal area of the referendum, and will facilitate the maintenance of both mandatory and optional referendums, and I also think that the launch of the National Initiatives will, while at the same time ensuring the legitimacy of the decision, be improved, and I think that the amendments and additions will also ensure the constitutionality of the implementation of the referendum area itself, because this will ensure and any unequivocal situations will still be dealt with by the Constitutional Court as much as it wants to be diminished and put aside, I think that this is the only body that can be credible and in a proportionate way to implement constitutional all provisions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I also think that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, the Constitutional Law, will be achieved and further strengthened by the democratic standard of society, ensuring transparency and openness of the procedure for the implementation of the referendums themselves, and will in a more consistent and direct way strengthen and more effective influence of citizens in the decision-making process itself, political decision-making and will be seen clearly and their interest and input to each decision-making. Therefore, the HDZ Club, which is clear to you all, will support the proposed draft amendments to the Constitution and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120135	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120136	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have talked here several times about the importance of referendum initiatives and opportunities actually for citizens to participate in decision-making, especially when the legislator is making an appointment. Our position has always been that the most liberal regime of the referendum must exist at local level because it decides exactly where the issues closest to the citizens are, that, of course, the legislative referendum must exist, and it is the constitutional referendum that we really agree and we feel that we should also have a certain quorum of decision-making, and I will explain why and why we feel that the constitution should be opened and that the referendum matter should be regulated and that the number of signatures needed to launch the National Initiative should be reduced, however, why we will categorically be against the proposal that HDZ made and suggested to us because I am telling you that if this proposal was adopted we could never again have a single successful constitutional referendum initiative, never, and perhaps once in 10 years. could have had a somewhat successful legislative referendum initiative, and now why is that? I will begin first with the powers of the Constitutional Court or by amending the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. These amendments shall give authority to the Constitutional Court of First Instance of the Constitutionality of the issue at two levels, at the request of 15 representatives or the request of the Government, the President or, at his own discretion, the Constitutional Court may, within its general supervisory authority, initiate a preliminary assessment of the constitutionality of the issue itself. When we talk about a previous assessment of the constitutionality of the issue, we must say that it is not an advisory nature, it is not designed as a process of agreeing and improving issues, but as a process in which the issue can be rejected and the referendum initiative stopped. And why it is important that there is a referendum initiative with a particular question, and even if the issue was eventually declared not to be in line with the constitution. Because the referendum initiative opens a public debate on a matter by asking a question and this public debate on a matter may be the most important, richest part of the democratic process. We're asking a question on the table, experts are involved, citizens are involved, and we're discussing a matter. Two referendum initiatives that did not end in a referendum at all, which were extremely successful in their intention, such as "We do not give our highway" and the referendum initiative "67 is too much", would be possible for these provisions to be stopped at the very beginning, the public debate would not be opened, the signatures would not be collected and the government would not withdraw from 600 plus thousands of signatures that were collected and where the government then only decided not to go to the referendum but to withdraw, we withdraw the bill in either case. And so we stopped monetizing or privatizing to be a real highway, but we also made sure that, at 65. Croatia retires and protects some basic labour rights, so on its own, by launching the initiative. Stopping by the constitutional court of the initiative at the very beginning would prevent this kind of public debate and that pressure on the government and on most in the assembly. What else is the authority of the constitutional court, how is it defined in this proposal? It was defined in a way to say that the constitutional court can, on two grounds, assess the referendum question whether it is in accordance with the constitution. First, whether it is in accordance with the basic provisions of the Constitution or Article. 1st and 1st Article. 3., secondly, whether the issue in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament, government or president of the Republic and in that bush lies the biggest rabbit because there is no defined which, which are constitutional powers in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament, government or president of the Republic, so it could be said that any referendum initiative that has budgetary implications is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament and the government because it is the budget, so I ask you whether the referendum issue "We do not give our highway" would be declared an issue which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament and government because it has any budgetary implications or referendum "67 is too much" too. So we have to ask ourselves what powers we have for the constitutional court, or for the majority who then exists to the Constitutional Court, to assess the referendum issue every time and again. Our view is that it is necessary in advance to prescribe which articles of the constitution define the exclusive powers of the parliament, government or president of the Republic. They're also listed here in an explanation, but not in the proposal itself. So here it says the constitution does not know the state referendums for appointments and impeachment, there are also issues such as war and peace decisions, order the use of armed forces, although no state of war has been declared to show confidence to the government, by giving pardon, by proposing the adoption of a state budget, etc. We agree, these are some exclusive powers of Parliament and government. And in some part of the President of the Republic, but let's also say, in the proposal for constitutional amendments, a referendum cannot be launched for these, these and these issues, respectively, for these and those articles of the Constitution. And everyone will know that these are articles of the Constitution that they cannot, which cannot be decided on in a referendum. Furthermore, what is our additional problem with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the granting of excessive powers which are not clearly restricted, so far as their restriction is concerned. The area of arbitration is opening. We fear the truth of this arbitration of the Constitutional Court, especially the current majority in the Constitutional Court, because the Covid decision has shown us that they are ready because of the short-term interest, the short-term interest to ignore the fundamental postulates of the Constitution when they have said that the ordinary parliamentary majority is choosing whether to be limited 2/3 to most in the assembly in making decisions that restrict human rights in an emergency or not. So the basic principle of brakes and balance is in the trash. And yes, that's why I'm afraid to let that majority of the Constitutional Court assess just every referendum question is whether or not it's in the exclusive jurisdiction of some majority in the assembly and some government. Furthermore, the quorum of decision-making for the amendments of the Constitution I agree there must be a quorum of decision-making that we can't have a cadaver situation to come by that 5% of people and change some basic provisions of the Constitution. However, the quorum of decisions that you have set makes it impossible for us to ever again have a successful constitutional referendum initiative. It will take 1.2 million people plus a little more votes to propose a referendum initiative. Which means if you have the ratio of the only constitutional referendum initiative from 2013 then the ratio was 66:33, 66% voted for, 33 against, in this ratio it means that your overall turnout must be above 1.8 million, which is 50% plus all voters enrolled in the Republic. Which means we're asking 200 and a few thousand people to vote more in favour, to go to a referendum than to parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120137	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues are here two days before the summer break, it is a very important topic and I am sorry that this is happening just when citizens are not giving much attention to our work. I wish it were different, but I'll take the opportunity to point out some things again, and it's too bad there aren't any more MPs in the assembly. I think this is an extremely important topic. So, regarding the amendments to the Constitution, I agree in principle that this must not happen often. The Constitution must be a fundamental act of each state, have one power and not be exposed to frequent changes depending on public opinion and the like. However, today we have a proposal on the agenda that will, in a new way, regulate some issues, the matter of referendums and similar questions, which is very important for us, which when key institutions such as the Constitutional Court misread fundamental principles. When he's misreading it because it's their mission. So maybe the public doesn't know there's a Constitutional Court of 13 judges, their choice isn't very exposed in public space. So, I'll read what the terms are or who can be elected judge of the Constitutional Court. So, it chooses the Croatian Parliament in time of 8 years from the ranks of prominent lawyers, particularly judges, state lawyers, lawyers, university professors and similar to the term of office of 8 years. In other words, I would say to older democracies that choice is highly exposed to the court and does not last just one day. Therefore, not only do they come to the hearing of the Assembly Committee one day and notices, answer questions and move on, but it takes if it takes days and weeks. And then the public can learn about the attitudes of those people who will interpret what the Constitution allows or does not allow. So in Croatia, I would say it's very depressing, people don't know who these people are, they're anonymous, they're largely anonymous, and I think it has to change. However, I will look back on some of the last decisions that I consider to be deeply wrong and not only with constitutional provisions but with common sense. For example, about the already famous rule of law, the right to abortion whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not, among other things, constitutional judges say that it is not in their jurisdiction to interpret or determine when life begins but is a matter of legislation, legislation. So once again I'm going to repeat there's no Catholic biology, there's no Islamic biology, there's an atheistic biology, there's a biology. There's biology. There's no Catholic medicine, there's no Islamic medicine, there's no atheist medicine. And in line with the knowledge that's unquestionable, I think that's what any reasonable person should accept, so certainly constitutional judges, but they don't. So they relativize, even ignore some basic knowledge of science, and then we get into difficult problems because they don't depend, some things can't depend on most of this House, when human life begins, it's supposed to be undeniable, and not to let us ignore biological data and interpret it into various things, I haven't actually heard a coherent theory that claims otherwise, if it's not conceived, then when human life begins? Therefore, it is only one example that does not put trust in the work of our judges, when they can be wrong about such a fundamental issue, and this proposal does not only affect the powers of the Constitutional Court, but increases them. That's what we need to worry about, the powers are increasing. I mentioned the phenomenon of judicial activity in the replica of my colleague Bošnjakovic, judicial activists, that should also concern us, so it is a practice in many countries where, by the way, most citizens are determined and actually judges become politicians, activists, in promoting certain ideologies. This should concern us and this practice comes to Croatia, it's not just a thing in America where it took 50 years to correct a mistake but it comes here and here, so judicial activation and what to do when judges and judges of the Constitutional Court are wrong, where are our mechanisms? They're gone. They're gone. Therefore, we need to be very careful when increasing, not reducing, but increasing the powers of the Constitutional Court. The people should be concerned, often come to me by our citizens who say they don't know who to address, who to represent them in the Parliament because simply the people choose us the way they choose us, through the party lists. So that feeling of impotence and that their voice is not heard enough, remains. And we see this in fact through various examples of the past with failed referendum initiatives how our institutions so those who control and manipulate us actually manage to narrow down and prevent the people from expressing their will. These are actually worrying tendencies, so whenever we talk about issues where we do not agree, we should still have more confidence in our own citizens, we represent them, not some third people but the Croatian people, people who chose us and therefore, the Homeland Movement will continue to raise their voice against any narrowing of freedom of expression, so I see, as well as others who mentioned it earlier, the danger that no referendum initiative will be allowed with such interpretation, and I will repeat, the Constitutional Court has not justified its work of trust. Unfortunately. We have in general one crisis of trust in the institutions and also in the Parliament itself. Therefore, we should look soberly and avoid, I would say demagogy and other species, I would say political low arguments and say in principle that citizens have the right to determine some fundamental issues, it is not, as I hear, about the question of marriage as a community of men, one man and women, homophobia, it is a labelling when there are no arguments, not a Croatian people homophobic people, but in accordance with what they know and what they believe they have voted for and we should be there, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional patriots, constitutional patriots and not ignore that constitutional provision. Often from the left, it is insisted that civic education must enter schools, but it is interesting that civic education in this form does not mention that constitutional provision and that the people voted in the definition of marriage. It's ignored. So we're selective to constitutional principles when it suits us, and when it doesn't fit, then we ignore it, everyone sees it. That's what our citizens see. Therefore, let us be consistent, the Constitution is a serious topic, we need to clearly and well define how it can be changed, we trust in Croatian people, they voted well for the '90 referendum. when it was decided on its own Croatia, in '91, therefore, we must understand our responsibility, and I will repeat again, that the key institutions and those individuals in the Constitutional Court have failed several times and we have reason not to believe in their judgment. Therefore, we will continue to be very critical of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120139	Now we will continue to discuss our united two points. We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120140	First of all, I will say that it will not be all right because it is not a topic that should be discussed in this manner exclusively in the Croatian Parliament, but rather on the subject where citizens are in the referendum, I will repeat once again, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, what they think about amending the Constitution that will change the way they decide in the referendum. When we talk about who was supposed to participate in this debate here, it could be heard from certain opposition clubs that we need a wider national round table, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've had this before, we've already organized it last week at the Croatian Parliament. They called on union representatives, university professors who specialize precisely in constitutional law, representatives of NGOs who oversee democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia and representatives of those initiatives that have successfully held referendums so far and of course all interested parliamentary representatives. Unfortunately, as is often the case with our club, we haven't seen anyone, and now we're hearing about how a round table should be organized. Regardless of this, we have launched a debate on how the referendum issue should look to the Republic of Croatia and I will correct my colleague Sacic, and here I see him from the parliamentary representatives except for the representatives of our club and in dialogue with key social actors, have drawn up some solutions, respect their proposals that I would like to highlight here in line with what we have previously advocated when we talk about regulating the referendum issue in the Republic. First of all, when we talk about amendments to the Constitution concerning the citizens' referendum on the referendum, we ask about these amendments to the Constitution. It is their fundamental right and they have the right to decide on it. If they advocate such changes as yours and I don't believe, and therefore you probably don't, then we can discuss it further, and that decision, or the amendment of the Constitution, will have legitimacy. Second, no quorum. So that is what is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. In the current situation that when we have about half a million voters less than the official record of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, when we have about 185,000 voters outside the Republic of Croatia who are hard to respond and the turnout is small, this really is not the time to install any quorum, at the very end of the line, it is also the recommendation of the Venice Commission. Furthermore, what we advocate is facilitating the referendum initiatives, it is definitely reducing the number of signatures needed to secure the referendum in the Republic of Croatia and also extending the deadline for collecting signatures. One of the key changes that should take place is the change in the way constitutional judges are elected. For example, we can take quotas according to the excellence of legal experts in branches of rights modeled in Germany. In Croatia, out of 13 judges, none of them are professors from any law school. In any case, the choice of constitutional judges needs to be changed. We also advocate a number of practical solutions that point to problems encountered by previous initiatives, which is the possibility of collecting signatures through the e-Citizens system. So let's make it easier for the citizens to express their will. To enable volunteers to enter data with the government signature of citizens, collect signatures on all public areas and private places, as for the presidential elections. So these are some of our very concrete proposals that we have made after we have listened to in a constructive debate and representatives of the profession, but also the practitioners, those who have organised referendum initiatives in the Republic of Croatia so far. And this is the way and the only democratically correct way to settle the referendum issue in the Republic of Croatia, and you who occasionally call on the Venice Commission and the Code of Good Practice when you edit the Law on Referendum from the ruling structure, when it suits you, and then ignore it here when I tell you that you don't need a quorum and that you should ask citizens at the referendum about the referendum, just prove by their own hypocrisy that you are not prepared to dialogue on how to edit this key A democratic issue in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120141	We have one replica of the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120142	What may be most raving in this proposal is essentially an enormous increase in the powers of the Constitutional Court. We now have one situation that a body that is 4th as a pillar of power does not belong to this judicial one but should be judged whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not, we have seen a volunteerist one, I would not say legal but more rhetorical acrobatics explaining why 400 thousand signatures collected for the signing of the referendum, among other things, one question for a change of the Constitution, is in accordance with the Constitution, but to God brings citizens into confusion and it is not acceptable. So now that body becomes an absolute cover aprior to show the people's will as prescribed by Article. 1 Constitution. So instead of going towards a better definition of the role of the Constitutional Court or even its abolition and the transfer of powers to the Supreme Court as resolved in many countries, which would also result in a solid budget savings, we now have a hypertrophy of the roles of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120143	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120144	There is no official referendum initiative approved by the Constitutional Court in Croatian democratic history. There are amendments to the laws that occurred because of certain signatures collected, these were trade union initiatives, and that no referendum was allowed, and there was one referendum that took place in the Republic of Croatia, which is because the issue did not go to the Constitutional Court. For all other issues that have been articulated by legal experts of individual initiatives sent to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court did not allow them. And why is that? Because each government sees the referendum as a referendum against itself and fears the referendum of its own citizens, and the Constitutional Court, the way the choice of constitutional judges works, represents only its extended hand. And that's why I agree, it's worth considering if we're going to change the choice of constitutional judges, if we're going to transfer powers to someone else, but this situation is certainly unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120145	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Damir Habian, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120146	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's just for a little while on behalf of the promoter a few things to look back on. So today we're listening here by colleagues from the Bridge as this was something hidden, they didn't know anything, they were not at all aware that they were going into any process of amending the Constitution and constitutional law on the legal area of the referendum and were terribly surprised. Then on the other hand, they're now saying that last week they organized a round table on that particular subject. So you deny yourself, so what you've organized on that topic when you are, and why you are, because you knew which way you're going, so I don't see the reasons why you're turning the saw upside down now. You're also saying that, or we were listening here when you were collecting these signatures for a referendum on Covid's certificate, how difficult it was for you, that you were freezing yourself, that it was winter, that you needed to change something, that we were listening to when we talked about the Bill's proposal on the referendum, and then you asked for the same thing, and most of the opposition to change something, to change the Constitution, to change the constitutional law, and now we have, we're starting this first step, so we're going, we're going to approach the amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law, just so that the legal area of the referendum would improve, you've reduced this number of signatures, so you said that a big problem under these weather conditions would collect almost 400 thousand signatures, now we're going to be 250, so now it's not good, so your argumentation is very, very bad. You're talking here about the recommendations of the Venice Commission, but you forget that in these three steps we're going to have.../incomprehensible/... that we're going to have a public consultation. So anyone who is interested, and according to you, and I am sure that this is the case, every Croatian citizen will be able to participate in this process. He'll be able to tell what's bothering him, which is not good for him, which he thinks should be better, so what you're saying is you're just showing again that you have this modus operandi, that you have this narrative that serves only and you're going to use this procedure again only to collect cheap political points and that you're not at all credible because you're disabling yourself, so you're saying one thing an hour before this, and now you're saying something quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120147	Replica of respected MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120148	I'm being honest with you, fellow Habib is torturing the sequence of your logic and it's bothering me why there's nothing bothering you in your proposal because you've put it out in the middle of the line. First, the fact is that last week we talked about a referendum and started a dialogue with wider social players in this matter, and you didn't do the same, shows only that it was important for us, and the fact that you changed the agenda overnight, which was already set in a different way without this point, shows that you are manipulating the agenda to impoverish the debate and that you suddenly and unplannedly would push this issue through before the summer break and that all talks about your credibility. And when we talk about what had to be done and about collecting signatures we've certainly given you good directives here, the only problem is that you don't want to listen to them and you showed it with this agenda. So, you have recommendations from the Venice Commission, you do not need interested citizens to repeat that in their comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120149	Thank you. Dear Representative Habiban, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120150	Thank you very much. So I'm glad you volunteered for the replica to re-depress yourself, so now you've said again last week that you organized a round table with a wide public interest with experts, and I say all the time today you point out here that something hidden was inserted overnight on the agenda. So you're here as much as I am 2. in HS, so I guess you've already been able to look at and read the Rules of Procedure and the way points are included in the agenda. So this procedure began precisely on the trail of amendments to the Law on Referendum and the need to amend the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to better regulate it, and you've been to it and now that it's on the agenda now something doesn't fit, that's what I'm telling you, so that's your narrative to collect cheap political points and you're just the last thing in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120151	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120152	Art. The 238th demeaning of Parliamentarians, although I must apologize too, because I forget that this sudden change of agenda with the goal of pushing topics under the carpet and putting key themes into the scarce night hours is a standard mode of HDZ operand, and it is normal for you not to be surprised, it is just unusual for me to point out here as a bad democratic practice, so I apologize to you for forgetting, it is from your perspective common.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120153	Of course it was a replica on which, since you've spent your replicas, it's not correct that you use this institution to hurt the Rules of Procedure in the wrong direction, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120154	Dear counterpart Habian, here I want your comment, it seems that the fellow bridge measure the time at the moment when Nikola Grumoja looks at the weekly plan of the debate, the point on the agenda is already a few days, but here is when he looked at it at the bus, excuse me, at the gas station then they probably started measuring and time and then they were so quick to come to Zagreb for a session that has been going on for a few days. It was your comment on one actually silent coalition and one consensus between the SDP, We can!, Mosta, the Workers' Front, the Voice and others on this matter. I understand here SDP, here's my colleague, Bauk, I've been listening very carefully, they actually want this to be inserted through these changes to the constitution and the right to abortion so-called. In the constitution, but I don't understand the quasi conservatives from the Bridge why they're holding a ladder, why are they actually helping them with the whole situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120155	The Honorable representative Peovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120156	The Rules of Procedure in Art. 238, a colleague of Zekanovic's minimum concentration if we can win from you, means that you follow who's for constitutional change and who's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120157	Of course, and it was a replica, you get a warning. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120158	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague, Zekanovic, most of all, as far as the weather is concerned, they're a little confused, I hear that now colleague Rasdic is saying that in the night we're discussing this, so now it's 14 o'clock in the afternoon, so obviously I don't understand what you think nighttime is. Yes, they care so much about these constitutional, constitutional changes that they drove the car yesterday, although the session you said was already going on for a few days, but what I said was not constructive here today, and what I'm saying about this coalition is I'm not sure how long it's going to take, there's obviously some momentary interest to stick together, so we can! and the Bridge and the SDP and the Workers' Front, as clearly as they didn't like it now and are very protesting, but I think we witness it every day, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120159	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has again committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120160	I gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120161	You gave up, okay, thank you. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120162	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, don't worry about the SDP. Namely, if you look at this proposal to change the constitution and compare it with our proposals of 2018 and 2013 you will not find any significant differences, there are some details that need to be fixed, so that I look favourably at this amendment to the Constitution, and on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Constitution I see something less mild than the proposal, because in point 2 there is too much limited space for the Committee on Constitution to adopt in the second phase a draft amendment to the Constitution and therefore my club has also tabled an amendment to remove the bonds to the Constitution Committee, that my colleague Bošnjakovic has more space in negotiations with other clubs, so that this, in a good way, starts this debate on the change of the Constitution. As for the text proposed by 92 MPs, it has 4 basic pillars, it is one reduction in the number of signatures, which I believe everyone supports, another restriction on the subject on which a referendum can be called, which is not supported by all, but we support, the third is the introduction of a quorum for decision-making at the very referendum, which is also not supported by all, but we support and the fourth is a previous assessment of constitutionality which is also not supported by all, and we want it not to be a brake to carry out a referendum but rather to have one pedagogical and referring purpose in a way that when the Constitutional Court decides something that organisers can fix it and that the referendum can be called. In that sense, I believe that these constitutional changes will define a easier call for a referendum, and a little harder to make a decision at a referendum than before because I think it is not good for the social climate that decisions can be made with a minimum number of citizens who have come out, have come to the referendum. Therefore, I believe we have an interesting political autumn, whether in parliament or in the streets and squares. So much for what's in the proposal. In what is not in the proposal, which could be, we were saying, it is among other things the expansion of some human rights that are somewhere, which are normative, and only in practice, being questioned or at least difficult to achieve. There's also a matter of summer break, it should be constitutional matter or enough to be business matter. There is a question of a coin that was created as, colleagues would say, the subject of political trade, I would say the subject of the various political interests of those who brought the Constitution, which is a regional self-government framework. Legend has it that when HSLS and IDS were in opposition, that HSLS didn't want to write only regional because it sounded too much to them, in 2000, too little to throw at secessionism, and the IDS didn't want to agree not to write regionally, and then the wise Racan found this coin which was also an eclectic example, to say fellows from the Most, political trade, which is just the introduction of a referendum in the Constitution because it was in the Constitution at the request of 5 HSP MPs in 2000, if anyone forgot. This was the condition of the HSP to support constitutional changes in 2000, so it would also be called this, political trade, and some would say it was a democratic political agreement between parties with different programming goals, but managed to agree on a common minimum. We will also remember the constitutional changes in 2010 when there were enough majority of pro-European parties and MPs who wanted to facilitate Croatia's accession to the EU because these were all parties that went to the elections, they had the programme, and we will also remember a historic compromise where, for example, we regulated the number of representatives from the diaspora to be fixed on 3rd, not to turn it into a 22nd Croatian county with a bunch of polling stations and with a real campaign as it was in Croatia itself. Of course, if there's a proposal for a reduction, we won't object to it either, but that's something we can live with... all these years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, depending on the fate of our amendment or the meaning of our amendment, which is that at this stage of constitutional changes, we do not commit our hands to colleagues Bošnjakovic, the Constitution Committee, that we can try various mechanisms, of the existing two-thirds majority, we look kindly to the process of amending the Constitution and the direction in which these changes are going, but we have certain remarks that we will make in the next phases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120163	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120164	Dear colleague Bauk. Here's a nice statement you've made. 4 pillars and as far as I understand it, you agree with all 4 pillars, you don't actually have any major objections, and no matter what you're not signatories, you're actually going to ultimately support these constitutional changes, correct me if I get it wrong. Question for you, why did HDZ go into these constitutional changes in the first place, why did they initiate constitutional changes? I can guess, and I'm going to offer one answer, maybe and I'm wondering if, by any chance, the right to an abortion, which you also want to put as a constitutional category, is limited by a possible referendum, means and the referendum is passed in the Constitution, if you pass these amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law? Would that question be limited?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120165	Dear Representative Bauk [[I don't know if you understand me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120166	I didn't understand you very well, but I do believe that the possible referendum issue of amending or supplementing the Constitution as defined in the proposal of 40 MPs, the second proposal for a change of the Constitution, would pass through the sieve and the resolution of these constitutional provisions, and the constitutional provisions of the following when they were adopted. But in my thinking and seeing as Croatia's termination, a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution to the proposal of 40 MPs would take place before these changes take effect today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120167	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120168	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Two things I'd like you to clarify. First, the ruling rejected our request to make it clear to the Constitution that a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth, and the state provides assumptions for the exercise of this right, with an argument, that she already has it in the Constitution. So where's that in the Constitution? That's the first thing. The second thing, by ruling majority support for these changes now in the Constitution they want on the referendum, and yet I say, they don't want what we propose to change in the Constitution. You've had enough of these meetings, how did they manage to imagine it? So yours won't, but you accept ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120169	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120170	As far as the second question is concerned, I do not even convince from our party meetings, let alone from multilateral meetings, so in this sense I can say that the process of amending the Constitution is always a complicated process that requires the agreement of those who do not otherwise agree, not to agree, but rather to be political opponents and it is very difficult for those who are in opposition and accept the proposal of the ruling ones to explain why they did it, it should be a pretty big reason to also need certain types of skill. As for the fate of our proposal to supplement the Constitution, I will correct you, not all of you having ruled out our proposal, some have signed it. Yeah. So for now HDZ has rejected it, but if the process of change is opened, until the process is completed, there is hope, even if it is small, that it enters the Constitution in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120171	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120172	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bauk, I would like to return to what you stated in your individual speech, and this is about the amendment that you, and your club, have made to this conclusion. What, if I understand correctly, is the meaning of your amendment to give the Chairman for the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure a little greater powers which I think is good, that it is good to give him greater authority, or I think that in these discussions the interest of all of us should be to get a good and quality solution. And when it comes to the referendum of the point of view I am that at some point we need to open up both the debate and the referendum law because it is the whole package or as if now in terms of the tourist season we call all inclusive because we should discuss everything, and it would not be good for the promoter to actually set the whole thing in a way to take or leave. 'Cause if you take it or leave it then it sure as hell won't. and lead to some kind of conversation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120173	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120174	I listened carefully to my colleague Bosnjakovic on behalf of the promoter, and he pointed out several times that he would talk. And by our amendment, we are actually helping him and making his job easier to talk about because if in the beginning as it is now formulated these talks you bring down to very narrow frameworks then the room for conversation and for a deal is much smaller than if space and agreement were wider. I think if I didn't do that, I could write it on a t-shirt like that, there's a bigger space to talk about, there's a bigger space to deal with, here's what I'll do next time, yeah. Therefore, that is, we have submitted an amendment based on what we have heard from the promoters and that the promoters are not only ruling but also part of the opposition exactly what I would like to hear about our amendment as the promoter. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120175	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120176	You support this change in the Constitution, how it doesn't surprise me. All you have done so far has been for personal and against Croatian interests and against the interests of Croatian citizens, but also against European values. You and your party have worked on a pre-profit law that is a law for rich people and is contrary to all the principles of social justice. You worked on the criminal privatisation of Croatia's insurance and eventually participated in corruption in the case of Uljanik. You want Croatia to be an experimental rabbit in which Furio Radin and Pupovac will be posthumously represented. That's what you want. You want Croatia to be an unfair and unjust state, and not an orderly state through the blockade of the judiciary and other institutions, you brought Croatia to a beggar stick. So you opposed the procession of the Libyan liquidators, protected the refugees Perkovic and Mustac and argued Croatia with Europe. You are now allowing JNA to ban Croatians from voting for a valued lawyer, Miroslav Šeparovic. Yes, your goal is to degrade Croatia. That's your goal, say it openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120177	Honorable, esteemed representative, esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120178	I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120179	You're not, okay. This esteemed representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120180	Dear colleague here we have now learned that you will ally support these changes and be that overreach obviously constitutional, but I am now interpreting it and you yourself have said that it is some distance of time dealing with colleagues, honorary colleagues from HSP Djapic, Jukic, this Rozic and this Tadic and the late Kovacevic who actually forced you to the then government of the detudmanised and this parliamentary call to introduce it, and now I see that you are opposing the people to keep that initiative. How is it, how is it motivated that simply such a time-out and that you need now finally to join those who oppose...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120181	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120182	... I can get 7 seconds, we actually brought this HSP amendment to life in 2010 by abolishing this censorship that was 50% before. [[Specially enabled.]] So, this initiative since HSP entered it has never been implemented because I think no referendum has called it a success. Only by our 2010 amendments were this repaired in a way, but unfortunately in a way that left that and initiatives which are actually much more illegal than many parliamentary parliaments calling for parliaments to change the Constitution. I don't think that's good. So there should be a certain limit that still those who change the Constitution should skip. Whether it's 40%, 30%, 20%, or some other number, that's going to show up in the next two discussions. And as for our attitude, I just said that I look favorably at the proposal. which is attached to this decision, not to this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120183	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120184	Dear colleague Bauk, here you have just said in your presentation that you support and introduce a quorum to make certain decisions, but is it not enough first to collect several hundred thousand signatures according to the new proposal for a referendum where you will have to know exactly which location, log in, etc., it is necessary to know exactly who is responsible for these signatures, etc., a number of other things, depending on the weather conditions and then introduce that quorum when deciding on the referendum itself. Isn't that an additional killing of the referendum institute itself and that there are too many restrictions or that in every way possible it tries to throw out the people in a direct decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120185	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120186	I don't see it that way. So, if we had three referendums each year now, something changes to reduce that, you'd understand. But in 10 years, we've had 1 letter in a single referendum, so any change can't be worse than it is today. The Em Constitutional Court can, without any reason, say so resolutely that the issue is not constitutional, if the issue is constitutional, then it can say those who have collected have crossed over those who have signed in the end, and in the end there is no referendum again. I think this is more correct. So, firstly, the constitutionality of the issue is determined, a smaller number of signatures are collected, a referendum campaign is conducted, and a number of citizens need to support the proposal in order to be legitimate, smaller. That's, that's what, so that's what I think should be in an orderly state. And if you see the difference between what we suggested in 2013 and this to that extent that we need to jump to the back legs, warn me, you can warn me on the phone, you can make this public I'll jump first and the word can't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120187	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120188	So I'll read from Wikipedia what's on your behalf, which means that you said that the EU referendum, by comparing the number of citizens who went to a referendum in the Republic of Croatia with the number of adult residents according to the last census of the population in the referendum, came out 58 full-aged, 58% of the adult population of the Republic of Croatia. Are you still standing by that statement? Namely, now that we're looking at how many people went to the EU referendum, that's about 1/3 of the voters actually enrolled, not what you said, and what's still standing on Wikipedia is that it's 58% of the voters enrolled. But right now I think it's not that important that we go back in time, but the quorum problem is really big because 750,000 voters are a change of marriage, the definition of marriage is going to vote, and now a million 290,000 would be required. It's really a lot more voters who have to vote for some initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120189	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120190	When I said before in one of the previous replicas that we had one referendum I missed the word that we had one referendum too. So, I believe that this referendum should not have passed or that an insufficient number of voters legitimately voted to change that constitutional provision, but it was in line with the Constitution and I, as a legalist, accept it. So this assembly was voted by millions and 750 thousand people, 2/3 of the million 750 is about a million 130 and something, and that should be the pandan of the two-thirds majority of the assembly needed to change the Constitution. Let's say there's more lost votes somewhere 10%, so let's make it a million. It's somewhere less than a third, but not much less than a third of the total number, the total number of voters. As for the EU referendum, we then had 4.5 million voters enrolled, and 3.5 million adult residents signed in 2011. The number of votes divided by 3.5 million gave the 58% so myself, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120191	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120192	Dearly esteemed fellow Bauk, I am pleased to convey to you the praises of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who has just said in Okucani, he says that there are reasonable options in the assembly with which he can agree nicely, etc. Here we have seen the Social Democrats that they are reasonable, we know long ago that Zekanovic is reasonable, IDS has become reasonable, Milan Vrkljan is reasonable, and now we know that you are reasonable too. More specifically, you'll vote for this proposal on Friday. I acknowledge to you the cunning because you let your direct political competitors Social Democrats stand out so that after they have founded the party and try to offer an alternative to what you do, they have been finely signed, today they are being pulled around the media as some new Plenkovic chips, and then see wonders you will do the same as they vote for but pass much closer. So, you're reasonable, you've got Plenkovic's praises, you've got the Social Democrats down, and you've pulled out of the signature, and you're gonna be here on Friday. vote for what suits you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120193	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120194	It's hard to remain immune to these commendations of colleagues. I am if you listened carefully to me, and it is our vote Friday that connected to the fate of our amendment. And our amendment is going to include the MOST proposal in the amendments to the Constitution on Article 17. So we without the Most, really, it would be really, really nothing. So, as far as this pandemic is concerned, let's say that if it were part of constitutional changes, as the Constitutional Court said, it wouldn't change much, but it would respect the will of the citizens. As for other political parties, this is a free country, free association, and everyone has the right to organize properly, so I will repeat. We have made an amendment to the motion for a decision, we have no problem with the text that is attached, but we want to get into the process of constitutional change with a slightly wider possibility of agreement than just this. And this would be the first reasonable step by the proposing to accept this proposal and thus enable us to participate more actively in these changes. If that's not the way it is. We'll see what happens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120195	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, here are two short questions, and I believe two quick answers. For what reason do you not have all the topics for the referendum? And secondly, here's something about the question of a respected colleague of the Rasputic is what kind of political utopia is, or what does that mean, a sufficient degree of consent of parliamentary clubs and MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120197	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120198	The answer to the second question means 101 votes, 2/3, that's a sufficient degree of consent. As far as the referendum theme goes, let's say the first thing that comes to mind is a referendum, for example. decide whether a specific group of citizens will be deprived of citizenship. So it is quite certain that the question that would be said should Croatian citizens only be members of the Croatian people would not be subject to the referendum because it would be explicitly anti-minor or other issues that might be present. If we forbid older women and younger men to marry, is that for a referendum, no, because it limits certain rights. Or should we forbid that we have more than two or less than four children, it's not the same for a referendum. So because, that's, that's the question, that's, that's the question that I don't think you should be in a referendum and that others shouldn't decide on individual rights of individuals. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120199	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120200	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk, please explain to me the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Since the applicants of these 92 signatories of this decision, the motion for a decision says that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of and within the framework of the motion for a decision, and the proposal for a decision only refers to the referendum issue, will discuss the draft amendments to the Constitution, whether all the signatories of all of them 92 support the amendment of the Constitution when it refers solely to the question and the referendum, I remind only the amendment of 3 articles of the Constitution in relation to 152 of the Constitution, more precisely, although the subject of the amendment of the Constitution is not a human right of women to the choice and decision to give birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120201	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120202	I'm sure 92 signatories have 92 different opinions about what the Constitution should include, but that what they signed is some kind of minimum common denominator. From the explanation of certain opposition MPs, they explained their signature that they only signed to go into constitutional changes and I can accept it, however, to go only into constitutional changes based on and in the context of the 4 articles, they will show it by voting on our amendment, if the promoters do not accept it in such or in changed form, and then there will be no room for us to say this, but we are not what we were thinking when we did this. So here's how my colleague Rasudiæ said we're giving these lost sheep a chance to return to the herd because it's more worth one than how it's already going.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120203	Now they will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120204	My colleagues and colleagues, I would like the situation to be this way in the assembly as my colleague Bauk said earlier if he is convinced that 92 signatories of this proposal have 92 different opinions, you can think of these 76 or 77 which is pluralism, everyone else thinks differently, but by some miracle they have agreed. I will repeat for the hundredth time, in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to regulate and enable the referendum, with us to perform acrobatics in order to make it impossible and we see constant mistrust in the will of the citizens. The age-old citizens who have not been deprived of their business capacity are therefore equivalent in civil terms to all of us and with ministers and with the president are defined in the constitution as holders of sovereignty, from which comes sovereignty and belongs to them, to citizens or to the people. So, these stories about how to disable a referendum that would vote here to take away citizenship from the insecure or not ethnic Croats, so that's crazy. How do you think you can achieve democratic society and democratic power if you think that most people would think so, so what kind of opinion you have about citizens, is that maybe that reason of that fixation on civic education, which is essentially civil pre-age, the people are wrong, but there's a party as an avant-gard of the working people that, because the party knows better what the interests of the people are and what's good than the people, the people or the citizens as you wish. So, we know that this is being discussed, we know that SDP, Bauk, in particular, that he's been skiing with HDZ in those conversations, the naive Social Democrats have fallen into the building, these have not signed, you've signed, by some miracle your president hasn't signed, but the rest of you have, so today he's calling you Plenkovic's chips, and he's handing out praise for how reasonable you are, great for the start of the new parties, but your choice. We criticized the fact that ad hoc overnight is changing the agenda and that this point is being swept up which should have been beautifully announced in time, it's just about that, not that it's being smuggled into the agenda. The three important points of this proposal are the first to reduce the number of signatures needed to 250 thousand not enough, if we look at some European practice, it should be 2%, 72 thousand, if you want to cut down in line with some European average and European examples, and not petting your eyes like here is no more 360 or 400 thousand than it was on Bauk, but it's 250 thousand because of course the rabbit lies in another bush. This is point 2 of the quorum issue, 1/3 of the voters need to vote for the change of the constitution, `for the law and this is what the people who rule in 17% of the voters' votes received in Croatia, clear and clouded in 17%, would impose 33.3% on changing the constitution of all. The Venice Commission, not only the Venice Commission, all that comes from the EU is a sacred letter when it fits, and now suddenly it is no good to recommend by the Venice Commission not to limit the quorums but offered honor, how many people come out and decide. And at the end of the most important point, you could have reduced this to not 250 grand but 5 grand, because there's a constitutional court that you've chosen in the political trade with the SDP where you've parked your own political personnel, people put in a series of affairs of false representations in banks, murky godfather ties, that I'm not going to go now into the details that the remote control of the ruling policy is going to make the decision that needs to be made, and in the beginning, it's going to block a referendum initiative that isn't according to the will of the ruling, here's the proposal. Left to yesterday's opposition, and today we see a part of the same click trying to smooth the eyes of its electoral body by smuggling something into the constitution in such a way, of course it won't happen because HDZ will now show that they are great democrats, great Croats and Catholics and defenders of the rights of unborn children because they will not allow your departure, so you will again turn out to be useful fools, you little less, Social Democrats much more. Here's the epilogue of this whole story. We are happy that we did not go to these negotiations as we will be happy and sleep peacefully Friday night because we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120205	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has broken the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120206	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I refer to the article. 238, when we speak and, as the esteemed representative has spoken, we can use some other words, but the word “skiing” and tie to the name and name of one parliamentary representative, I think it is not appropriate, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120207	Thank you, I agree with you, it's not appropriate, and unfortunately here we listen to anything inappropriate. I have to give you a warning, but I suggest we all watch our mouths. ... What do you have to say to me slowly, what's wrong with you? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, you do, but you can't communicate with me like that and talk to me slowly. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, then you can do it, you can do it, and no one is defending you, but in an appropriate way, yes. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, I don't. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm sorry, I'm not responsible here, like I'm not responsible for cleaning the floor, for example, so please don't. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. You can't talk to me. Please state your violation of the Rules of Procedure, if that is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Reiner defends Bauk, look at this, look at these big coalitions.]] What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure? [[What a great coalition, an anti-national one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120208	He's been injured. 238, insulting and demeaning me as a parliamentary representative. I have never said a vulgar or offensive word in these two years in this House. Explain to me what it means to ski, is it something vulgar and what's the problem with that expression? Here, please explain to me in Croatian and you and MP Mrak-Taritash what it means to ski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120209	I'm representatives of the Dark-Taritash gave a warning, just as I'm going to give you because this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Pavic, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120210	Dear Representative, the fact is that some meetings were held in the HDZ cabinet, the fact is that some of them took the signature lists, then they didn't hand them over, why they didn't hand them over, I don't know, we were signed, no one sat us down, we knowingly signed it, and I repeat again, if the price to get the provisions in the Constitution and be the law on the referendum so that the referendum can be implemented afterwards and that our citizens have the right to vote in the referendum, if it's the price to withdraw me in the papers, I will sign again, if it takes 5 times, it's not a problem. But that my friends, my acquaintances, my fellow citizens can go to a referendum and speak their mind. The goal was this dialogue, we finally opened it, we can't open it ourselves, and it can't vote itself. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120211	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120212	Dear colleague Pavić, I agree with you. If the price of our people being able to go to a referendum and express their opinion is not only that they're pushing us negatively through the media, but also in this assembly to tell me to paralyze people's deaths, I'm willing to agree to it, but I've been trying to explain to you why this proposal is not allowing it, but disabling it, through two points. It is this quorum that is pushed past the recommendation of the Venice Commission which is otherwise so piously followed, and the second is that the Constitutional Court, as it is, will determine which question can pass, which cannot pass. These are arguments that I offer for the thesis that this will not enable and facilitate and edit the referendum but will disable it in everything that goes with the hair of the ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120213	Honorable representative Pavic has raised injuries to the Businessmen. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120214	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238 for pointing out the wrong allegations. Namely, if you have listened to the opening statement, the result of all these negotiations and talks is also the compromise that the promoter has made. So we're going to talk about it, and our goal is to get to what you suggested and Mr. Grmoy's when you were crying because you couldn't hold a referendum, people. I want that referendum to be held once. Let's do it to make a deal with them because without the rulings we can't bring, it can't be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120215	Thank you. Well, guidance is not supposed to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120216	Dear colleague Rasputic, here we are to help our colleague Pavic, who is a nice man to me and I don't think he's any political fraud. Why does Arsen Bauk and the team announce that they will go to a referendum on abortions in the Constitution under the old rules and not on the new ones they are negotiating with HDZ? The answer is very simple, because what they are now agreeing with HDZ will make it difficult to carry out the referendum. So it is quite clear what kind of game it is here, and I call on my fellow Social Democrats to give up and to withdraw from this process, not to give their hands for such changes on Friday, because surely this team, therefore Arsen Bauk and Branko Bačić, who cooperate more than anyone in this House, will rule you out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120217	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120218	I can only repeat that metaphor that I animalically said today, which is not to negotiate with a fox about poultry protection modes, shortly after she committed the slaughter in a henhouse. That's naive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120219	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120220	Dear colleague. When we read this argument on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, then a significant space is given down the reason why it enters, that the reason between, that it wants to ensure the stability of a democratic society, reduce tension and, watch out now, reduce financial expenditure to the organisers of the initiative. On the contrary, I think, and I would like to hear your opinion, when we do away with every possibility for Croatian people to spontaneously express their dissatisfaction or give, they want to make a proposal to edit their social political life, what is their alternative? Then where's he going? How? So are we going to be part of the social unrest? The tensions, and as we can see, that wasn't their goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120221	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120222	I can only agree with you and once again warn that if we prevent people from institutionally showing their political will between the election cycles that are every 4 years, we create like that papal pot, we create one, one state of serious rise in social pressure, and that's not good. If there's no possibility of a referendum demonstration of will, in harsh situations, we've recently had them, it's just a street. And we don't want to deal with it because it doesn't run well for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120223	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's a colleague of the Rasdic. Here's when we already have a series of very fun and likable metaphors, skills and aphorisms, I'm very short in politics, but as long as I am, and before that, I've always followed and I can even personally cite one of these coalitions as I look at today through this story in the assembly, so we can see this big block coalition of HDZ and SDP, and then you might see that I might as well add one personal metaphor to Mr. Plenkovic as a mufasa that raises Arsena Bauk like that, so show it to the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120225	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120226	Well, here's half an hour ago, very nice and pleasant praises came from Mr. Plenkovic to all those he calls reasonable, and if that's the reason he calls reason, I'll be very happy to sign that I'm crazy, that I'm a fool, that I'm being unreasonable and what's already in that semantic field that's the opposite of what Plenkovic is praising at this point in view of their relationship with the referendumal expression of the will of citizens in the near past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120227	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120228	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Rasudiæ, you have again been able to unmanage yourself twice, for the first time you said that here overnight ad hoc on the agenda included this point, and before you said quote you by union we refused to discuss the change of constitution. So if you refused to talk to those you had to talk to if we wanted to change the constitution and constitutional law, of course you weren't informed, but again, you were denied if you were informed last week and you said yourself to organize the Round Table on this subject. On the third hand you're saying you've been crying, crying here for months how hard it's been for you to collect over 400 thousand signatures, now that that number has dropped to 250 thousand now doesn't fit again, so your colleague Rasudic is denying himself and it's only showing that your only interest is to buy you cheap political points, and I'm going to keep pointing out, cheap political points, you've shown it three times today in these five minutes alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120229	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120230	Better to collect cheap political problems than expensive state incentives, expensive watches like your previous Idol Sanader, carry in expensive bags expensive money like Branko Bačić returned or collected even this iron, the artisan has collected, so here I'd rather collect cheap political points than this from armature to clocks, so much about it. Secondly, there's no contradiction, so I'm saying why you're not normally putting this on the agenda a few weeks before we know it's Wednesday at 9:00 and 30 minutes than you've been doing the day before, that's what this is about. And as for the reduction of 400 thousand to 250, you could have reduced to 500, but you've set two fuses, one is this absurdly high quorum against the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and the other is this filter and the cover of the constitutional court that will tear down the questions on the remote control of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120231	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120232	Thank you. One of the greatest motives for us to call on the parliamentary majority to approach the amendments to the constitution on the referendum initiative is the fate of an unfair and undeserved fate of the motion that you have initiated to change the constitution when the constitutional court, without any logical and legitimate reasoning, has rejected one completely normal and constitutional proposal, and therefore the decision to move towards a change of constitution is something that we are asking for in the 10th year, about this way we proposed in 2013, so it is not "snap" means to strip and clint and withdraw under this... Don't defend me, so in that sense, in that sense I expect from you the praise of our ten years endurance, the right to choose is also a 30-year-old, therefore all the praises you have given us we receive on our weak shoulders and myself personally, thank you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120233	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120234	As much as I have tried to praise you in my humble eloquence and limited vocabulary, I cannot commend you today as Prime Minister Plenkovic has commended you, so I will not try. ... So he thinks of all these reasonable ones, and you're involved in reasonable because you said you'd support it on Friday. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And as for going back to this metaphorical, so you went online after the fox committed the slaughter in the henhouse, you went to talk to the fox to burn yourself with it so that these poor popcorn could save this future, so what would it do to you that you're the character in that bass, which would make you look so naive that you think the fox would agree or you might be in some kind of handcuff business in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120235	The Honorable Representative Bauk has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way is he injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120236	It's a shame to miss a good chance for, you've brought that fox twice to power, the first time in 2015 when only the defendants were convicted the second time in 2016 when they were wrongly convicted. Therefore, we support our proposal, whether there is anything logical but to support our proposal, some of the Bridge's proposals are supported and now our proposal will be your proposal to change the constitution to Article. 17th to strip the thing all the way, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120237	Thank you. This one, of course, you know I have to give this a warning. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120238	As an opposition, we supported everything you said more or less after the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Mosto's referendum initiative. Now the question I'm asking in front of you, I can understand you that today you don't want to talk about changes to the constitution in any way, but whether it might be better to open certain processes and talks, mainly because in some situations we have HDZ, you would dare say, on the wire through decisions of that same constitutional court, I'm talking about the right of women to choose or to throw up, as well as the election law and the problems we have with election units, whether it should not be our goal together, so let's see if we can achieve it together. And since it would be very easy to finish if someone supported HDZ or not, I'll take it from my colleagues, don't answer me, I win HDZ for now, and some of your colleagues brought it to power, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120239	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120240	Now, it would be said that my colleagues from the club in 2015 whether they brought HDZ to power or brought it to Croatian citizens who brought HDZ and SDP to the Egal, some negotiations were held, and some had conducted partial negotiations with Drago Prgomet if I was not deceived by memory beyond these despite the fact that poor Petrov had forced them to the public notary in a desperate gesture that those who came from the Most list signed that they would not negotiate independently. That famous one was a public notary. So it can be said that you pushed them yourself then with this credible negotiation into HDZ's arms, and the second time HDZ got older with a new man because the thoughts were probably different, it turned out to be the same if not even worse, more insidious. That's one thing. The second thing is, why didn't you sign this SDP proposal? If you were about to open the dialogue that here's good... Why didn't you sign it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, fairer were the Social Democrats who put on their signatures, so they're picking up a language of soup in the media today than you did, and it's like you're about to open this famous process, and you see who you're opening it with. I'm using a fox to repeat the modes of the protection of popcorn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120241	Okay, I see there's gonna be more damage to the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable Representative of the Bauk, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120242	You've managed to get me two warnings. So when we sign, it's no good that we sign, when we don't sign, it's no good why we didn't sign, when we say we're going to give the amendment, why did you give the amendment, when we say we won't give the amendment, you accept everything they're proposing. Look, we can't be a MOST and we can't copy pasta suggestions from the Most. So when we agree with the Most about something, we agree, then we're good, and when we disagree, then we're with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120243	Thank you. Here's the thing you said yourself. It's a second warning. Dear Representative Jaksic also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120244	She's gone. I'll get a warning. So, interesting word game 2015 or '16. Most was with HDZ because they were given the right by Croatian citizens who voted for HDZ, but this time the citizens voted for HDZ. And as for the listing of 2015, 2016, who was talking to, negotiated, whose presidents, I am a member of the SDP, but I must tell you that with most of these people you are, and today you have been much more in touch than I do. So don't answer to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120245	Here's what you said yourself. You have to get a warning, so we're moving on to the next debate, and it's going to be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120246	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the usual methodology of colleagues from the MOST, extort what they have and leave, but what's there. So I've been trying to be reasonable all my political life, and I've been trying to get all these subjects to be reasonable, and I think it's my virtue, not my fault, but it's here, and now we're going a little bit on the subject that's the subject. The topic is whether, therefore, to be absolutely clear, whether the conditions have been met or whether we want to open a debate on the amendment of the Constitution regarding the referendum, point. That's the topic we're talking about today, and we need to see it. I ask you, are you satisfied with the solution that is in the Constitution today? Are you satisfied with the legislative solution proposed in the second reading of the referendum law? Are you satisfied with the current situation where we have had in the last 10 years just one referendum? If you're satisfied, we'll paint all day long. Let's go, we got what we got, we don't have referendums we don't want and we finish the story. If we're not satisfied, let's ask ourselves whether we want to start a conversation, yes, that the Constitution is a different solution and that, consequently, we have some other solutions in the referendum law. That's the question. Of course we're opening up both content and metrically, which bothers us here. So how many times in this assembly have we talked about the number of voters that are our problem? Is it not fairer to define that the number of voters that should be signed so that, at all, a referendum initiative could start to define by an absolute number of 250,000. People don't discuss the percentage of what it is anymore. In one part, I'm absolutely much more into where when we sign, when we define the quorum of going out to talk about the absolute number, not to talk about the percentage, because we're always going to get into some problem that we won't be able to get out of. So that's the problem to talk about, and it seems to me that there should be an absolute number, not a percentage again. Whether or not we want and there's another topic that I have to open up is the Constitutional Court, do we want the role of the Constitutional Court not to be discretionary, that they are, in fact, arbitrarily deciding on some things, that the Constitutional Court, through its particular activism, be a substitute for the Constitution and the laws, regardless of when it plays a positive role. If that's what we want then I think that we should define which topics that can't be the subject of the referendum at all, and also that we should define and facilitate the situation when, when the questions of not having what we all had the bitter taste, imagine when 400,000 signatures you collect and then the Constitutional, which I appreciate that someone was able to collect according to Sodom and Gomorrah, bad weather, and then the Constitutional Court tells you that your question, that you've done it all, so you've done well, but it doesn't matter. A key question that we all need to ask ourselves. Do we actually want referendums in Croatia? Do we want the referendums to be just on certain issues? What do we want with referendums? Do we want these referendums when the citizens come out, so I'm not just talking about the initiative, but I'm talking about the real referendum being the will of the majority. No, a small number of times in this assembly we've all talked about how many votes anyone has received in the elections, how many, how many citizens have not come out to make it clear to the end, collect, so collect 400,000 signatures and a referendum can be called. You call a referendum on a very important issue, you get out 10,000 people in Croatia and 10,000 of them, half of them, so 5,000 of them, and let's say 3 make some important decisions. Imagine 5,003 people making a decision that we're coming out of the EU, now let me just say the thing right to the end. So if we had a problem with the referendum, if we wanted to define it, if we wanted the debate to open up, so no matter what we could do with what the metrics were. Unsatisfactory and say we're not going any further [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Then it's... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120247	We have two replicas of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120248	Dear MPs, the review of the issues that matter to us is very important and I'm glad you did it in such short time. As the first basis, we need to know clearly and loudly whether we want to have the possibility of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia. If we want such legal provisions, then, are not the ones that allow us to carry out such a referendum, so we need to change something. And I am pleased that if today's debate succeeds, we will come to the moment when we will finally be able to discuss this referendum and the conditions of the referendum all of us can speak openly, and I hope that in a few months or maybe a year after all the possible discussions of this law and these changes will be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120249	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120250	Thank you very much. I'd like to live, and I'd like to have some small action affecting us being a little more decent and a little more orderly state. And if by my political action, that's what I said, I'm trying to be reasonable in my politics, and that's how I'm gonna be in politics. If with that you can make one small, small shift or at least be one small, small pebble I would say that each of us should be then satisfied with its action. I don't experience that any of us acting in politics that it's his job to use jumpers, to use insults, that if you succeed as much as you can insinuate someone else that it's more successful for you, let's say it's you who voted and you voted for the penalty, then it's important that you have a video or how it's already called that after two days that the assembly and that we all sit here you come to the Assembly meeting It's a double standard to me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120251	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120252	Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, I ask you experiencedly. Do you think that since we are obviously opening some process of dialogue and debate about what we want to change and what we want to do with our Constitution that we are not just focusing on a referendum, the constitution does not change every year, but that all the topics that the Constitutional Court itself likes to call upon have been trying to bring into debate and impose on the government to implement them, that we are also covering these topics in this debate. You know what topics I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120253	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120254	Thank you, colleague Jaksic. I don't think we should open the subject of amending the Constitution unless we know clearly what's in it. If we have two initiatives at this point, and we have then the elemental democratic courtesy or parliamentary would be to discuss one and the other subject, so at the same session the same day, that they would be, they wouldn't even have to be united debates or to discuss both issues. Let's not valorize one topic, put the other one under the carpet. And that, among other things, is what I said in my replicator and I asked him why it's not so much more that we're talking about topics that are extremely important to our society. And I don't have any dilemmas about doing it with each other. I don't think we should take part in the blackmail phase, but I do, and so the weaker ones get worse. That we need to open up topics for discussion we need And how it's going to be, we'll see. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120255	Thank you, thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120256	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon, everyone. So, today is an open debate on the topic that brings us all together most recently during the Covid pandemic period when we have often called on the Constitutional Court, so there have been referendum initiatives, so the Constitutional Court has ruled on something, both in fashion and in this spirit, we have come to this debate today, this initiative and all of what we are doing together today through our sentences and our views. What we have said through several SDP discussions and through several replicas is that it is definitely if we are talking about the Constitution itself that it is not a document that we are going to change every 3 months and that it is also definitely that we all need to give ourselves a lot of effort and a lot of will to open a much wider and much deeper discussion and to see what points these are and in what way at these same points we can come to dialogue and afterwards come to a consensus because it is not just a matter of referendum that has proved to be something that we need to change and do differently there are still a few issues that have been discussed, which have been protested, which have been called the Constitutional Court. So I'm sorry that today we don't have a joint discussion or that today we're not talking about both of the two constitutional amendments because it would show one spirit of openness to talk, regardless of what might end up not agreeing about anything. It is something that would also contribute to trust within the parliamentary majority and opposition, but I also believe that it would contribute to citizens seeing in a slightly different way everything that we are discussing today and everything that is rounding up the public over the past period. It is obvious that when we talk about the referendum initiatives themselves that we need certain changes and that we simply need to see how we no longer have a discussion that someone was collecting something, and then that after that, it is suspected that the policy cannot lead to a referendum. There is our only normal defense and protection that we have clear defined conditions that we will agree on here and then there will be no more discussion about who the Constitutional Court loves or does not love. I also believe that today, but also before, we see how important it is that the Constitutional Court has a public and transparent approach to its work, the conditions for it exist, the regulations exist, and there are a lot of debates and a lot of disputes over the decisions of the Constitutional Court have come most of the way because it has turned out, I am now Caricing, of course it wasn't, but it turned out that decisions were made behind the fiercely closed doors and the maltene under cover of the night so that someone wouldn't hear or see what they're talking about or what they're discussing. It's also not a good way to go. What is certain is that SDP would like us to finally respect and what the Constitutional Court stated when we talk about women's rights to choice and finally define how and how in Croatia we will protect these women's rights. Just to draw attention to the ruling majority, it's not something that the SDP has now pulled out of its finger, it's ultimately something that it released as a recommendation in 2017, and the Constitutional Court to which the ruling majority likes to call when it suits them. They do this very often and often, and it exists in the documents of the Constitutional Court that we discussed. We think it's also one necessary civilization step to show that we're ready to protect women's rights. It would not be good if we did not respect neither the initiative nor the recommendations of the Constitutional Court because our colleague Bacic in the fall of concentration in a debate told us, not now on this subject, we have problems among ourselves and we do not want to talk about it. That's not an answer and that's not the answer. We also have recommendations from the Constitutional Court concerning the Election Law, our election units, riots in the voters' lists, we have seen and now in the census, and then by the number of health insurance companies, by the number of voters, how many holes there are, and how much of this is wrong, and it would also be very useful for citizens to trust in the electoral process to respect what the Constitutional Court stated and to discuss with the opposition and those who are willing to sit down together and to see what we can do better and better in preparation for constitutional changes. Without talking, without dialogue, without being willing, perhaps to take a step back sometime, I'm afraid we won't realize what we should all want together for the sake of this country and our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120257	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120258	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. So as Croatian sovereigns, we have already expressed our position on several occasions. What I appreciate is that we should repeat, or touch what we are not so far, is one fact that in the first proposals actually put on one repressive character, one hostile style towards initiatives, people's initiatives that have a legitimate need to express their views, use constitutional rights to directly decide the issues they are interested in. And so I can't be taken away from that impression, and I see many colleagues in the assembly, and particularly out-of-parliamentary that this whole proposal, a set of laws that you have proposed, directs somehow with a terrible doubt about the reasonableness of the Croatian people in the referendum initiatives, into the motivation of this, such procedures, and that you are the guardians of democracy, at all costs, to do everything, any possibility that, by chance, you said there, would question the stability of a democratic society in Croatia, the tension, so as not to bring yourself into Croatia, and to protect the financial situation of the organisational board that we don't spend a lot of money, I have participated in these referendum initiatives several times, so I know what I'm talking about. Well, please don't worry like that. We all have enough reason to know and have a natural one, one leader, one compass, we know very well, all of us, the Croatian public, which is in accordance with the general principles of the Constitution. Which is consistent with the values of our constitutional order. However, no, you doubt that, and in the law on the proposed referendum law, you have worked so hard to really limit every grass of democracy, every attempt to raise the head of the Croatian people to say something new about some of their rights or wishes or attitudes that you have limited there first, means a referendum initiative, you have introduced a record of the referendum initiatives of the DIP in... But that DIP is already in control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After putting in a hundred terms, that referendum initiative about volunteers, about collecting signatures, about the collection of signatures, about a series of details, personal data, etc., you put authority, watch out for now, HS, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, to start by saying his position and putting it in the People's Journal, please, 8 days before this initiative goes by, if you accidentally profiled the Constitutional Court or someone else disables it. You put in, however, and the possibility of a board of protourendum initiatives, on the contrary, that's against the Venice team, the good rules of Venice, is, it's the opposite. He must not be put against this initiative. The Protureendum Initiative has the opportunity to express its position, however, but not in this institutionalised way it can do so before, during time, but not at the same level as the Committee. Then it's not the end. You have prescribed a form, whether this is all in the context of constitutional changes, a form that the DIP puts to collect signatures. That form, 24 hours before he puts it, will have to be organised in 24 hours, 300, 400 thousand, as it will be printed, printed, how it will be divided, and you only gave 30 to 45 days to hold the referendum, and so on. And worse, imagine, when, now that we've been through all this and the DIP has given permission to go into signings, then you've put on, watch out for one provision, that we can't go ahead, no less than 30 days to collect signatures. We're going to get acidified for 30 days, so we're doing everything we can to motivate Croatian citizens, to come, to then, when we get all the permission, now wait 30 days. Well, I mean, what's that for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120259	... We have one replica, Honorable Agent Davor Ivo Stier. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I only answered because today this Venice Commission has been mentioned several times, and I'm also a member of this, the Committee for the Democratic Elections of the Venice Commission, so I went to the document. I don't see what you said was against it, and during the debate, it has been said several times that the Venice Commission says there should be no quorum or qualified majority in referendums. However, I looked right at the text of the Venice Commission and it says, when it comes to constitutional categories, then it says it is acceptable to have a special quorum prescribed and qualified majority, therefore, the Venice Commission is mentioned many times today, but unfortunately mostly wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120261	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120262	You have referred to only one provision, recommendations from the Venice Commission regarding amendments to the Constitution and I agree, they said, the rule of law, parliament, etc., in these circumstances requires a quorum of decision, not everyone else. Therefore, let us not go in this, the general principles and recommendations of the Venice Commission are to go in favors. So let's not do everything, and everything you've done, we're collecting signatures for the president, for local elections, for parliamentary deputies, anywhere, by boards, by workplaces, by public surfaces, and here these signatures are exclusively there di says this local administration and self-government police in detail. It doesn't make sense, don't do it. It's for you, too. Is that all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120263	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120264	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I go from the end. We can, the Bridge, the SDP, the Workers' Front, the Voice, etc. are each other's tokens, tokens, tokens, whatever they call it. So they're all actually universes here, together against these constitutional changes. Right? Only everyone has a different initiative, or motivation, and maybe not. Or maybe there isn't. If you noticed in the debate of our esteemed leftists, let's call them progressives, although they're actually behind us, their biggest problem here is that the proposal for constitutional change won't do what they want, which is so-called. Right to abortion because HDZ doesn't want it. Now, they're gonna try to do it in every way they can actually force HDZ to put it on, but that still, as far as I can tell, won't go. And there's actually a problem, and everything else to the SDP actually fits. Now, I don't understand the Bridge. If they gave some ideological moratorium, and here they hold a ladder to the SDP or the Workers' Front or the Foreigners We can!, are they actually for the same constitutional changes proposed by the SDP? Or maybe there's some other game I don't see? The only conclusion that I can draw from those discussions that I have heard today is that this whole progressive opposition is a bridge, the Workers' Front, the Centre, the Voice, the SDP, etc., that they are all in favour of putting into the Constitution and the right to abortion. A little while ago, a colleague here said wrongly, the Constitutional Court didn't say that a real abortion was put into the Constitution. He didn't say. There was mentioned some right to privacy that no one really has any idea what it is, not a constitutional category at all, in the Constitution is not mentioned as such at all. Now, let's go, let's move on. Now, the key question is why did HDZ go with these constitutional changes at the moment. Now it's my enigma because with this actually HDZ got, he gave one chance to the team from the bridge to continue to paralyze on the referendums, and I responsibly argue and I'm going to repeat now that they are the main cemeteries of the referendum initiatives in Croatia. Head gravediggers. So with a stupid referendum, the People decided for which they had no idea what they were collecting signatures for, they destroyed a quality referendum that would shake the Croatian referendum on Istanbul, and they prayed to God and did everything possible to avoid our referendum against, or to protect the Croatian Kuna. Now, perhaps the only reason HDZ wants to do so is because in that timeline a little too much of the SDP's referendum initiative and that the right to abortion is disabled as a referendum category, to be put in place, implemented in the Constitution. If that's what HDZ's up to, then you'll have my support. Then they'll have my support. If it isn't, then I don't know what it is, I hope that with this referendum, in fact, I would have rushed these constitutional changes precisely because of the right to abortion which is a world-class topic cannot be a referendum that can't be decided on in a referendum, especially that it can't be placed as a category in the Croatian Constitution. Now, are we ever going to find out what intensity was, it doesn't matter, as long as there's a chance that we, through the amendments to the Constitution, protect at least a little right to life I'm going to be for these constitutional changes with it and at least to touch one dry metricum, and that's the meaning of the Proposal for a decision on the accession of constitutional change, I'm sorry I'm reading wrong, about the change of the Constitution here says simply, clearly and I don't know who it's not clear to. So far, we should have collected nearly 400,000 signatures, I've collected them many times, I've stepped a politician through the referendum initiatives, and we'll only have to do 250,000 under this proposal. So far we've had to do it in two weeks, from now we'll be able to do it in four weeks. And what's the problem? And so far, the Constitutional Court has decided whether or not it's constitutional or not, and from now on, only this one from now on, as far as I can see, in that first stage, that people don't collect signatures for nothing, but that they can adapt the question to what the Constitutional Court says. Here's so much on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120265	You have several replicas, the first to honor Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120266	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic, that you do not know how to define the concept of a coin seriously, I do not take it seriously. So you're saying that, that we can chip it to SDP, we can do it to GLAS, here's the Workers' Front, and vice versa, because together we're resisting limiting the possibility of conducting national referendums. It's called the opposition. And the chip is the one that was chosen as an opposition, and he went over to vote and defend most of it to you, which is Mr. Zekanovic's token, and your name and last name in the dictionary will stand as an explanation of the concept of a token. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120267	Dear fellow Bencic, here I am first glad that at least in the upper part you are properly dressed that you didn't come and this time in your mother's bedroom, I'm glad that you've done a little work on the clothes, but also slowly you'll find for the rest, I think you should put it in the Rules of Procedure, but here I'm glad you've made progress here. So, colleagues liked it either as much as you can, as you take yourself to call someone who supports the ruling majority, I didn't support her until now in any legal proposal chip. So, take, take Madame dear, for the right to have someone call you in the same way. So, you're all chipped among yourselves and you're preparing the right tokenisation for the next election when you're going along with your colleague Miletic here it's great there means our conservative Marin Miletic is together with you in his mother to go to the spa tomorrow to go to the elections or he'll co-ordinate pre-election and even in that case, if he verifys it with the public notary that he won't do it because he'll do it. It's a tokenization and you're in Can Mostu actually party In fact, the party to the token, or [[Intruder: Time.]] It's a token. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120268	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first to honor Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120269	Dear Vice President, this is the repeated insult of parliamentary deputies solely on the basis of their appearance and clothing. Except that it's an insult I must now express your concern about your obsession with my T-shirts on decks, with badecosts, and what you've already listed here, I'd ask you to refrain from the public if anything else, and you're being treated in private.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120270	Okay, you use this as a replica, you get a warning, and you tell him he's obsessed, and he tells you you don't have a T-shirt on a deck, so that's hard. You can, a little. [[Intruder: Can I harm the Rules of Procedure too?]] Is the next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120271	For the vice president, I actually have a suggestion. So Article 240 specifically tells you that a reminder by taking away a word is given to a representative who insults and now lists himself to whom everything can be insulted, including sexual, gender, and other groups. This is a typical example of discrimination and insult in the matter of gender, gender. So you can't let that happen, you have to react to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120272	Well, I didn't realize it that way, maybe it's about fashion details, she tells him he's obsessed, he tells her he's in his mother or he's not his mother, so I don't know. All right, next violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honor Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120273	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 has been injured by colleagues Zekanovic and by you. A colleague of Zekanovic insulted certain colleagues, and it would be good if you would warn him of his colleague Zekanovic and explain to him that it is more important to bring his brain and spine to the Croatian Parliament than a long pair of sleeves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120274	You estimate it's not your insult to tell your colleague to bring his brain, please, you get a warning about those words. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120275	So, honourable Vice President of course, 238, first I have to tell my esteemed colleague Bencic, don't flatter yourself you're not my type. So don't flatter yourself you're not my type. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120276	That's already, please colleague, colleague Zekanovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120277	...I don't know I've called you with a colleague but I don't know if you're a colleague or a colleague at all. I don't know wait this is native, native and fluid, I'm not saying I, I'll assume she's a colleague, it's quite fluid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120278	Comrade Zekanovic, you are now being warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120279	And why, what, what's weird about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120280	And because it was already an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120281	So now what can be both, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120282	That speech about fashion details one, this was an insult you get a warning. ... Please don't threaten me, don't threaten me, I've said a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, no, good. Replica, dear Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120283	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic thinks that sometimes the color of anything is eaten than anything to say I think this last one was wrong, you were wrong, and this one I understand that you can also be an effect, etc., that you can answer someone's question in your own way, but this really wasn't right for your colleagues. And now I'm going to be on the line, as to why we came into this story of amendments to the Constitution when we talk about the matter of the referendum, because we did the first reading of the referendum law and here, unisonally, unanimously, the need arose, or the pronunciation we have to settle that question properly, nothing else, just that. And we got into it, we talked about it for months, we came up with the text in front of the MPs, and we want support for it to work it out, but everything else started to come up except that question. Why do those who wanted to force it now not want to, obviously they like to be guided by one who says better not to settle anything than to settle what we can settle, and that's here in this matter of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120285	Dear colleague Boric, such as yourself, to answer something that was not the subject of my debate, I will answer to you. So, dear colleague Boric here you have noticed that from the left you will often hear and insult such as taking brains and fools and ridicles and it is actually tolerated. When I told my colleague I know that she was a female colleague, I suggested what she was really all along her agenda that the stork was fluid, so in that context when they attacked me that I had something against the female or gender I was just actually going to mock them that she had never declared herself, and it was an agenda that she actually constantly wanted to implement that the stork was fluid and that it could be determined at any moment. Unfortunately, hers here is like I said it's not my type so in that sense she can be absolutely calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120286	Next individual debate, respected Marijan Pavliček, since there is no Peovic and Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120287	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I think that my colleague Zekanovic has exaggerated, that he's really gone too far now and we can be ourselves, and we can argue about the style of dress but someone offending whether someone is male or female, I think you've really gone too far and I think we should think a little sooner or later about drinking a glass of water than you start talking. Here's to being honest. But we're back to these important topics. Namely, these proposed amendments to the Constitution and as constitutional law of the Constitutional Court are essentially not changing anything. The Institute of Referendum in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately a dead letter on paper. In the last 30 years, we have had as the promoter himself says in all 3 referendums, 2 mandatory one on Croatian independence, the other on the accession of the EU Republic and the third on behalf of one association, and that is the referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage. It just shows how so far the Institute's referendum worked in real life. With these proposed changes, nothing will change in particular. On the one hand, it is said that the number of signatures of potentials is reduced, but on the other hand we have the Pharaohic powers of a political body called the Constitutional Court, which can literally declare any referendum issue at the very beginning unconstitutional because it enters into direct powers or questions of the government, the president of the state or the assembly, or it affects minorities or some other general human issues. A very broad concept that we all know to the Constitutional Court that the choice is given an extremely high authority. We all know this country is based on three pillars of government. It's executive power, it's legislative authority, and it's judgmental authority. With these proposed changes, this balance is disrupted. In this case, the Constitutional Court gets abnormally large powers, and it is about people who do not have electoral legitimacy, who are elected here by political agreement, two, three or more political options and who will always or in most cases work in the interest of the ruling majority whether they are left or right, and this is a big mistake in this whole story, not to talk about introducing a voting quorum that is very difficult to meet especially in times where, in general, Croatian citizens are not motivated by politics, political topics and so on to come out for both elections and referendum initiatives. I hope that the ruling majority will not accept the proposals of the left liberal option and that the Constitution will not enter the right to kill innocent children because then the result of all of this would be two murders. And that's killing a referendum and the will of citizens and killing a child in the womb of a mother. And we can't afford that. We will not as the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns support this because I believe that definitely the Institute of the Referendum will continue to remain as so far a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120288	Here are two replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120289	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavlikek, I am pleased that you have returned to the point in your debate because today we are talking about a very important topic, and it is not good to go to some waters leading to triviality and even re-orculating this extremely important topic. What I'm interested in is your opinion and attitude regarding how much it makes sense to get into any kind of change while we have the voters' register as it is and when we have 3 million and 600,000 voters in the register, although the last census has shown that we are no more than 3 million and 900 thousand people, so the question is where are your imaginary some unreal voters, who votes in our elections, and when it comes to collecting signatures, then it's a very big one. The number. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120290	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120291	I agree with you, colleague Vucilović, but unfortunately this is another story from Croatia in the 21st century, a time of information that we are unable to have the right number of voters, that we have almost the same number of voters as the number of people. That's one thing. In addition, we believe that when constitutional changes are already being made, then they must be comprehensive. So we have made it clear and clear that we would support the amendments to the Constitution on one condition, which is that a separate item is inserted into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where the powers of MPs from the ranks of national minorities will be precisely defined, or that they can vote on anything other than government or individual minister or non-trust, because we already know that, in accordance with current positive electoral laws for national minorities, they have guaranteed mandates at the beginning and that for years the government depends on 8 pre-secured representatives of national minorities, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120292	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120293	A respected colleague listens to Prime Minister and Minister Tramišak who says Slavonia, Baranja flourished, as more and more people return and then approximately so is this referendum by analogy. So, we who have passed these villages there see that every other house is empty, that people are in big trouble, that the poor are everywhere. So also here, they say it will make the referendum easier to implement, let us make it clear to the Croatian people. This in figures means how much, that the secretary of state will have to come out today, again politically, I forest him by road whether he is already going, how many Croatian citizens will have to come out, put his signature on to succeed. The data is here we've heard millions and 200,000 people. So, it's only if Papa Franjo was organizing a referendum that wouldn't work, I'm the only one who doesn't know who does. So, I don't know which rock group, I don't know how a referendum under these conditions can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120294	I agree, I agree with you, and what you said is not only about empty houses but the bigger problem is that the population that remains in Slavonia is an extremely old population. Unfortunately, this population is not able to get out of its own village almost, let alone go and launch certain referendum initiatives or support them. And like you said, nothing's gonna change with this. Time will unfortunately show if this is voted out that in the next 30 years as well as in the previous 30 we will not have a maximum of one to two successful referendum initiatives, which means that there is only one here on this paper and in real life not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120295	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120296	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues in this document which they had before them are said to have been authorised by the Constitutional Court to declare a referendum inadmissible if the contents of the referendum question do not comply with the general principles and the highest values of the constitutional order set out in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution. And I've been wondering all along, and I've also set up a replica, which are actually topics that are also said to be defined for which a referendum cannot be called. The interpretation mentions what goes into the part-round assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the President of the Republic of Croatia, but is not precisely defined. Some countries have specifically prescribed topics that cannot be decided in the referendum. When you look at the web mentioned by constitutional experts, so what topics would be real estate tax, physical policy, customs, VAT reduction, commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to international contracts, declaration of war to another country, search for capital punishment, outsourcing, monetization of highways, provoking early elections, changes in the political system, etc. In any case, the Ombudsman points out that human or minority rights should be taken into account. When I set up a replica of my colleague, Bosnjakovic, he also did not know what exactly defined topics were, but in any case he thinks he should leave room for the Constitutional Court, but then again we wonder if the Constitutional Court will have too much power. So we don't have defined topics that can be discussed, can't be discussed, so the question seems right to me. The next thing, we have submitted our proposal to amend the Constitution which, of course, HDZ did not accept, and I see that it is constantly wrong to say what we wanted in addition to or amending the Constitution. So we want to add, in Article 63, paragraph 2 that reads, a colleague should listen because he is constantly disfellowshipped, so a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth. The State shall provide assumptions for the exercise of that right. So the presumption of a birth decision does not necessarily mean how a colleague says murder of children, does not involve just abortion. I remind you of a medical plan to give birth to children. So of course you have different methods of preventing conception, but you have normal and abortion, you have oral contraceptives, you have medically assisted fertilization, you have in vitro fertilization for which many gynecologists also have an appeal of conscience, they don't just have to abortion. I'm sure we'll talk about it a little bit more later. If we don't bring all this together into the amendments to the Constitution which HDZ refuses to guarantee that today's decision by some majority will not make any changes that happened in America after a few decades. Who can guarantee that? For the proposal of the Law on Medical Procedure, the pregnancy that we discussed a few months ago if I am not mistaken, and I think I am not wrong because I have now checked the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been manifested at all, and on the other hand the interpretation of why not this one of ours, this requirement to change the Constitution mass with the information you have everything in the Constitution. Well, I've really looked at this book a lot of times, and I really don't know where it says in the Constitution what we're looking for, so it's decoded that someone can't deny it. And the question that I'm asking myself, what exactly are my HDZ colleagues up to? How did they imagine we would change the Constitution? So the fact is that the Constitution doesn't change every little bit, the fact that we want to change it in some elements, refreshed, but then how do they intend to do it? So, our proposals are not accepted, they want us to accept theirs. So it's not a question of any trade or blackmail. I've never dealt with it, but it's a matter of some honest approach and an answer to the question, do we really want a better constitution? Now, here are two initiatives, let's say for the amendment to the Constitution, and then I wonder how they imagined it to accomplish some kind of majority. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120297	We have a replica, a respected Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120298	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Maric, constitutional law experts say that when it comes to the referendum, there are three key things. So it's the time to collect signatures, the number of signatures, but also what you've dedicated your individual debate to, and these are topics on which the referendum can't actually be called. This, as you have stated, and here I agree with you, is mentioned here, so the part-round work of the assembly, the government, the president, and then we really have to ask ourselves what are the topics on which a referendum can be called at all, if we rule out everything that is in the work of these three institutions that are mentioned. So here's what I'm wondering what you're thinking with this proposal is it making it easier to carry out a referendum or is it completely impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120299	Thank you very much, so I'm saying here I was really watching it in some other countries where certain topics are explicitly prescribed. And I'm asking myself a question, I'm not a lawyer, here, but at least I can read something, what you're saying and you and I have said and during the debate, we really don't know to what extent and to what extent the Constitutional Court is actually going to take some power. And the question at all is what kind of referendum we're going to be able to call as a people. So honestly, I'm a little skeptical about this, and if you define exactly what the topics would be, then that's another thing. So we should, of course, talk about it, but at this point it seems a little blurry to me, here's the gray zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120300	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned colleagues about the referendum that you have looked at regulations in other European countries the comparative methodology is fine, but if we apply it to this other issue that you said, the birthright, then we see that almost no EU member states have that in the Constitution. So, if we're going to be congenital then we have to say that if we look at what the standard is, what are the constitutions of the EU member states, it's mostly not in the constitution, it's not a constitutional category. There is a right to life, there is a right to privacy that means that the state does not interfere at certain times, leaves it to individuals, but this right as it was in the socialist constitution of this Croatia does not have the majority of European states.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120302	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120303	Thank you very much. I asked the question, but I also made a point that when we talked about the Law on Medical Law, if the termination of pregnancy was not manifested at all. Right? So she didn't consider herself worthy of giving her opinion at all. The second thing, I also asked, knowers who are greater acquaintances in a legal sense than me, where exactly defined in the Constitution and guaranteed that what happened in America would not happen after decades. So, we have here in Article 1 well write that the foundations of the Constitution are, among other things, gender equality, which we see is not exactly in practice from unequal salaries, unequal treatment, insults which we bear from both colleagues Prkačin and colleagues of Zekanovic, so there are a lot of things that, which should actually be followed by what they write in the Constitution, and they do not come true. So, I didn't find it here. Decided by what it says. [[Intruder: Time.]] Why don't we be better than the others?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120304	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120305	The referendum is changed in the Constitution. Is he down there? ... Well, I think it'd be better here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would just continue to mean the referendum was fairer if you said there was no referendum, that you said we were erasing the referendum and there is no referendum because this way you have now made, this way you have now essentially sent a message that Bačić's best man, Sheparovic, along with a drunk with Seks, will make decisions about the referendum. I think it's time for a referendum on the referendum. I invite them to all initiatives, citizens' associations to finally launch a referendum on the referendum and that the people define it, if you can cut it down a bit here just for the sake of it, a referendum on the referendum. Why? Because this way and this process where we have to have a 1/3-choice quorum is impossible to reach and then you have no one here legitimacy or me who has received more than 10,000 preferential votes. Who are we representing here? Who are we representing here? Do we represent the interests of the people at this time or the interests of this gentleman here who is behind this noise, I have no idea what this is about because instead of running a session, he would ask that both Mr. Bukarica and Mr. Sanader be silenced. The referendum and the constitution are connected, people's entire lives are fighting for democracy and constitution, only God is above it and when we talk about it then the constitution doesn't change this way, and the people will pass it by and there's no right to Šeparović, neither Bačić nor, neither, nor Boric nor, I don't know who decides on Komin which issue will be constitutional. Well, you've made this country a banana state, full of crisis, so you've introduced these command measures that have led to the level that, if people didn't know, they were at each other's house, and while you were hugging and kissing on ships, as you hugged at pre-election meetings, at celebrations, so you're talking about a referendum, you're gravediggers of the referendum, you're gravediggers of the referendum. And it's even more painful what, during the rabbits, heroes who are so brave here compare for example. Me and the others here, Bridge and I don't know who with anyone, and besides that, imagine a bunny telling you one of your wives in public you're not my type. I don't have to agree with anyone, I greatly appreciate women, we may not agree in the most cases, but this behavior of those chips that were bought with sinacurams in the local elections, with the syncures is disastrous, the only thing they've been given obsessively is the task of having this referendum, haven't you been to the referendums before me, peek at me. I wonder here that there is no Djakic, that there is no Deura, those defenders who have defended the country and said, so don't pass, don't do this, don't steal the constitution, don't be, don't be the gravediggers of democracy and the constitution for which you fought Mr. Boric, there are none, why there are no Deura, why there isn't no Deura here and... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120306	Please don't argue from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120307	You're nervous again, and then you insult women as they dress. When a suit makes a man, the main theme suit, so long ago it's written that a suit doesn't make a man, unfortunately we just look at people through suits, just watch how we're dressed, how we're written, and you're shutting down democracy. You won't get away with it, I'll tell you that you won't get away with it, it won't get away with it, at least now I'll just tell you one parallel. What you did to the people around the water that you tried to put in the constitution, water, you tribal water put in the constitution and protect, not 500% of the accumulated electrical energy at your crown of Peronja which was mayor, I know it well, behind it was Sanader or Ževrna, and he sends the orders to the waterworks of the Cetina region did they collect HEP which is our people's property, 500%. It won't happen to you, it doesn't have to be mayor, come to Sinjian alka, come to Sinj Alka and look the people in the eyes as you light the dark, as you take their referendum, so you've been passing the referendum here to join the EU, to get in less than 50% of the people, if a single man had passed the referendum, and now what do you impose? You force Sheparovic to decide on me and the people. The Constitutional Court of the Triba suspended immediately after what it did to our referendum, which the people gathered on the headquarters measures, be ashamed of what you are doing. You have abolished democracy. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120308	The individual next debate is the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120309	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So democracy was generally thought to die in front of pipes of cannons in revolutions and in coups. Today, unfortunately, it is much more likely that they will be slowly extinguished in the name of the people. Parliamentary democracy is a fine mechanism that has been effective and just requires a lot of compromises, dialogues, alignments, arguments, and sometimes even discounts. In the Republic of Croatia, we have an unregulated referendum framework that serves only to ask citizens under quotes, which leads to our democracy in fact in danger of being killed by political demagogues who represent themselves as the only and true leader of the people and who neglect the constitutional structure of freedom, parliamentary democracy, control of courts and restrictions, which is very important to highlight the restrictions that are brought into direct contact with the decision of the electoral body. In Croatia, the referendums so far do not lead to any compromises, no phillingar agreements, but actually depend only on who gets the vote more. The referendums, unfortunately, are increasingly used in Europe and Croatia to make certain decisions that cannot be passed in parliament. It is claimed that there must be no obstacle to the rule of the people and there is already a kind of referendum in which the referendum directly connects to mania. The Republic of Croatia has long been threatened by such threats by political groups that are extremely opposed to government policies, starting with Catholic conservatives and other various populists. It is precisely thanks to the inadequate regulation of the referendum on civil initiatives, where no quorum is spoken of, but the decision is taken by the majority of those who vote, there are precisely possibilities for manipulation of huge, okay, population is derived from the people and this is the basis of its legitimacy and the criteria of action. In sociology, populism marks ideas and social movements that opposed the domination of elites, and represent an improvement in the socioeconomic position of middle and lower classes. Often, this strategy of destroying an institutional apparatus and creating an effective system was generally guided by a single leader of a nation. In particular, the Croatian model of an unregulated referendum which makes the provision of art. Article 87(4) of the Constitution concerning the provision of Article 5 of the same constitutional article under which the decision is to be taken. According to the key provision of St. 4. adopted and in force in 2010, the referendum is decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum and such a decision is mandatory. It is, of course, necessary to point out the differences between the requirements therefore set out by the development of democracy and populism. Democracy marks the elaborated system based on the election of political responsibility and the restriction of the government that really seeks participation in the wider circle of citizens in political decision-making and therefore retains the institutions of direct democracy, in the first place the referendum but which must be clearly defined. In Croatia there is a problem and the state of education and so on. The education fama for a life where in fact this life of ours we identify with STEM education which seriously threatens the development of social humanistic sciences. This is the problem of the Croatian European and modern state in which civic education, basic education for democratic decision-making is not introduced and God asks when it will be introduced, and the polls that you can see and the knowledge of freshmen for years suggest an extremely worrying state of knowledge of history, politics and constitutional rights in graduates even in elite high schools. So far, the practice of the referendum through the so-called Contaminated populism was actually a manipulation and prejudice towards minorities, a potential conflict in order to engage a larger mass of people on persuasion issues, to launch mass propaganda, to untrue news, and actually to push citizens into camp us or them. In economic terms, this has led to the promise of some problems that cannot be solved, to build a wall, for economic, sociological and political problems are not solved by cement, iron, or armature. Once again, I will say that the SDP wanted in 2013, and HDZ did not want from exactly why it is necessary to create a more sophisticated framework that will protect minorities, where some things will be entered into the Constitution and will actually allow most to affirm their goals and interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120310	Next is the individual debate of the respected Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120311	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are on the first step of three to try to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia after 10 years, which is not any law that we are used to changing some of them unfortunately, even once a year, and thus even pour legal uncertainty into the system itself, at least those of which these same laws concern. When it comes to constitutional changes and when we decide for them, and we see that it doesn't happen so often, then we need to look at things wider and we need to set things up in such a way that they're better because if we make them worse, then it's better that we don't touch anything and we don't touch it. I think the majority opinion in this Croatian Parliament is that it is necessary to change the system for the referendum, but I also hope that the majority view of this assembly is that these changes must be better. And we're open to that, but not just that. If in the environment we have countries like Hungary and Poland where the unprecedented impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms occurs, if we have an American who is perceived as a cradle of democracy and human rights in which the unfavorable events of the last few months occur, then we must do everything in our country when we have the opportunity to protect and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of that opportunity. I think it's this opportunity. There is no stronger place to protect and improve human rights and fundamental freedoms than the Republic of Croatia. And our position is the progressive opposition that at this point, we can't go through without it. And those who claim that the American scenario cannot happen to us and that our law is secure and that the constitutionally unlicensed women's right to choose and make a free decision about the birth of children, I certainly don't advise you to deceive the Croatian public. The law we have today, and most in this assembly allow some structures to obstruct it and prevent its implementation, was passed in '78. The year is based on the constitutional value of the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, which says the woman has the right to choose. The law continued on a constitutional basis that existed in the present constitution. In 2022, there is no constitutional provision. The Americans did not have it either, so the interpretation of the constitution and the right of the woman to abortion stemmed from some legally prescribed constitutional right to privacy, 73 was called upon to do so. The Supreme Court in America, our Constitutional Court in 2017 was called upon to do so. And Ruth Bader, judge of the Supreme Court, has warned the feminists for years that this decision of '73. The Supreme Court's climate is because it is not based on constitutional right to vote, but on constitutional right to privacy. The constitutional right to privacy was based on our Constitutional Court. So let's not wait for the circumstances to change and for what happened in America to be under Trump's pressure to make this one decisive and decisive vote to decide on the fate of millions of women in America but only to do right and only positive for our women in Croatia, which is that we guarantee it with the constitution and I expect that this first step will be a step that will not be closed just to what you suggested in the draft but to take into account some other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120312	You have several replicas, the first respected Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120313	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you're absolutely right. If we look at other countries, it is evident that we do not smoke cold but that when we advocate that women's rights to choice are protected in the constitution, then we advocate the defence of something that is in many countries, but also in the United States, Poland or Hungary being questioned, and if it could have happened there, then there is a danger that something similar will happen in Croatia and if we have tools and mechanisms to prevent such a situation from happening to us then our duty, our duty, our duty, and I will even say the sacred duty to prevent it, the tool we have, and it is up to us to use it. But what I don't understand is that we have one political party, it's right of you who nominally advocates that it is the right to protect itself, and does not want to install it into that act that is best for the protection of all rights, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120314	Replication response, breach of the Rules of Procedure, pardon, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 232, and you hurt him because the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. My colleague Glasovac talked about everything but the point that is here, and we are talking about amendments to the constitution regarding the implementation of the referendum, and I can see that, in that tone, my colleague Grbin also continued to do so, and you did not mention them, nor did you mention a colleague of the Glasovac, nor did you mention a colleague of the Grbins.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120316	Okay, you're right, but that's what a lot of people do, so if we introduced that practice, we'd interrupt them all. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120317	Thank you. Comrade Grbin, you see, I have devoted a great deal of my debate to what I think should be the theme of changing the constitution along with these improvements if they are possible in the referendum system itself. You're absolutely right about one thing very important. We representatives here are between not only the legislative body but also the representative and to listen to any Croatian citizens who, in more than 70%, say that we should protect women's right to vote in the constitution, even if we had to hold a referendum, then we would talk a lot more about this subject today, and we would not close the door through this kind of draft, and we would pretend that we are open to discussions on changes alone... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120318	The next replica of the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120319	Thank you. Do you guys think that the social climate, for example, is now mentioned by America, that maybe it's different from the social climate that ruled Europe I'm going to say, in the '30s or '40s that actually allowed both Nazism and fascism to rule one area? Some of the things that you mentioned and that happened in America because they were not clearly defined, certain, I will call them, even social dogs, and I will list them, and that should first of all protect minority rights, and therefore women's rights to choices that have never been included in some constitutional acts, do you think the social climate can't change just like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120320	Thank you, fellow Doncic. Well, I think that in America, the social climate is completely different from what a handful of males have allowed themselves to decide on behalf of women and defile their rights, and that is what I see a great similarity with Croatia, which is also the social climate in Croatia so that more than 70% of Croatian citizens feel that women have the right to choose and make a free decision about birth, but that in politics there is no courage among males and there is no power to hear it and to behave in accordance with such a social climate. The fact that it is allowed to be declared is also supported by the fact that the law that states that a woman today has certain rights allows for years to be obstructed through the health system and systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120321	Time. Dear Andreja Maric, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120322	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I must correct my colleague Vucilović, we are in the topic because the subject is called the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Republic of Croatia, where there is nowhere to write only about the referendum, so we are talking about amendments to the constitution, which is proposed by colleagues, which we suggest, etc.. It's not worse to repeat more times, I've talked about it, you've talked about it, so what we want in ours, is our motions for change, so we want a sentence, a woman has the right to freely and independently decide about birth, the state provides assumptions for the exercise of that right. What is so controversial to me is really not clear, are these methods of prevention of conception, different things exist, and that's where AB enters, are oral contraceptives, medically assisted insemination, IVF, which is controversial? I don't think it's anything controversial, is it spite or are they actually afraid of their constituents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120323	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120324	I'm not going into what's controversial here, but we're also talking about the Law on the right to terminate pregnancy and the obstruction of the existing law, and we're saying that in the ruling majority, or HDZ, there's an unprecedented cowardice, which is worse than being determined, even if you're doing bad things. Cowardice is 10 times worse than that. What I see as a problem in this first step is lies and deception. All morning we've been hearing from the promoters here that this is the first step, we're just opening talks on changing the Constitution, we'll see, we'll agree, it's a process, and then this draft is set up by the Gabarites. We're being put in a cage where de facto is being sent a message that either you'll accept what we've suggested along with some little maybe alterations, but just stick to the strict referendum or there's none of it. That's what I see as a key problem. That's what we don't agree to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120325	And the last replica, the esteemed Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120326	I haven't listened to a funnier debate in a long time than my colleague Voter's debate. She talks about the HDZ putting her in a cage with what was proposed, and her club president announces he will vote on Friday for what was proposed. So, first, you deal with yourself and the club what you think of what HDZ has suggested. And secondly, when you talk about males, if you vote for this, you will give these men, Šeparovic, Mlakar and others the right to decide on every referendum issue before the signatures begin. And if you're not such hypocrites as you seem to be, I'm asking you a question, will you go to the signing collection in the fall and collect them by the old rules or by this one you'll vote for on Friday when you're going to vote for this cage that HDZ has prepared for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120327	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120328	Thank you, dear Vice President. He was injured in Article 238, calling the debate of Vice President Glasovac a funny one, especially when he comes from the mouth of a colleague who was supposed to be at his workplace in the assembly, and then shoots funny videos as suddenly travels to Zagreb to save the people instead of being in his workplace where he should have been since Monday. So that you are summed up with yourself And then you say, [[Intruder: Time.]] others. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120329	You're getting a warning. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120330	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, that at least a colleague of Mirela Ahmetovic has stood up, regardless of how many attitudes we share, is a fair woman and can also give a doctor, and someone who steals 50,000 kunas doesn't report them, and even today we don't know who he paid the money to, he gives a representative who's about 12 times more active than he is, and even when he's from Peđa, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120331	Okay, you're getting a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120332	You find it funny what happens in America and what I'm talking about is that we need to do everything to avoid the American scenario, and that scenario is that millions of women are currently left without a key and fundamental right to choose to decide what they're going to do with their body. That's funny to you? What will those who have money go to implement their decision in action in other countries in America, and those who do not will go to the black market and endanger their lives and their health. You think that's funny? I'm sad that you've qualified yourself with this comment in a group of these males who so easily call women's subjects and women's human rights ridiculous. [[Intruder: No, you will vote on Friday for the HDZ proposal.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120333	Following is an individual debate of the respected Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120334	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution does not change every day, does not change every year, does not change every mandate. It is rarely changed, so once its amendments have been approached, it is reasonable to do a serious, systematic analysis and to discuss all the issues that are being regulated by the Constitution, which are important for this society, and you will agree that everyone here is present that, apart from the question of the referendum, there are still other issues that are being addressed by the Constitution, which, regardless of which political option, would all of you have been slightly redefined in accordance with today's time, in accordance with the possibility of the functioning of this Constitution. Many times already here, many provisions of the Constitution have been highlighted, from the fact that some of the provisions in reality do not work at all, such as fundamental human rights, to the fact that the co-creation of foreign policy between the government and the president of the state does not work. There is a problem and a list of voters, election units and other details that are or may be an obstacle to the functionality of the Constitution in terms of contributing to the development of our young seems still too young democracy. It is precisely the fact that the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as submitted by 92 signatories, restricted it to the amendment of the Constitution only and exclusively to three articles concerning the issue of implementation of the referendum, is our main objection to this proposal for a decision. We are in favour of accessing the amendments to the Constitution, but it depends on what they will be like whether we support these changes or not, whatever Nikola Grmoya has said. It is necessary to run the process of amending the Constitution when it comes to the referendum and it is true, but changes to the Constitution are not done every day. I said they don't work every year or every term. If we are a serious state then we will take seriously the problems that require a change in the basic act of the modern state or sovereign state, and these problems are not only the implementation of the referendum, they are not or someone wants to say that this is a more important problem than the fact that women are inequitable members of this society, that they are not only referred to as men as constitutional provision that man's freedom is invulnerable and that it cannot be limited by the will of the unspeakable directors or ministers or you want to say that the constitution guaranteeed dignity, self-determination and freedom of decision applies only to people who choose their lives to act in the way that part of the public or perhaps you personally expect them here, or simply that it is not a problem that in our country, the EU member, does not comply with the laws, whether you say it or want to say that you have enough courage and stand up to defend fundamental human rights, even though they are left in your country, that you are free of law, and that you are aware of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law that you are not put, and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Member of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Member of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law The long-term debate on this issue is a stable and stable high degree of consensus by citizens, voters, prime ministers, coalition partners of the HDZ, the constitutional court, but a stable and stable lack of the courage of HDZ to make its wish and wish for all civilised citizens of the Republic and to achieve, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120335	Replica's first respected Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120336	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is sad and even tragic that some of our colleagues do not understand or want to understand what today’s debate is about. Today's debate is whether or not we will approach a change of constitution and it is absolutely legitimate when we explain our position and talk about what is proposed, but also about what we believe should be proposed. When I listen to my HDZ colleagues they talk about the need to reach consensus or consensus and I agree absolutely with them about it, but the consensus is impossible if one vote does not want to listen to the other and that is what we are looking for, on Friday we are looking for a simple thing, accept to listen to all the votes in HS about what we think and what is crucial at this point to enter our constitution, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120337	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120338	Dear counterpart Grbin, it is generally known that HDZ is ready for consensus if it is according to their rules, and then it is no longer a consensus, it is something quite different, and good colleague Glasovac said in her debate which was not at all funny at all, HDZ and all those who signed this initiative agreed to change the constitution, but only in the section concerning the referendum issues, and it concerns only 3 articles of the 152 articles of the Croatian Constitution, as if nothing else was problematic, as if everything was perfect in our country, and I am sure that none of the representatives here present here agree with this claim, but do not all have the courage to say what is still needed in the constitution to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120339	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120340	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when you spoke of the specific needs of amending the constitution as if I had listened to a good part of my speech and in that part I agree. She would comment on the other two circumstances. The referendum is the highest standard of direct decision by the citizens themselves, so the crown of democracy, and is it not a little more radical that a political party who is actually the model of a party's thinking from the communist Yugoslav socialist system that you so often attack has simply implemented the very root of the functioning of the Croatian state from day one to the day today is just such a political party that recognises the will of only one man and the head of the party is now seeking to spread democracy and better regulate the matter of the referendum, to me it sounds a little speculative, how does it sound to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120341	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120342	Thank you very much. My colleagues Oreshkovic, so don't ask me what I think about what HDZ thinks about the former system, so they're the ones who actually put into today's speech a function that their founder, who, as a demeanor, gave it to me, so they love such a system that they actually do, even in this proposal, and they do it in a way that so-called. democracy and consensus are trying to show in a way that they dictate in which frameworks democracy can be implemented, we will only and exclusively discuss what we want and not a millimeter away, so much about democracy from HDZ, but I am not surprised, I am surprised by those others who have supported such democracy in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120343	Followed by a replica of the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120344	Thank you, Vice President HS Mr. Sanader. My colleague Ahmetović, without patheticity, you know how much I respect you as a person, and now I don't understand this as Marina, I don't care about my MOST, my HDZ, or SDP, or anything at all. I know some of you, I don't know you for maybe a lot of years, for the sake of hearing whether it's more or not, and that personally and by feeling no, how could it be that you supported HDZ by your signature, so we could discuss this topic and I really think we should discuss everything, I think we're talking about Friday about voting, so forgive me. How is possible, we can discuss everything and we need to discuss it, it is democracy, and I really believe that every debate is good, that it deepens the topic and that we are aware of ourselves in the end, but on Friday there will be a vote, can you give Croatian people, citizens of our Fumani Rivers, in Omislja tell people what you will really raise your hand for HDZ's proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120345	Dear counterpart Miletic, I am truly sorry that today you are part of a team that flies like a fly without a head, who is trying to convince Croatian citizens that the future is now, you are talking about a vote Friday, today is Wednesday, where you say what the SDP will do on Friday. Trying, trying to impute Friday that MOST influenced how SDP would vote, so cheap pulsism, cheaper pulsism in life I haven't seen. I had hoped of all of you, but from you fellow Miletic at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120346	But it's not right for you to tell them they're like flies without heads because they're not MPs after all. And I won't give you a warning just to warn you. [[Intruder: Give me a warning.]] Here's Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic Please. [[Intruder: Sad, Nikola sad.]] Please, please, please, Mr. Grmoya. [[Intruder: Sad Nikola, sad, sad you know better.]] Please, I'll give you a warning. [[You know better.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120347	Thank you. I would ask my colleagues Ahmetovic to explain once again to some colleagues in the assembly that what we are discussing today and what they are likely to vote on on Friday, is actually the very beginning of a political story, so which should be returned to the foundations of liberal democracy, which is that MPs and their representatives are therefore discussing, that they have a compromise together, and that even somewhere they give up because then it would be only then that one consensus in the liberal democracy that is actually possible. So please explain to another colleague the difference between No, no, I don't have another 10 seconds because I've been listening to them, I've watched this one, so you can explain again the difference between the beginning of the story and something that can only come at nine months. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you and thank you for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120348	Okay, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120349	A colleague, Hajdash Doncic, once called you Grandma Wang, and now I'm moving that nickname to the MOST deputies because they know what's going to happen on Friday. What they don't know, and it's obvious from their discussions procedures about changes to the Constitution itself. So here today we are discussing information to colleagues from the Most about the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution, and in the proposal for a decision by the HDZ and all those who have signed such a proposal to the HDZ set out the frameworks in which the Constitution may be amended. And then the SDP MPs' club tabled an amendment on this very framework because we are opposed to this framework, and the MOST colleagues are already accusing the SDP of something that will happen or will not happen on Friday, in two days. So who's there, Grandma Wang?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120350	The next replica honours Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120351	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ahmetovic, you started your presentation could be characterized like that with the one where the ball is a masculine, is since we're changing the Constitution so let's try to throw something else in. So for the last time in the change, Zoran Milanovic said that the diaspora only has 3 MPs in the assembly, and now he's so keenly worried about the rights of our Croats in BiH, and now you've thought about putting something in, but Andrej Plenkovic has rejected you, HDZ has rejected you. And this is all now in all your discussions going in one direction which is a little bit and sad not to say pathetic because it turns out you're begging them, you're doing that they respect and what you're proposing, and they're really not, they're mean, they're awful, and here I usually appreciate your work in the fight against corruption and everything, and I really think you're doing it great. But this part obviously won't work out for you, so it's a waste of your effort. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120352	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120353	Dear colleagues, Vucilović, I would prefer that you were so active in the defence of counterpart Sandra Bencic when she was, in fact, the subject of insulting fellow Zekanovic here and, of course, with the assistance of the vice president of the assembly, and not so active in defending HDZ's insistence and, of course, from its satellites and temporary satellites, the insistence that, in a strictly non-democratic procedure, the right of all MPs to discuss amendments to the Constitution within that framework and in the extent needed in a civilised, European, democratic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120354	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120355	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ahmetovic injured Article 238, disdaining the MPs specifically me, means that she stayed here she would have heard that our president and party and club condemned what my colleague Zekanovic said and in a very active way stood in this matter, and those football scenes of dating, turning backs, etc., and representing, and the behaviors that I do not accept in the assembly, everyone acts as he thinks he is appropriate. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120356	Time. You obviously made a lapus, you said Mr. Zekanovic, and you meant someone else. I have to warn you because this was a replica. The next individual debate was respected by Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120357	Here I will rely on this latest replica of my colleague Vucimilović, but also on the overall debate of my colleague Ahmetovic. So, if this generation now, we all together, we haven't reached that level of political and democratic maturity, and even political cultures, to join in serious debates on how we're going to build this constitutional architecture and the architecture of the state, then the best thing by constitution is nothing and not tangle. Namely, the constitution belongs to the people, belongs to the nation, doesn't belong to political parties, we're all here for a limited age, canned no, 4g. One term or maybe more, but even when there are several consecutive mandates, the constitution should still outlive us all together, and if it is well-coordinated, unfortunately it is not and it is true that the constitution does not change every day, not every year, nor every mandate, nor does the referendums take place so often, when there is a need for them and when there really is a serious and organised structure behind a referendum can and can succeed, the referendum is not our biggest problem. The constitution, the first one in the 1990s, despite the good and noble intentions of its creation, and my late father-in-law Slaven Letica, unfortunately, was not good. In many ways, many values of fundamental principles such as the secularity of the state and antifascism function quite differently in practice than the idea written in the constitution. The original constitution has experienced several changes, but even with these changes in the institutional sense, it has not yet been completed, it has not been laid on good and solid foundations, it is still our country. The rule of law implies that the laws are in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, that fundamental value of the rule of law still does not exist, it simply does not exist, cannot be, nor can it, as long as the constitution itself is in itself contradictory or indeterminate or simply not respected in practice in those politically sensitive issues relating to the relationship between the different branches of the state government and the different holders of the government. But just for that part, that politically sensitive part seems like none of us care, our constituents, so we're not just parliamentary representatives from the ranks of the position and the opposition, we're constitutionalists and we keep quiet about what's fundamentally not working in our country, and if it doesn't work, it doesn't even work to control that same government. When two hills argue whether it's some important foreign policy attitude and argue and argue to the level that we have brought down our state reputation in the international community. Is there an institution, is there a procedural mechanism for these two hills to be called to order and to be told to their faces by gentlemen dearly, so you do not adhere to the constitution and what kind of state that can tolerate such a situation and be considered as such still exists, that there is a notion of a state. And then this same, this same model, this same matrix of overruns and all the other everyday life situations, that's what our citizens see, it's not a referendum problem, the referendums are actually part of a political game, there are referendums that this government has managed to stop with its political mumbo jumbos, here's what's concrete about you, but you can't say that you haven't achieved some goals, you've promoted your ideas, you've promoted your political attitudes, you've grown in your ratings, and I'm against that rhetoric of Mr. Bačić and the complete HDZ that there's this energy that's strong in the collection of signatures should be eliminated, that it should be prevented. I want that energy, it's the energy of citizens who have the right not only to collect signatures, have the right to express their position with their signatures regardless of whether there will be a referendum or not, but it's all expensive in vain, it's just another form of showing frustration on everything that our citizens can't influence every day, and I can't influence because, as they say, the fish of the head stinks, and that head is the most positioned officials who, in the event of breaching the provisions of the constitution, no one in this country can do anything at all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120358	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120359	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bucaric, dear colleagues, ruling, respected colleagues of the opposition. First I have to say my personal attitude, I'm a little sick when I listen to us and when we go ad home to each other. I understand that we're different, we come from different stories, different environments, sociological, cultural, different families, different climates, but I'm really a little sick of this one border of human dignity, and I'd like to criticize each other using arguments, not arguments, I don't know dirty words, or under clear strokes, so I'm speaking for myself, and I'm here at the beginning of my parliamentary term, and then somehow you're thinking, so you realize that it doesn't make any sense, so here's an appeal. Second of all, I'm gonna be pretty plastic. We've been talking about a referendum here all day. This morning, Zagreb 7-8 rags, we say on the street fans or transparents, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 1st Rest and Peace, and indeed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 1 tells us among other things that the government comes from the people and belongs to the people. And this looks to me like when I was climbing, I think it was Via Italiana on Mangart, one mountain more serious on the cable, and then we didn't see if it was a notice, or if it wasn't that the GSS cut off the cable because it was changing and then you get to the top and watch it come up, it's a beautiful top and there's no cable to climb on, and you can't even go back. And so somehow the Croatian people are brought in, they're put in a position to say you have democracy, you can consume democracy, but there are such conditions that it's even a question of who can do it. Who can organise a referendum in Croatia and collect a million and 200 thousand signatures, okay, we said first reading, I accept that, but who can do this to my people, so who can do it, so it doesn't, so Papa Franjo to come you understand, I don't know who, guardian angels to come to organise the referendum. A million and 200,000, and then we have the ruling legitimately everything to understand, 17% got the electoral bodies and rule our Croatian. Okay, legitimately, I don't have a problem with that. And they ask the Croatian people 53% to come to a referendum so the referendum can pass. I've been sending it to me a few months ago, I was a very clear picture of what it was when he was fine about the referendum from Switzerland and said Marine sees the skeleton, I say what it is I have e, it tells you it's a skeleton because a man wanted to lift up the floor in Switzerland, according to the law of that canton, they have this some canton not allowed and asked people to come out to the referendum and the local canton allowed a referendum because it says it's the will of the people and if the people wanted it to be so. And people went to the referendum, said a man builds a floor and made it possible for a man to build a floor. And here we take that power from the people or not, but by ruling and saying you have a referendum, you have, you have, like she forgive me now on this, that mean one in that candy house, you have a sweet son, you have, come to the house, and you come to the house this head eats, your head eats, and it's not a grandmother, but some octopus corrupt with those huge arms, so we have, it's a picture of forgiveness with all due respect, I never generalize, I never generalize. I believe there are good people everywhere, just everywhere, but that's what happens. You have a referendum of Croatian peoples, but you won't be able to make it haa, you have a referendum of Croatian peoples, but we'll ask you, here you can collect it for 6 months, we'll give you 6 months to collect it, but it takes 2 million of you to get out, 2 million of you need to get out. And the Constitutional Court, thank you, fellow Grmoy, and about the Constitutional Court of Hahaha, and about the Constitutional Court is our companion, our godfathers, our relatives, our team. So even if, with some miracle, the deus ex makina comes down and you manage to make a referendum, some miracle Croatian people go crazy and succeeds in the middle of winter and collect signatures and says it's our will, a team comes to the Constitutional Court and says it won't work. The Croatian people, what we have here again, it's your fault, whatever God gives me never to come to the Croatian Parliament again and nowhere, to die in politics, it's your fault that we have this as we do, you're staying home heroes of the home living room instead of going out to the elections, so our fathers fought in the Homeland War for Freedom and Democracy, and you're sleeping, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120360	Next individual debate, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120361	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to say that I'm a little surprised with these discussions, and I've seen this morning that it's going to go wrong, and what's wrong is because one of the MPs came to the public last night, I guess he was somewhere under some tree resting for a few days and said he was going to rescue the people from this authority and these demands for amending the Constitution that touches the referendum. And I knew it would be wrong, and I'm sorry that the opposition got in a fight between each other in favour of those and those who only benefit from such a fight within the opposition parties, and that the focus of the important one was then lost and gone in the wrong direction entirely. They have achieved this and we regret that we have entered into this story organized as a responsible party who understands that the art policy is possible that at some point you can do something if there is a certain consensus between parties or if you have a majority that you can implement a specific project. And the trigger, of course, was the debate on the first reading referendum law. There was no option that didn't say it needed to be changed by the Constitution. You listen to people, you keep saying they're responsible and we come to an argument. So what do we have today? We've got a few groups. The populists say we won't talk to you at all, there are those from the Most, I don't know what about the Centro, the sovereigns etc., the Workers' Front. Those who dared to think straight think of the Social Democrats and some who signed, they were declared traitors and tokens, tokens of HDZ with one preparation, even media preparation. And those who, it's the most stable SDP here, Bauk still held the authority responsible for it, changed the constitutions in 2010, tried 2013, knew what it was, and they gave themselves up in another story and said that this question that I don't think has any basis for ideological, referendum, let's solve something that's process, event, could have at some point of implementation, but as some kind of institute of decision, there's no ideological basis for me, we're putting in a question that can go in that direction, so that's why we won't support you or we don't want to solve it at all. So at the end of the day, let's just do it so nothing happens and everything stays the way it is and we can all say, but that's the question no one wanted to solve again. Yeah, we want to work it out. HDZ doesn't have enough hands alone, there will never be a party that will have enough hands for it in such an electoral system, but there are conversations and ways to get there. And this is some first step, and in order for it to be convincing, then we have a blow to the Constitutional Court and it says, these are HDZ judges, they only judge who's from HDZ and they're some people who don't have their own knowledge and calling, they're people who are just with some political options. Let's go back to history, see what happened. So let's see what happened in 2013. An initiative to call a referendum on the quota for the application of the Constitutional Law on minority rights. Not 370,000 signatures. 632 165 signatures. The Constitutional Court does not allow a referendum, so-called about Cyrillic, if you remember, Mr. Thunder. Initiative to call a referendum on the adoption of a law against the calling of auxiliaries in the public state sector, 2014 Who's the minister? Arsen Bauk. 608 503 signatures, what does the Constitutional Court say? He did not allow a referendum because he concluded that the referendum issue was not in line with the Constitution. He wouldn't let it. 2014 initiative to call a referendum against the award of Croatian highways in concession, 530 thousand signatures. What did the Constitutional Court say? When the issue was to amend the law supplementing the amendments to the Roads Act, it is not allowed to call a referendum, the issue is not in line with the law. Who's the minister? Arsen Bauk. Who runs most of the Parliament? Peja Grbin. Who's the prime minister? Zoran Milanovic. Which is that court, a good boy of politics then, and this court, they're the bad guys of the current policy. I'm holding them as responsible as I am today. Just the same. Whoever changes or stays in that court. Why would they be good then when they were taking off... And now these are all some bad people, bad guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are even called in an inappropriate way, to be offended because they have one pillar that must be trusted, we trust him, we respect those decisions, let's not respect what? Where does that lead? If we don't trust the president of the state,... Government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the Parliament and MPs, to whom should we trust more? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a question of what we want. It was also the 2018 initiative. She didn't get enough votes, she didn't even go to the Constitutional Court, and she didn't go to this last one in the Constitutional Court, so the State Department. and this removal of Covid certificate [[Intruder: Time.]] And I didn't have time to say everything, [[We've got replicas.]] [[Intruder: The first is respected...]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120362	Caroline Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120363	... In the Croatian Constitution equality is prescribed before the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: Please, please do not throw from the bench, allow MPs to express the replica. Here you go.]] A fair tax system is prescribed. You of the governing structure have established such an injustice in which the people serve you as an ATM machine for the thieving that you protect. You're setting up monthly detentions for fans, and Todorovic didn't spend a day in an investigative prison. The equality before the law you deleted from the Croatian dictionary. You have institutionalized the robbery as if we were in England in the 18th century through the Executive Law, and the top of the executive mafia is good work of Croatian media, and now you're trying, what are you trying to do? You are trying to cement this epic injustice with constitutional jokes along with the Constitutional Court that devotes all decent people because in the good part it is made up of immoral and unethical persons. You know, there can be no injustice and no law to cement. According to your decision or your opinion on the day today, Communism and fascism would rule, but they've come to an end, and that's how it's going to end for you. Very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120364	Thank you very much, colleague Kristo. It all comes to an end in this world once. But you talk like that, like you do every day, reading these letters here that someone writes to you, so I mean, do you ever listen to what you say? How many people have you called here in two years without any evidence, because you find that interesting, because you're some kind of justice fighter and I don't know what this society is, we're all some kind of thieves and criminals. Do you listen to yourself when you read it? Well, it's not television, it's not HRT, it's spoken here, and I noticed that if you haven't written, you don't have an answer. No replica, no Rules of Procedure, and then you go outside. Who's writing this to you? Is that what you write and you get to write it yourself during the day? I think you read other people's opinions and you don't have your own, and this story that's something, etc., that I think to my colleagues what you're saying... It's a shame to me, as it was today some statements here between colleagues, especially between you from the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We opposition are very... What are we talking about here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120365	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120366	He's been injured. 238. No pathetic and miserable insult can justify your silence and non-responsiveness to very specific questions. You're ruining the Croatian people, you're robbing them, and now you're trying to use the Constitutional Corrupt Court to cement it to last forever. Right, well, you said one thing, everyone ends up, and your end is at the door. It's coming to an end very soon. [[Intruder: There's already been such a thing, so they're gone...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120367	Okay. This was your replica. You're getting a warning. Next replica, dear Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120368	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you mentioned the highway. Is that the same group that was picking up the highway to power, the Bridge back then? That group the secretary cleared from the government in three seconds. Is this the team that was running away from Prime Minister Plenkovic in Parliament because they couldn't face what they were trying to say? What is it about their expression and what is their agenda besides wanting to spoil, destroy and put in their focus the herd? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120369	Thank you, dear colleague Deur. ... I think that today we opened a whole topic that was asked to be opened, all agreed that the referendum should be regulated by the Constitution and the law that will go into the second reading, to take that story off the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: A Wolf Chetnik is this river'...]] [[Intruder: Please don't throw it out of the bench, don't spread it. I'll give you a warning.]] We've offered what we know and we can do the best we can, and those who are against, I say, already at the beginning, so they don't even want to talk. They don't want an orderly state. Don't think that, they don't care about this Law either, they don't care about the one we propose, they don't want to change the Constitution, because whatever we suggest they're against, and that's why it was funny to have one MP appear last night in the late hours, so fatal for the state, it's gonna go away, if he doesn't come to Zagreb after a few days of rest, and he doesn't save the people from the debate, and the debate runs neatly without him and he sits and participates. That people must see to it that they see seriously from the unserious, which is the defense of populistism, which are the policy options, which are that tomorrow you and those on the hoax of the people don't get the chance to make them unhappy like they tried twice in about six months, but we... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120370	Time. Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120371	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you have well defined how various populists on serious topics today collect cheap political points by not thinking about what is real and what is good that the right questions are really decided by a referendum in a serious way, that its constitutionality is assessed, that the issue is communicated to the public before it is sent to the Constitutional Court, and that the constitutional judges are elected by all of us who are elected by the people, and the people we represent in this Croatian home, we represent it in order to elect those judges who are then by the criteria that come and by the checks that are done at the time the most similar. Today's bickering about it certainly doesn't lead to anything, I don't think a reduction in the number of necessary signatures and evaluations and issues to be discussed in a referendum or to decide on a referendum is really necessary and necessary and that all normal and smart will support it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120372	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120373	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. Well, here's to what you said we had changes in 2010, 2013 to make it harder, to fail. He was Minister Arsen Bauk then, the minister of the administration, and they had their chance and the great majority in the assembly, although they failed to change the constitution, they tried, but because they went wrong, we know why constitutional changes were going on, because they didn't hand out those two who were eventually convicted, and they didn't want this question that they're imposing on us today in 2010, or in 2013, they want to give him no, that we're dealing with it now because they don't have other topics except for them, and that's what's the condition for them to do something... I invite them to their, in the role of the SDP sometimes and today to come to know who they are and what they are, are they still ready to be a junior partner to some parties like the Center, we can! etc. or one serious party that understands the problem that needs to be solved without blackmail, if we can solve it together, if we don't see how it ends. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120374	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120375	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Boris, today's opposition insists that the first article of the constitution is being violated, which says that the government comes from the people, but cannot read the next sentence as well in the first article of the constitution where it clearly states, the people exercise power by choosing their representatives, so by direct decision. Why do I say that? Because the Venice Commission, which has also been mentioned many times today, but incorrectly quoted, is just saying that the referendum is a good institute, but it must not be used to disabling representative democracy, and it seems to me that it was precisely at the heart of many debates today by the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120376	So is my colleague Stier, so is my colleague Stier, and that's why I'm surprised at this debate of theirs today and the argument that they managed to confuse between each other. I will now read to you the 2014 statement by Sandra Bencic, the initiative was then meant to enter the constitution of the definition of marriage, it was then in the motion against and said, the first thing I expect is to regulate the area of the referendum that can never happen again that 1/5 citizens can change the constitution. You're listening to their debates today, are you listening? Let's compare this today and what used to be, that they were against although watchful then came a million 960 thousand people, a million 432 thousand voted to enter marriage as a definition of the constitution, and just a little, a million and 300, excuse me, and 650 thousand was against, 66 and 33%. Who says these quotas are made up, quotas and do not ensure representativeness, let's say, after the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120377	Time. The next replica honours Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120378	Thank you, Vice President. In order for the constitution to change to HS, or this procedure to be legal, two-thirds of MPs are required. If the referendum is organised, it is enough to get 5 voters out, 10 thousand, 500 thousand so that the majority of those who went out if they supported the referendum will be legal. It's my impression that the biggest debate here is about this quorum of support that you mentioned that it wasn't accidentally determined this way. The fact is that most of us here agree that this quorum of support should be, but that we still need to talk about numbers and that they need to be reasonable, so I'm curious that now we're in the first reading, is there any corrections and what made these calculations happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120379	Thank you. Now I'm going to get a little bit right because I mispronounced earlier, so what I said was a referendum on joining the EU, then a million and 960 thousand of our citizens voted, a million and 300 thousand were approximately for, and 650 thousand against. The marriage referendum came up with a million and 432 thousand citizens, of which 950 thousand for and 481 thousand against, so there's about one million that should be these 25% that we're offering, let's say in these talks, let's say in this proposal, so we might be able to come up with some numbers in terms of what the voter list is, in the census, and so in many of the bases that could suggest what 25% of the things we don't need, a third of what we listed as organic laws, etc. or the 50% above when we talk about association, and I think we can talk about it, is it a million, is it something like we said 250 grand in the signature, so there's no question about how many voters there are, how many voters there are, etc., so we want to, but give us a hand to solve it, but don't go into 100 other spaces now, so let's solve these 100 other things, so we won't do nothing, none.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120380	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120381	Comrade Boric, you said the arguments exactly when you were here at the Bridge. The Constitutional Court, not a single referendum, I really don't know if you've been listening to your HDZ colleagues, so you've said our arguments here about the Constitutional Court. that all the referendum initiatives were rejected except that which was in the definition of marriage, so we are talking about the constitutional court of the tribunal being abolished, not strengthened. [[Clip intrusion: No]] Thank you very much for this speech. I don't know if you've come to the Bridge maybe with Nicole Grumo, you often mention him, is he, I don't know, is he at the club? Ask yourselves at HDZ, but every honor in this speech, behold, I am indeed, this is a historical speech, all the arguments that we make to the Constitutional Court that the tribunal has been abolished, you have basically said that the tribunal abolished it and that the Constitutional Court does not recognise the signatures enough and that it deletes the referendum. And that's very important. And once again at the end of the question, no matter how you manage to drag this part of the opposition into your network, it's not clear to me if you can explain it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120382	A fellow Bull. I don't know how to explain it. Sometimes it doesn't matter who's talking. It's how that listener understood it. If you listened well to me, and I believe it is, that Nikola did not tell you what you must say now that you have heard me explain why I explained the story of why the former Constitutional Court was as good as Grmoja said, at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and why this is not good at this time because they are doing according to the law and what is their duty and I have given an accurate review of what the initiatives have fallen and why the Constitutional Court has fallen and why the decisions have been made. I'm not going to talk here about a colleague named Bauk who made up reasons and numbers all over the place, so he did all the handball and ran away from everyone, and you didn't ask yourself a question, and why didn't they send this question that went to the Constitutional Court referendum, do you think? Because he'd been through the Constitutional Court, and that's what your colleague Bauk knew.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120383	Next replica, the esteemed Jure Bourkan. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120384	Comrade Boric,... Dear fellow Minister Boris, here I am somehow under the impression that all of us here should work for the first time under number 1, means for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the state itself, and that behind us and the democracy of our country and the Constitution must remain tighter and safer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And to give the right to the Croatian people greater, at least than we have so far. With these changes and additions, the amendments to the Constitution, what are we doing? We allow the Croatian people, the initiatives to make it easier for a smaller number of signatures to reach the referendum, but we also assure the Croatian people that this referendum issue, which will be the question of the right of the people to want most of their votes, and not now that the minority can reach a referendum and impose their response to the change of the Constitution in the majority. Who do you think might be against it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120385	Thank you, Comrade Brkan. Very much, as I understood the first reading of the law and these constitutional changes i.e. In several days of less signatures, we can check your question at the Constitutional Court that we know what's being signed and that we don't go into the story just by politicizing the same as some did, so that on what they say, we wanted to grow a few percentage points, so let's say it more than once, they didn't care about Covid's certificates and Stogeocracy and what I know what they were saying. So they simply wanted to politicize and deal with it be, but it's not forbidden in democracy. And in the end, you have the right to change the question, one more time if they tell you it's not good, change it, do it right, collect it and hold a referendum. They're against it. Why? Because now the lefts are blackmailing her. Those who shouldn't be doing this because they've managed or found themselves in a place where they can't handle themselves and are trying to push another topic as a reason not to be about what we want to solve, nothing else is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120386	Time. The next replica, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120387	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. Here today we could hear that actually the colleagues from the Bridge have several times denied themselves. So first, they said that this proposal was put ad hoc on the agenda, that it was hidden, that no one knew about it, and then later they said, the debates last week organised a round table in HS on that subject, and they didn't know anything. Secondly, they said they knew nothing, and today counterpart Rasdic says that with the indignity their club refused to participate at all in the discussion of amendments to the Constitution and the views and areas of the referendum, so of course you did not know if you could not participate as any constructive opposition that participated. And the third thing, they cried, they cried here for months as in winter, they collected 400 thousand signatures in the winter, and now as this suggests they're fixed for 250 grand, they're against it. And the 4th thing that's very interesting, the only thing that mentions the street and civil disobedience here today is the bridge, and recently said by a president from a hill. Very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120388	Well, look, fellow Habib, here. May I? Oh, I'm looking at what's going on here and I'm really surprised, here. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] The gentleman was somewhere I don't know, for a few days he was resting somewhere under a mandarin, a fig tree, which I know where he was, he came in last night, I'm looking here at Anta and Marina, every day they're here fighting for those things, but he came to save the people. That surprised me last night and that media coup about how we're gonna stop this one here today, I don't know if Bozo's still resting, maybe he's not, but what's important? 360 grand was a problem, and they're pointing it out. Now we're giving 250. I cited initiatives with 600 grand, 700. I don't see a problem in the number of signatures. That's what we do in 15 days, we give through the law and 30 days to collect. So everything's clear as day. What are they trying to stop? Their political tools that would make citizens this populist, little by little at some time reach them, sign them, put them in them and in their laps, and then lead them to great debates here. And the goal is just for them to profit politically, there's nothing for the citizens. This is good, I'll support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120389	Next individually... Next.../incomprehensible/...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next is an individual debate, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120390	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to approach the amendments to the Constitution in the way the ruling coalition did and part of the opposition deputies is so embarrassing that it is difficult to pass in the recent European history. To include this item on Monday on the agenda so that at the end of the session the vote cannot be called only by rape of democracy, this action can be called a process by the method of thief in the dark night. The constitution as a fundamental state document does not change overnight, but in every decent, civilised democracy, a broad social debate is encouraged with the intention of reaching a broad consensus on the basic document. But when your intentions are dishonest and you want to maintain an unfair and illegal state by deception and fraud, then the way to change the Constitution is manipulative, Seksovski, Plenkovićevski, Pupovcevski, mullatory. Today, the state of Croatia is led by people such as the President of the Constitutional Court of Miroslav Šeparovic who cannot pass any tax control, which the government is anti-constitutional and does not answer my parliamentary questions what the same constitution obliges. And how is that possible? A few days ago, a RTL journalist visiting on N1 TV said that the minister was very capable of leaving Maric, that Agrokor's affairs and the last affair of privileged summers had happened long ago and that there would have been something in there long ago. At first you think a man's joking, but then you realize he means it. Ladies and gentlemen in Agrokor everything came out but only because of the government's influence on the DORH, nothing has been processed. Political media falanga tells Croatian citizens you are not Austrians or English that you have the right to apply the law. The constitution stipulates that the DORH must work according to the law, but if the DORH were to work under the law, it would never become a minister. This initiative was launched by MPs such as MP Barisic, who reactivated the mandate several days after the European Prosecutor's Office brought charges against him. Barisic is accused of entering the area of responsibility of the European Prosecutor's Office, and the European Prosecutor's Office sees evidence as any normal person. I'm asking a question in this assembly, how many of you from HDZ and SDP would be charged with doing your job under the law? Would your HDZ chief Branko Bacic be prosecuted for those black bags and for his participation in the corruption of Sanader's administration? Would Peja Grbin, Arsen Bauk, Hajdash Doncic be representatives in this assembly? Would your Milorad Pupovac, after the Tesla Bank affair, be a representative? Ladies and gentlemen, the inequality of citizens before the law and universal savage corruption have a cause in disrespecting the Constitution and the open haughtiness of leading public officials who no longer bother to hide the discrepancies of their assets and incomes. And they don't even try to hide the general abuse anymore. Croatia is witnessing rough manipulation such as in the event of the government's president's involvement in suspected PPD affairs, which in several years became the second transport company in the country. A few days ago, the head of the PPD found an undeclared half-million-euro necklace at Zagreb airport. And all these irregularities go through without any consequences. The only ones who suffer the consequences are Croatian citizens who are forced to finance an overall thieving. This attempt to deprive Croatian citizens of the right to the most elementary democratic tools also proves that the ruling structures in Croatia have completely lost the compass and that the end of these destructive, unfair and corrupt structures is near.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120391	We have one replica, dear Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120392	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Kristo, this was all just not too much about the Constitution but about all those involved in decision-making in the Republic of Croatia. I would just remind you that all the affairs that were caused by the newspaper inscriptions the State's Attorney's Office has prosecuted or investigated. In many such inscriptions, it happened that after 11 years, a liberating verdict like it was for Roncevic, as it was for Kirin. There are also those charges that are just as powerful as Sanader's. There are those for SDP officials such as the head of the IRS, for the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. When you already wanted to weigh whether the State's Attorney's office works or doesn't do its job well, then you need to look at all the elements and all the events that have been because we are Many times bitter against him because of war trials [[Intruder: Time.]] war crimes or not processing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120393	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120394	My debate has to do with both the Constitution and the amendments to the Constitution, especially with the Constitutional Court, because in Croatia today, the Croatian Constitution is not respected by your ruling structures, and today we have everything that I have cited through examples, and when you tell me that what I am saying may not be justified or factual, let those who are called sue me first. Not only don't I get sued, there's no denial. And second of all, you're talking to me about court proceedings in Croatia, so the DORH told Zhaoac that there was nothing controversial about it. Mrs. Gristle is not Mrs. 10% but Mrs. 300%, and when the law comes, normal treatment of evidence happens, sanctions occur. Please think carefully about what you are saying and please cover your ears because you are the cause of today's problems with Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120395	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120396	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I already said in one line today, and now I'm going to do it again. If this orderly media haranga is the price to finally start talking about changes to the Constitution and if it will be the price to finally get to the consensus to come up with provisions that will allow the People's Referendum to be implemented, then I will agree to it once again and I will sign it again. So I'm saying that on my own behalf, I'm not saying it on behalf of those other nine colleagues from my club who signed it. Those stories we heard here today, they were all talking about the same problem, we can't hold a referendum. What we're saying out of the question, what we're saying in clubs, what we're saying in a bar, in a restaurant, that's not the solution. We need to open a dialogue, we need to open a polylogue, and without that, we won't get a solution. If this will result in all of us sitting at one table together, listening to all the proposals and then voting on these proposals, and then having the people's referendums, I think we've achieved a lot. The first step we have taken, we are all talking about the same problem, we are all talking about changes to the Constitution, we have mentioned all of them, and there was only one part of the change, and there was a colleague who mentioned the other, and this is the right to a choice that we will obviously discuss here in the fall, and I think it will probably be in the final and some kind of joint debate, and what we will see. Let's not forget the magic number is 101, one, zero, one, unless there are 101 hands in the air, unless 101 green dots on the screen have no changes, therefore without consensus there is no change. And that is why we need to talk if we are to achieve that the people can finally come to the referendum. To finally our friends, our neighbors can come up for a referendum and say what their opinion is and then that the opinion is included in some law, that something is happening on this basis, they're making some decisions, and it's not going without it. So I think we made a good first step. I think we will see soon after the discussion whether the initiatives of the ruling without which it cannot happen, without which it cannot vote whether they are really positive, whether they will allow us, together with them, to make these decisions about amendments to the law, or whether we will succeed afterwards, to do what we have mentioned several times, and that is that they too change their opinion to give in and that a really referendum can be implemented in a much easier way. The first step is taken, the number of signatures that are collected is no more than 380,000 but 250, we have more observations, we have observations on how many votes should be collected in the referendum, we have observations on how the Constitutional Court should react. I think it's up to us to communicate it clearly and loudly at our meetings, to communicate it at club management meetings, to communicate it in clubs, to make joint conclusions with which we're going to meet together, and then to agree on what is needed to finally tell our friends, neighbors, citizens, citizens, people you'll be able to come up with a referendum, you'll be able to express your opinion. Not like Switzerland, but you'll be able to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120397	Thank you, too. Mrs. Katarina Peovic has her own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120398	Good afternoon, everyone. Of course, we will look at the changes proposed by HDZ, but we cannot ignore the fact that not only did the proposed progressive opposition for the change in the Constitution in Article 63, by adding that a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth and that the state should ensure conditions, the preconditions for this right, it may not have to be meant but in the environment and the atmosphere of pluralism in which the HDZ called for talks, we discussed what someone would want to put into the Constitution and it would be possible to expect, why not put all the proposals and then we are now going into discussion about it, but if it is not already really unclear why our proposal has a completely disqualifying relationship with him in relation to this proposal. So we've collected signatures and we're changing the Constitution at the same time we've filed it somewhere, which is why it's not included in the agenda. The arguments we heard were, not valid and colleague Maric asked the same question to be answered and she answered it already in the Constitution no, and she asked questions here so I wanted to replicate so I think because of this whole circus here in the assembly lost the right of replica, they answered it already in the Constitution. And she asked the question I mean where is it in the Constitution no, and HDZ answers that in the Constitution in Article 35 is, the 35th article that has meaning relating to the protection of personal and family life, the right to privacy is. But Article 35 cannot be protected in any way means the right to abortion, and that is not only so that you can interpret this Article 35 in a way that protects whose personality, whose family life, does this mean I'm going to give you a plastic example, I think if a woman pregnant man has the right to ask her to give birth, I mean protecting family life on his part, I think, and we can interpret it that way, we can interpret the constitution in a number of ways, but let's say this is one of the most malignant that we could get out of this article. 35., but another argument why it can't possibly be a substitution means for what we want to do is that this article was already in the constitution, and this article was thrown out of the Constitution in 1990, and it needs to be repeated over and over again, it's not about something new. A colleague Ivo Stier asked a question or argued that we are looking for democracy in some way where it is not in the sense that it is not embedded in European constitutions, the right to abortion is not embedded in other European constitutions, constitutions, pardons. That's true, but France is now going to change the constitution to introduce exactly that right, so the French majority taught by the experience of America is going to change the constitution with this progressive law that needs to be entered into the Constitution. We can only argue that it was extremely progressive for that time when it was introduced into the Constitution in 1974, indeed not the other constitutions had it at that time, but now it is seen, so because these rights were elected somewhere just before 50. And Roo versus Wade was brought about 50 years ago. And now this right is being disputed, that it is the rights that were indeed at the time when they were enrolled were progressive. But there's one question here, too, so could we actually get to the American script? The same should be fair and said that the Constitutional Judges choose two-thirds of the majority in the assembly and that we will be in 2024. to choose constitutional judges, 10 out of 13, and somewhere in that formula, there are half of them nominally left, half right, and it is hard to believe that such a turn can happen unlike the US Supreme Court who had a second situation. And I'll also point out, that the coup is coming, let's be honest, and because of the proverbially lazy democratic policy that they simply let Trump's administration replace the meaning of these constitutional judges, he has a more traditional and right-handed view and a known case that an American democratic means the constitutional judge didn't want to retire, but kept her place to die and that one vote was crucial in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120399	Thank you. Two replicas, Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120400	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peović, I do not know what is progressive in your proposal, your proposal is against the law, anti-constitutional and vice versa because the basic human right is the right to life, and you are now in favour of something that is contrary. The verified biological truth is that human life begins with a conception that is the beginning of a new completely unique human organism, a unique genome, and the moment it destroys the universe, it's gone without that genome, it'll never happen again. I'd like you to try to understand that because you often boast about your titles and scientific knowledge here, you should know that. That's why I think, because of your proposals that are wrong, harmful and deeply endanger human dignity that the quorum of support makes sense so that such provisions don't enter the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120401	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic, answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120402	We'll have a quorum, so I don't know if you're aware that even with all these suggestions to fit me in on the referendum we have a quorum, so over 70% of people in Croatia think that a woman has the right to choose, over 80% of people are against the ban on abortion, so much for democracy. As far as scientific facts are concerned, I don't know if you fellow Petyr are aware of what you said here is borderline on what's absurd, what's really at the edge of science when you say that an unborn child has dignity, means the dignity of an unborn child doesn't exist, I don't know if you're aware of it, means a mature adult must have autonomy over his body and have no right that can be more than that woman's right to autonomy from birth alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120403	Thank you, ma'am. Peovic, thank you. That's two different approaches. We'd talk about it two years ago. here if you should and you know what my approach is, but everyone has their own approach, so this one, too, so, about science this everyone has scientific, has scientific facts on all sides, let's be tolerant and let's say I disagree, etc. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120404	Dear MPs today we have heard here in our debates really every debate since reading some reports that have been, which are... on the heart or on the hamster, through some referendums which were also... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the hamster, some scientific papers, everything here was mentioned today, but among other things it was mentioned several times and that the constitution is of course not ideal and that we have more topics to discuss. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that we should open these topics, three topics that are important to us, and that is the impact of the Constitutional Court on the implementation of the referendum, the other are the quotas that need to be discussed and the third of course, all of these topics that need to be discussed in order to ensure that we are all happy and satisfied afterwards. We won't be able to change all the topics or we won't be able to change everything that needs to be changed to the constitution, but what's most important is to make decisions together, here we're going to change three areas or three parts or five, I don't know how long it takes for everyone to be happy and satisfied after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120405	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120406	Thank you. I, in my previous debate, referred to this as being the influence of the Constitutional Court, the constitutionality of the referendum issue, which is now being put on this proposal, is wrong for me because the role of the Constitutional Court should be advisory and affirmative in the sense that if they give their proposal to rephrase the constitutional issue then the initiative should have the opportunity with this reformed question to implement the referendum, so set up means that you have two, two options before the collection and after the collection leaves room for manipulation to actually be seen whether the signed are going with the blocking of the initiative. As far as the quorum is concerned, the quorum should be meant not to be a good thing that one man can go to the referendum and that the referendum passes, but 1/3 means the voter's registered for the constitutional referendum is too much. That's definitely too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120407	Thank you very much, Mrs. Peovic, you have no more replicas. Mr. Brumnic now has his own, his own exposure. Here you go. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120408	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and the first question that needs to be asked here is why the HDZ is now starting to open this issue in this way. Very often when HDZ started to open something, then it wants to close it in a way that doesn't suit others. And as HDZ led today's debate, it would be concluded that he does not really want to resolve this issue but rather wants to transfer responsibility to others if they did not agree to vote only on what corresponds to HDZ. But the question you need to ask yourself is what is the Constitution? At one point Bulj said above the Constitution is only God, I did not want to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because he would have received a reminder, but above the Constitution is not only God, there is something above the Constitution, and that is the people who live by this Constitution and this Constitution is the basic document according to which someone in a field has arranged their relations. So that's what we're practically all agreeing to, that we want to live by these rules. And we want to live by those rules because we want to live in an orderly society. When you look at the societies that are arranged, when you look at the societies that have the most liberal man you would tell the referendum, and one of them is Switzerland, then probably all of us here, and all those who look at us would like to live in that Switzerland, not in one Croatia currently run by HDZ in a way that practically disowns everyone else's right to have a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120409	But there is no sea in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120410	Switzerland has no sea, but they come very easily to our seas, and we find it very difficult to reach their lakes while we are at it... And now the worst of all those who have received the mandate is in fact fear of making decisions, of opening up a question that needs to be opened in society and what I said today, fear of responsibility. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] HDZ is afraid of the people who practically chose it here, HDZ has a problem with, I don't know what you don't understand, replicate and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120411	Please, please, let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120412	So, as for the topic you've opened, which you've opened in me in a very unfair way, the subject of the Constitution where you've limited what can be discussed when you change the Constitution. As far as the referendum is concerned, as you suggested, much of it is practically impossible to implement. It is not a 250, 350 issue at all, or as Boric said, there were 600,000 signatures, in a society where the voter lists are not arranged, and it is known to whom it corresponds why they are not arranged, it is completely irrelevant in which way you will collect the signatures. What you're asking for is for signatures to be collected in exactly certain places that will be determined in units of local self-government leaders, which will determine to be collected in front of HDZ buildings, please. When you collect signatures to go to the polls, then you can collect them by house, by friends, wherever you want. If you're collecting for this, you don't have that right. As for the number of voters that went out, I don't know why no one opened that question, put in an online vote, we solved all the problems. Then I believe that 70, 80 and more per cent of the population of the Republic of Croatia will be evident on every referendum issue to be asked. Allow it, there's a reason you don't want to allow it. So this is how the amendment of the Constitution is set regardless of what the amendment of the Constitution needs to talk about and should in some way be set in motion to change the Constitution is with this HDZ I think completely insane. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120413	Now we have a little more time because I interrupted you before. And now it's Mr. Nikola Grumoy's turn, while he collects the wire, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120414	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have one narrative of the ruling that they want to arrange the referendum, and in fact they want to make it difficult. The reduction of the signature does not mean much more specifically if it means the collection of signatures before you go into the constitutional court action and says you can't, that question is unconstitutional. And today is actually for the benefit of what the Most Club says the best debate had by a colleague Boric. I said, I told my colleague Bulu that we must urgently bring him this access card to meet it because actually the man here, citing the constitutional court's conduct, concluded that no referendum had passed the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, except for the referendum on marriage, but that assessment was not even requested. So every referendum of Croatian independence has fallen in the Constitutional Court. This tells us that no referendum, if asked, will be held by the Constitutional Court. And why is this system that we had and in which it was almost impossible to reach the referendum, here we have collected the signatures, but we have not reached the epilogue, we have not reached the referendum? Why, though, is it better than what the ruling now propose, and what will support, it seems, fellow opposition colleagues? Because the citizens could express their position. The monetization of the highway, 67 is too much, what else is it, something about the outsourcing, right? It all forced it when the signatures were collected, it all forced the ruling, whatever anyone thought you should monetize the highways, should have outsourced the services or not, but the people told their position to the signatures. It all forced the ruling to give up their decisions even though the referendum had never happened. Just as our 400 thousand signatures were brought down by the Constitutional Court in a funny way, so the explanation was that people didn't know what they were signing, but those 40,000 signatures stand over the head of Boris. And all the time, he's always pounding it on his head. Both him and Plenkovic and the others are aware that they must not introduce stricter measures because protests will take place on the street. They know it, Boric is aware of it, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has done for him. That's what this is about. If we accept these HDZ amendments to the Constitution, it won't be possible anymore either because tomorrow you will start a referendum against HDZ and then the Constitutional Court will say immediately, and the story is over. It's a finished story, no signings. There's no signing at the Parliament. There is no success against the government because every referendum is a referendum against the government. And I can't believe that you're hooked on that story and you've given some kind of two ridiculous amendments, colleague Bauk, and if they accept those two amendments, you'll vote for these changes. HDZ amendments to the Constitution. And it's not this one, this story that you're telling is deeply explained about what everything in the Constitution should change, it's not a topic. The theme is what HDZ and those who have signed proposed, these amendments to the Constitution. And where does this story say that changes to the Constitution need to start some kind of process here, that you should vote for HDZ amendments to the Constitution? Well, the amendment to the Constitution will happen when a consensus is reached in the Assembly and as you have discussed with HDZ all these months, so will Friday, if these HDZ changes do not pass, you will also be able to discuss. As long as this mandate lasts, it takes the opportunity for you to discuss it with HDZ. No one is defending you or knowing when you're meeting, what you're talking about, and what's the subject of your conversations. So, again, I call you, don't, all the MPs of the opposition, and the Social Democrats, those who have signed, the SDP, don't assist HDZ on Friday in killing the referendum, I call on all unions, all associations, all those who have ever launched any referendum and who believe that citizens have the right to a referendum statement, I call on them to make an announcement on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120415	You, too. Mr. Bull will be replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120416	Thank you very much. First of all, this first part that Boric had the best debate, I agree, through the replica, all the arguments presented by us to the Constitutional Court, literally, is that he did not say the final sentence which often repeated, through two rickets to abolish the Constitutional Court. So he absolutely supported all of our arguments, that's here, one finding. And the second is very important, too, how did Boris and the team Branko Bačić succeed, how did they get the opposition into this mill? It's very specific how they managed to get on thin ice and now the colleagues from the opposition are scrambling, they don't know how to get out. These are two very important things and a third thing, as my colleagues Deur and Djakic say, Croatian defenders support that constitutional basic law, the right to refer because the Constitution is the only God above the Constitution, and these are fundamental human rights, i.e.. Basic basic law on a referendum, on direct democracy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's off. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120417	Mr. Bull, thank you. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120418	Injury 239, insult of counsel. Mr. Bull. What doesn't make sense to you It's clear to me. [[Intruder: To you, to you.]] You are probably one day away from Rasdic, from Milanovic you get points each in your own way, you change a little, you replace Petrov and Grmoj, you put some Rasdic on. HDZ is stable... and [[Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120419	It was a replica. It's a warning. Mr. Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120420	Thank you very much. My colleague Deur was injured by an officer. 238 because this is simply an insult, this is a humiliation of MPs, a humiliation. Yeah, you listed those people who... I don't know who, Milanovica, Rasudiæa, but at least you forgot the Chetnik Vukic you bowed to, which you brought up, the Croatian army lined him up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You as a counsellor then for defenders. Is that advice from Pupović when he was in Backo Palanca for a meeting with Chetnik Vukic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120421	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here, you said what you had. Now I'm gonna say what I got. This is the third violation of the Rules of Procedure by taking away the word on this item of the agenda. Let's not, please, if I took my word. What? ... For history? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Here you go. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Please, I have no right to take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120422	Bulj, you co-ordinate all the time with people like Vukić by various counties, co-ordinate in your own way, and you don't know who you're collating with from Sibenik County, this down in Split what you're doing is better if you and Vukić were seeing each other for coffee because you would give better advice and drown you than you do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120423	Thank you very much, there was a replica going opposition, going sorry Go reminder, please no longer have the right [[Intruder: Replication response.]] No, don't wait, you have, but now we're talking about violations of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: The answer to the replica I have.]] And you're still here and you have the right to respond to the replica. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120424	Kola Bulj does not need a Croatian defender who fell very low and who was true in worshiping this Alexander Vukic and receiving him at Pantovčak, should not remind him of these shameful episodes in his political career, but what he should certainly do should, therefore, support his colleague Boric in what he said about the Constitutional Court, but we will still criticise him because he has made an immoral offer here to his colleague Bencic, whom he said if he supported these constitutional amendments so as not to hold a referendum on marriage, so that we can see that Boric is not only a great critic of the Constitutional Court, but he is sorry that the referendum on marriage took place and therefore offered his colleague Bencic this option to support these amendments so that he no longer would have such referendums happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120425	Thank you very much, no more replicas, but Mr. Deur has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120426	In 239, Mr. Grumoja talked about you for an hour on the show about your patriotism, your crime, your status, what you did in your Metkovic, so at the end of what you're doing, you wouldn't be in your election unit running away to another if you had the courage. And your courage, you were here in front of the Prime Minister running like, what a little girl and now you're trying a very, very dishonest way and those you mention have a lot more honor than your herds you represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120427	Thank you very much, I always warn you when the third replica is, I warn everyone the third replica, the reminder sorry, well, excuse me, excuse me, just let me speak what, listen I am, I am very calm, and I will say the following. That's the third, that's the third warning with the taking of words, unfortunately, as it was with Mr. Bulja as well. Mr. Boric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120428	Thank you very much. Article 238, what can I say is demeaning, insulting Mr. Deur's honorary Croatian defender by Mr. Grumoja, nothing challenged. A man who will testify that one day on that Wikipedia he will write under the definition of a lie right next to it will stand for Nikola Grmoi. It'll simply be your destiny, and what you're doing in the assembly to be visible, to create those videos of yours, and it was important to be below the level of honor of a man who wants to do something in this country tomorrow. to the benefit of the citizens. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120429	It was a replica. It's a warning. Mrs. Petyr, sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120430	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think that you should have responded to what your colleague Grumoja said because it is indeed an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, where he insulted his colleague Deura by addressing him directly as a Croatian defender and saying that as a Croatian defender, he fell low because he supported this HDZ initiative to amend the Constitution. I think it's inadmissible and that you should have reacted and protected the dignity of fellow Deura who unlike many who today sit here and enjoy democracy was in a trench in Vukovar and defended Croatian citizens and Croatian borders, Croatian cities. [[Thank you very much.]] You have to react to that, I insist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120431	Thank you, thank you, thank you. You have a warning. Thank you very much. ... You have a warning because, because, please, you have a warning because if I should react to any opinion that is expressed here whether or not anyone likes it or not in your replica, Mrs. Peović, etc., you have opposite, diametrically opposite ideas then, then I would just be giving a warning, and here I have to give a warning, forgive but I have to give a warning without any, that, nothing, nothing personal about it, but that's the case. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sir, Mr. Ante Kujunudzic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120432	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public at the very beginning, so to you, Mr. Deur, perhaps in the context of the Homeland War, I am not worthy to resolve even the disciplines, but I certainly thank you for the name of the herd in which you have placed a large majority of the righteous, good, honest, and among other things a large part of your comrades. Thank you for that. If I were to respond to your level, I might betray the values and education I have been raised to, but what I would like to say here to all of you if we had in mind and today's debate, and all the debates in at least these past two years, if we roll in mud with a pig, that's all a pig will enjoy it. That's why I'm gonna stop there. So as to the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, I don't enter into who signed what, I believe that every signature that's been put in place to be a proposing stems from a good will and a desire to finally not be a circus here, but that we finally go here and talk about things that we can agree on and things we can't agree on and we'll never agree on. However, the conversation never excludes co-loans, the conversation involves co-loans, including arguments. Here if it's gonna be a case or not, we'll see about that on Friday. An anecdote says that the Bratchani seem to me and the Soltans at some point made figs of the cannon, and the Bratcans were fighting, so they put on the cannon, it worked, it cracks and breaks them, and one of them stood up and said when it hit us like this, what it did to them, they actually turned the cannon on their side. Yeah. [[Attack Radin: Who pays dynamite from the two of them]] I'm afraid that all of this we have ahead of us, and it's about the referendum that the kind of figs are a cannon, and I'm afraid they're going to burst where they shouldn't. I am equally afraid, and given the constitutional court's decision so far, because if we are doing an analysis of all the referendums on what, citizens' initiatives, which was largely or in most cases discussed, the constitutional court and the non-compliance of the issues with the constitution, and all these issues were brought again by constitutional experts. So I'm afraid with this proposal, and having all this boredom from our short but rich, brave and heroic history in mind, I'm afraid the Constitutional Court will still be out of my class for as long as we name it and choose it the way we choose it. How to choose it differently I don't know, but what I'm applying in my life is when something doesn't work out, so I'm trying in a variety of other ways, and here we're not going to go to a metric and we're left with one serious problem, and we're left with a hypothetical problem whether the Constitutional Court and, in any future setting, this vote is going to be the one who's going to be in the middle, or when he's going to be asked the constitutionality of a particular question because if we're interested in what we often say here, and that's the people, then I don't see any reason why any of us are afraid of any of any of the questions that people that we'll always know about ourselves decided as he knew and so far, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120433	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120434	Thank you very much. Comrade Kujundzic, don't listen to Grumo lead you wrong, say those words about the pig, mud etc., he can do better, but sometimes he's happy when it happens, it's not this assembly that, we have a topic that we can discuss and you can discuss and do it neatly every day, he came last night... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120435	Let's move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120436	And I wanted to turn to the part where you said that we shouldn't forget the conversation when we were talking about this. The first to forget about this topic was just a bridge with what we definitely don't want to talk to you about anything, especially when you're talking about a referendum, admit it, means decided not and you don't deserve to talk to you and we accept it, but there are other people that you've been arguing here today for some of your interests, it's because of Mr. Grmoja and already 4 percentage points has reduced you in all the polls, given the exclusion it has and the policy it offers you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120437	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120438	Dear Mr. Boric, I agree with what my colleague Bulj has said that you are actually very close to Mosta's policy today and we are receiving you both arms and access is ready. As for my colleague Nikola Grumoja, I agreed with him in everything he was saying or disagreeing with, which is why I chose Nikola and this complete political structure of the Bridge is to work with them to disappear from the political scene, to return to my home, to live with my family and to do what I did with any other individual name and last name not generally who brought this country to the level that he brought it to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120439	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120440	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, about the part where you disrespect me that I should, for me, belittle it, that I should go into some bridge, that's one fullton without a coast, and there whoever walks in just knows he's gone. Never, never would have entered that party, and as I think of them, we said a few years ago when we threw them out of the window means that it never happens again that these people decide anything about the way they worked, the way they treated the government and everything they did, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120441	The second warning, it was a replica. Here you are, the same violation of Mr. Kujundzic's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120442	Is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238, otherwise I don't do it and I won't, I promise this won't, but I have to answer that. So, my colleague, Boric, in my life, I don't bother with someone I'm not afraid of, and I don't bother with someone who's cowardly in my life, and in your words, we are cowardly and what we are, and then we leave it to the Croatian people for ourselves, as far as we're concerned, we can tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120443	It was a replica, a warning. Mr. Djakic, now only replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120444	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Kujundzic, so you claim that this, these changes to the constitution that are like a fig tree cannon, you don't really want to present the truth that is clear, reducing the number of signatures to 250 thousand is certainly a big difference from previous opportunities. The assessment of the constitutionality of the issue that will be asked is a particularly good thing because we should not think later about collecting unimportant signatures, no matter what initiative it was, we have collected them many times and for, against the highways and this and that and we have become involved in everything. It seems to you today to ask whether it is possible to use a private company, for example, called "grizzly" for political corruption. And put that on the referendum. Imagine what that would be like to ask. When giving lessons to a colleague, Deura I would ask you to share the Bull who is [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]] He called me and him and we weren't here. [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120445	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120446	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. So fig cannon is a form of everything that we have in our Croatia. We've got him, suffocating a form of freedom, which we've seen. And I hypothetically asked what would happen if the figs burst to the side of whoever suggested this. Whether you're going to do it or not, I can't or I want to be the grandmother of Wang, we don't have any colleagues, Hidash Doncic. So what I was talking about is not definitely the number of signatures but the role of the Constitutional Court as we had in practice to see. So so far, in all the referendums that have, of course, been carried out in our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120447	Mr. Mazhar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120448	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Kujundzic. HDZ has learned as the state-of-the-art, strongest and strongest party to bear on its back and problems and make difficult decisions in difficult times. This has proved countless times, if we see the last year, two, three, about everything that has been done, and you said the level itself, that the level, the investment level that has never been, GDP is maximum in the EU, employment, etc., etc. I'm not talking about it right now, but the subject of what 92 MPs signed is because it goes in the interest of the citizens. So the truth will be seen through debate and in the end. Therefore, we do not need to abuse these speakers for individual politicians. What is visible, as we have created Croatia, as Ante Deur defended my Vukovar for which I am grateful because I do not have to defend him, he has his name, his work, he will defend himself, and those of you who speak of him say they have nothing to talk about, and it shows what the Bridge is, therefore, everything is seen, everything is known.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120449	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120450	Dear Comrade Mazhar, I responded to the remark, the herd's remark. It's a herd remark. What I'm going to say to you is, often we all have a citizens' interest in our mouths. Where we can very clearly, very relevantly see, feel, check. It is in the implementation of a specific referendum. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Croatia so far. Because we have a Constitutional Court that makes decisions, I don't know if you're listening to me at all, but I'm keeping my decency, actually I won't, and I won't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120451	Mr. Erik Fabianic has his own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120452	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am one of those who signed the Constitution's amendment initiative as well as the other 90 colleagues. I'd sign it regardless of who's proposing it because it's important content, not who's proposing it. We've been having a lot of discussion today about the metrics, but today it's not about the metrics, but it's about changing the provisions of the Constitution that will regulate the referendum. Some colleagues remained as shocked and surprised because it was not united with the termination of pregnancy as an initiative that I also signed. Why did I decide to sign both? Because trade in politics is not in my habitat, and also because I certainly suppose that the HDZ colleagues would not put it in their proposal for this amendment to the referendum, this constitutional provisions on the referendum. But as I suppose he will refuse the initiative, also, which I signed, therefore, and regarding the installation of the Constitution of pregnancy termination, therefore we will have to go to a referendum on termination of pregnancy. I'd like to be this surprised and put it in the Constitution, but it won't happen. But if we start a referendum, then it'd be better if it were quality-regulated, and the one from the Bridge because I live in real life and when I say something, I say it in a way that I might eventually be part of some parliamentary majority. I can't speak as an opposition something you wouldn't say if I were part of a parliamentary majority. I have an ugly habit, namely, I've been a part of 30 years, part of the parliamentary majority, and I can't say one thing when I'm in opposition and another time when I'm part of the parliamentary majority. You won't have that kind of hypocrisy from me. And I'll tell you why, and I'll say it again. Why? We can build into the Constitution an end to pregnancy and because of the European acquis, I repeat, we haven't solved the problem even when we win the referendum. We win a referendum, hypothetically come to power, right on the wings of that referendum, and when we have to go to St. The spirit or other hospital in Zagreb is resolved by the termination of pregnancy, only because it says in the Constitution we will not solve it. We're not going to solve it. EU court practice and, uh, I even went to read, uh, the bioethical tract because I even started believing what you're talking about. Therefore, we need a better constitution that needs to regulate the referendum. We can bid and tell how many signatures we need and what might be the quorum. The people are above this Parliament. But hypothetically speaking, if we have the total number of voters who went to the polls and chose this Assembly, then the quorum needs at least a million and 100. A million and a hundred. If it's some normal law, then regular law, which qualified majority do we need? Half way. And if there's a referendum where the Constitution changes, it takes two-thirds. Like us, it takes two-thirds. I'm talking about what logic is. I'm not talking about petty day-to-day politics. And if we write better than we have now, Fabianic will put his signature on it, whether someone likes it or not. And also, I am in favour of putting an end to the pregnancy of this constitution, but that's not going to solve the problem. But by changing this referendum constitution, we're still going to improve something, and we might be able to solve some problems. There is doubt, of course, about the Constitutional Court and other matters indisputable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120453	Thank you. Replic, replica. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120454	Your Honor. I thank you for seeing the good of these amendments to the Constitution that we propose. And also, I'd like to ask your comment. If we are doing this to ensure a good and quality framework how will the people and the rights of most people be shown in a referendum, then the true opinion of most people, who can be bothered by it? What's with all the resistance today? We've been here since 9:30, which gives this much resistance to something that gives power to the people to choose most of the votes what is best for this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120455	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120456	The suspicion is not in the regulation, doubting the parliamentary majority that implements it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120457	And you don't have a replica anymore. And now it's Madam. Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120458	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, according to my opening statement and some of the questions that came up before, I will refer, here, to my colleague, Boric, you, my colleague, said in 2014 that I said, yes, absolutely I said that and I am still absolutely standing in favour of a constitutional referendum, so for a change of constitution there must be some quorum of decision-making. Absolutely. Why? Because the amendments to the Constitution, either through the parliamentary two-thirds majority, or through a referendum, should generally be an exception, rather than a rule at the monthly level, because the Constitution is a fundamental act of a state and I am absolutely standing there. I also said for years that there must be a graduation of these conditions around the referendum, which means that the easiest thing to do is to be able to run it at the local level, then legislative, and then the Constitution, because it has to be a graduation because it's also some kind of graduation, a hierarchy of legal regulations. Such a graduation requires, there's also a parliamentary procedure, right? That's why we have laws that we make to the common majority, most of all of all MPs, decisions of most of all, we have decisions that we make to that qualified and we have decisions that we make to the two-thirds majority. Because that reflects the hierarchy of the legal regulations we're making. So, I agree that a certain quorum of decision-making in the constitutional referendum must exist and that it is not a normal situation that literally 50 people can come out and change the Constitution. This can't be a normal situation. However, there can be no normal situation that, as a quorum of decision-making, one third of all registered voters in the Republic of Croatia who voted in favour, means not those who went out, who voted in favour because, I told you in particular, it is over a million and 200 thousand people who have to vote in favour. When we compare it to that 2013 referendum, where Mr. Boric told you, that's where he voted 940 grand, sort of. What? 950 grand. Okay. It was 66%, and now it's usually your ratio, because of course they're more motivated to get out those who vote for what it was, if they put that ratio to future referendums that 66% of those who are 33%, that's what you get out of 50 percent of all voters in the Republic, and we don't have that kind of turnout in parliamentary elections, people. We had 45% on the last parliamentary floor. And now that you put into the power of the entire government, the state apparatus, all the political parties that run the campaign and come out at the end of 45% of the people, and on the other hand, you have one national referendum initiative that doesn't have that means, neither that camera nor that media, and you ask more of them than we all get together, when we're elected in parliamentary elections. Now that's not right and it's too much because it's going to disable the constitutional referendum, and he, his possibility, must exist and must exist effectively. Not on paper, but effectively, it must be done. The legislative referendum, in my opinion, is something quite different and I am not sure that we should have a quorum of decision-making as I am not even sure that we should have for the local level because these are things that change faster, they can change faster, and they are not carved, they are not etched into the foundations, in the basis of the Constitution, the Constitution is another thing, and I ask you to discuss and think about future changes in this way. And once again, I appeal to the quorum of decision-making, we cannot, as the Green-Left bloc Club, agree to not determine in advance what issues are in the sole jurisdiction of the government, the parliament and the president. It's that every time every question is decided over and over again by some majority of the Constitutional Court who has such an interpretation, for example, five years ago can change in five years. It's not acceptable to me either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120459	Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120460	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120461	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120462	Thank you, Vice President. When we talk about the 2013 referendum on the definition of marriage that entered the Constitution of the people, then the holders of the initiative had everything against themselves and the president of the state and the prime minister, the full set, the ruling majority, the media, all the others and managed to collect 950,000 signatures when it was known that most were sufficient. So, I, I think, I think the voting quorum when it comes to amending the Constitution must exist that it would not happen that we literally change the Constitution every year because I really don't know what this Constitution should add yet, I think we have achieved our strategic goals. But what I agree is that we need to think about the number for that voter quorum and that this number has to be reasonable and that's why we're talking here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120463	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120464	I thank my colleague Petyr, you are right, this was then allegedly against the referendum, but it was likely that they did not take the basic steps, which is that they did not refer this request to the Constitutional Court's assessment, you know that but the Constitutional Court brought that assessment according to its so-called so-called. General law enforcement. But there's another thing, even if they were, you had those actors against you, they had the strongest on them, and it was the church. And when you have this church to collect and help you collect signatures and secure votes, then it's a completely different situation that we've seen in the outcome of that referendum, but then we're not talking about editing today. Yes, I think we need to be able to agree to reduce the quorum of the decision. And another thing, that maybe we should also consider that it is not in percentage but to fix the number as well as fix the absolute number for the number of signatures needed for the launch of the national referendum initiative at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120465	Thank you, no more replicas, and now we're moving on to the final points of view. The first is Mr. Damir Habian in front of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120466	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here today we were actually to discuss whether we would approach amendments to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Law or not, but 95% of the time we were discussing something that wasn't really the subject of today's debate, but well, it's not even the first time. Two months or more ago, we discussed the proposal of the Law on Referendum, and most agreed that it was necessary to regulate this legal area concerning the referendum, and in doing so we agreed on the opposition, and on that trail it was actually moving in that direction, and this is the first step that we have to take if we really want to regulate this legal area of the referendum. And I think it is good here to mention once again that there is this part of a constructive opposition that has recognised it and which has joined and also signed this initiative, that is, this proposal, so 92 MPs and MPs have signed the same. However, there is still this small part of the opposition that has again shown one, one hypocrite today, so who here claims that they were not familiar with the launch of this initiative, to launch this proposal. At the same time last week in this assembly, they organised a stand and round table on the subject, so around the referendum. The other thing they didn't know was that this was being debated, no wonder when their representative from the MOST Club said here that with an indignity, so I quote with indignity they refused to participate in the talks on amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law. This reminds us of when they refused to discuss the coronary crisis and later later called the prime minister, after which they also went out, went out with some of their own. They did not know about these amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, and yesterday they were chasing a car towards Zagreb to save the people from the wicked HDZ. They also cried and cried here for months as it was difficult in the winter to collect nearly 400,000 signatures according to the current referendum law, but today when we propose to talk about 250, so a fixed number of 250,000 signatures needed to change, to launch a referendum, is no longer appropriate for them today. So once again, I'm glad that this small part of the opposition has shown one hypocrisy and that it has denied itself today on several occasions. They didn't get a good deal in the club, obviously. The second thing, there were a lot of words about the Constitutional Court and I think on several occasions here it was actually wrong to set that the Constitutional Court is part of the judicial authority. Therefore, the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial authority, the Constitutional Court is the fourth pillar of power, with legislative, executive and judicial authority, the Constitutional Court is the fourth pillar of power. I don't think anyone can deny that there are professional people in it. I also ask the question at this point and according to the current Law on Referendum, it is the Constitutional Court that assesses the permission and constitutionality of a particular referendum issue, which is also the case if such a proposal passes so that the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law will do so now, but rather rather than starting with the collection of signatures which are ultimately not bad, which is also the goal of reducing both costs and energy, but also all that passion that is sometimes put into it. And the question arises which body would be if it wasn't the Constitutional Court to decide on constitutionality and permission of the issue. It was about the Venice Commission, so just a couple, a couple of things to touch about it. Therefore, it was mentioned here by counterpart Rasudiæ Article 7a, but avoided Article 7b. a recommendation from the Venice Commission. They also avoided when it came to the recommendations of the Venice Commission which said it was necessary to mention in issues falling within constitutional categories that there was a quorum of decision-making, and also when it came to the recommendations of the Venice Commission that it was said that referendums could not be held if the text of a proposal requested for a referendum was referred to a question which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of parliament. Something similar to the formulation that stands in this proposal which is now the subject of these amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Therefore, this is only the first step, follows us also before the committee if this is adopted by the ordinary majority in the Croatian Parliament, so the establishment of the draft before the Committee follows the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Finally, what counterpart Bosnjakovic said on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, of course we will support this motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120467	Mrs. Sandra Bencic will represent the final views of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120468	I thank the chairman. Here for the final perhaps to recapitulate what is actually the basis of this whole process, and this process of amending the Constitution takes place in three steps. The first step is the decision to join the amendments to the Constitution, the second step is the decision on the draft amendments to the Constitution, and the third step is the decision on the amendment of the Constitution. The first and second steps, the accession to change and the draft changes are voted on by most of all representatives, which means most of all MPs. While the third step is therefore the change of the Constitution itself votes 2/3 to most of all MPs. We expect that, given that you have been working to supplement the name of this point that we are discussing today, except that in the beginning the accession of the amendments to the accession decisions you have complemented by calling for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitution and the draft amendments to the Constitution, however, I hope that you are aware that these must be two separate issues in the vote and that these issues cannot be voted on as one item because it would really be contrary to what the Constitution says. These are separate items of Constitution 1, 2, 3 and so must be decided. For each one it's prescribed specifically for most of them. There can't be one decision. I understand why you would go to it, but it's possible for you, I mean it can really collapse and don't do it because you're going to contaminate the process. And in order for the process to be good, what's necessary? Most, the vast majority agree that we should go to the amendments to the Constitution, but not any changes to the Constitution. The vast majority will also agree that the number of signatures needed to launch the People's Initiative of the referendum should be reduced because indeed 10% of voters are now too difficult for people's initiatives. It's good to cut to a number and it's good to have a fixed number. We disagree on everything else, and this should be a process in which steps 2, step 3 is debated. If you speed it up, if you speed it up, you won't get any quality changes or eventually voted changes. However, we who agree on the need to amend the Constitution, so that it is necessary to approach the amendments to the Constitution, have clearly said that when the Constitution opens, we expect that those issues which are burning issues should be opened. There is an opposition proposal that the Constitution now introduces women's right to freedom of birth. That's what we heard. That's the idea. The proposal was also in the draft Constitution, the Christmas Constitution, which miraculously disappeared two weeks before the vote. We know about the pressures of which group, but he was recognized. So he was recognized and part of it was... Our Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there are records of that. It's time to resist these pressures, say we're a secular state and recognize women's right to choose. And since we have failed to institutionally ensure the implementation of the law that we will now give a committee and say that this is constitutional law, the state will be responsible for the damage if it does not provide and no majority in the Constitutional Court will ever change that because it is a constitutional provision and it is a constitutional provision on human rights, fundamental rights. And that's why I'm inviting you once again to make a big civilization step and open the space that when we open the Constitution to do what's important for our citizens. To regulate the possibility of a referendum in a way that is a regulated area, to facilitate the launch of a people's initiative and, of course, to enable them to be effectively implemented to the end, but also to protect women's right to choose. You know your voters support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120469	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peović, HSS and the Workers' Front final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120470	Thank you, everyone, I mean what Sandra said would actually be good if it were possible, unfortunately, the ruling majority refused to put into debate what was required by a progressive opposition, which is related to women's right to free choice and the second sentence that we have entered, which is the right that the state should provide. But I certainly call on you to think there's still room for you to actually respect the opinion of your own voters in this process because now you're going against it. But as I said in the previous debate, even if you haven't decided to put it into these changes, the Constitution is unclear why you allowed one proposal that has a sufficient number of signatures to enter the agenda of this session, and another proposal that also has a sufficient number of signatures and which is also substantive, means changing the Constitution is not in the debate today. It's completely incomprehensible, isn't it, but it's still a signal somewhere even though we've been involved in these proposals that there's no will to talk, to talk about what these changes should be. And I'm just here to briefly sum up what's on our side of the remark. So it's just, so there are four segments that we're changing here. Only in one segment are the changes and the proposal for a change of good. So that's reducing the number of signatures from 10% to 250,000, that's all hailed plus means certainly increasing the amount of time it takes to collect the signatures from 15 to 40. That's what everyone said I'd say hello. The second thing is to put a quorum, and now there are a lot of people who agree that this would be good for constitutional, constitutional changes to the quorum, but that the quorum is absolutely too high. So that's not a quorum that's real. So the HDZ proposal passes the referendum if one-third of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia backs the referendum issue for amending the Constitution and organic laws. And it's even more hypocritical of the rule that you've introduced that means decomposing and joining in supranational communities that should be more than 50%. For the laws you put 1/3 and here I agree with the suggestion that maybe it doesn't need a quorum because it's something fluid. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the organic laws of 25 to 30% of the voters enrolled would be about 967,500 for association and disunity, as well as 25 to 30%, although when we had this referendum on EU accession, it should only mean 50% of the voters left, it was somewhere when compared to the current number of 1/3 of the current voters. So we can't play this way of joining and disuniting from transnational communities in a way you can check in any time you like but you never leave, so it's not a hotel California, Europe and we shouldn't approach it that way. Some type of paranoia from some Yugoslav or regional associations in this proposal is likely to appear. What's important about this quorum is that in the fall you will go most likely to change the Constitution progressive opposition will go on return is it important to stress the return of the right to abortion in the Constitution. And now, of course, the quotas are being raised to restore the right that was elected 50 years ago, which entered the Constitution now, if HDZ wants to introduce that 1/3 of the voters entered must vote for that option, that would be over a million 290 thousand must be for a referendum issue that changes the Constitution. And so it's completely unrealistic or it's a real and fair quorum. So when we changed that constitution with the definition of family that was some, it was less than a million as far as I know. The third thing is even more problematic, so it's limiting what a referendum can be called on. So you should absolutely say that as far as this is concerned we can expect that any referendum cannot be launched and the constitutionality check, the Constitutional Court should be a partner and an assistant, not a block referendum initiatives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120471	Mr. Arsen Bauk, final SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120472	I thanked first of all for the record, my colleague, Boric, I was indeed the minister of the administration, but my task in the referendums was to count the signatures, and everything else went to the assembly, and as far as the numbering of the signatures was concerned, there was no objection. And as for the Constitutional Court and the judges who were in the Constitutional Court during the government of Zoran Milanovic, all 13 were elected while HDZ was in power, so that they had really nothing to do with our government. As far as this amendment to the Constitution is concerned, I'm going to try a bit of a picturesque sports dictionary. If it is usually working, if the normal functioning of parliament, the government and the parliamentary majority can be compared to some athletic discipline, it is a leap further. So you're going to try not to commit a crime and jump. And the change of the Constitution can be, the change of the Constitution can be compared to the cost. So you go and you have to jump three times and don't commit a crime to make it right. And the world's champion and world record player in the Yulimara Rojas triple jump can't go any further because the norm has come true with the jump shoes that have this little bigger sole. So even when changing the Constitution, you should be careful not to jump with shoes for ordinary laws but to adapt the equipment to the discipline that goes. And why am I saying this? So we, too, if anyone would be more careful to ask for my discussions and statements several times called on the parliamentary majority to approach the amendments to the Constitution because of the referendum matter. These changes to the Constitution have 4 pillars where in all 4 directions in my opinion, shifts are made in the right direction. When reducing the number of signatures, when defining topics, at the quorum to decide and in the previous constitutionality check. So the direction's okay, for a trip, it's okay. Now, not all of them are not all details of this, not all of these details are best written, and it is especially necessary to keep an eye on the marks, points and these sentences concerning the Constitutional Court, and at this point I will, until proven otherwise, interpret these provisions on the previous check and the referendum questions in an affirmative sense, which is that the Constitutional Court gives instructions to the organisers how to possibly bring the issue into line with the fact that they no longer have to do the constitutional test but to know in advance that the issue is constitutional and to start collecting signatures about it and that if the expensive signatures are to be called on this referendum. As for the quorum of decision-making, there have been stricter suggestions than this, I think a reasonable solution should be found and therefore the talks are served. Now, I think it would be a good idea not to be too rigid in the amendments to the Constitution and not to be slaved with certain chains, to remove the shackles only on the basis of this proposal, but to agree on some other topics, so that it can be found in the draft and the proposal of the Constitution. What is good when this decision is made, then the whole process goes to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we no longer have to be in clubs. So why is that good? Among other things, and because, if you look at the report from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, you will notice that this decision is sent to the plenary session with 10 votes, it is more than a two-thirds majority, that is the three-quarter majority and the pandan is 116 MPs in HS, therefore there is a sufficient level of political will and political wisdom in HS to complete this process that has been launched. And so, don't go in the wrong shoes now, the jump shoes are still going to jump the cost means because the disqualified one that's on the team is too thick or too president, the sole was a little tight. So there's room for a change to the Constitution, there's enough political will to get rid of these things, and of course, I know that you'd be the happiest to have us bring 600,000 signatures in the fall and you'd say, here, we have to, we're sorry, we have to do it that way and we'll try to afford it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120473	Please. Please. And finally, Mr. Nicole Grumoy's final views of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120474	To clarify, there are confused here, I see, especially confused fellow Habib who asks the question of how that we had a roundtable on constitutional changes, we say we didn't know this was going to be discussed. So we know that the topic of constitutional change is either the amendments to the Constitution or constitutional change, but it was not planned to be this debate on the agenda today. He stuttered, stuttered fellow Reiner, vice president of the Parliament when he announced there, that change of agenda, so he barely said it when they delivered him here. Number two. No. 2, so as a responsible party and a serious party, we have created a round table on which we have invited representatives of unions, representatives of civil associations, representatives of initiatives that have launched a referendum in Croatia so far and representatives of civil associations that oversee election processes and the referendum itself. And there are many good suggestions, some of which are likely to come to a certain conclusion. What is not clear to me after this day, why does the opposition support HDZ? Here, there's a colleague from the IDS, Lerotić, so somebody give me, here's my colleague Bauk, someone give me, colleague Maric, an argument that will make you raise your hand on Friday for these HDZ changes to the Constitution. One single argument. If HDZ has 76 hands, the process goes on because they don't need to, but 76 hands to continue the process. So you can still talk to HDZ about amendments to the Constitution. On Friday, you, colleague Lerotic of the IDS, colleague Bauk, colleagues Maric and others, you, if you raise your hand on Friday, have raised your hands for these amendments to the Constitution, for what HDZ proposes. Not that the process goes on because the process goes on independent of you. The process continues independently of you. So you can't, you're not needed at all unless you want for some reason, I don't know what you got, we weren't in those conversations, we refused those conversations, we didn't want to participate in them at all, I don't know what you were promised. Is there any road promised, some kind of tunnel, is it promised to fellow Bauku something that was promised, I can't know, Social Democrats, so what's promised? That's what you should tell the Croatian public. Which is why you will raise your hands on Friday for these amendments to the Constitution. If in the process that follows you manage to fight for your political goals, then you will be able to raise your hands for that constitutional framework that you agree with HDZ. But now you didn't agree to it. These are HDZ amendments to the Constitution. So there is no political or rational reason why you would raise your hands on Friday for HDZ unless something is promised to you. Unless you're hiding something from the Croatian public and I'm inviting you to make every intention known. Discover to the public what you've been negotiating. And don't hide behind the fact that you support the process going on. The process goes on without you. And HDZ cannot change the Constitution without you. They can't change the Constitution without you and you don't need them to move on, you just need them when you agree to amend the Constitution together, then you all raise your hand together. And I invite Croatian citizens, follow Friday who will assist HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. Today they are already praised by Plenkovic as a reasonable political option, so counterpart Bauk was praised, fellow Lerotic was commended by Plenkovic, so Social Democrats and all those therefore participating in this process. So you're going to expose yourself on Friday, Mr. Glasovac, and you don't have to be nervous about what I'm saying if you don't vote for HDZ on Friday. Then what I'm saying will be total nonsense, and you'll be able to do it on Friday, when you don't vote for HDZ, say Grmoya falsely accused us. If you raise your hand for HDZ on Friday, I'll be right and solved. So the bridge will reject this with disgust. This killing referendum and the will of the people. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120475	Time. Now. Now maybe, you can go to the place, and as far as I can remember, just... Potatoes, 10 kuna potatoes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Squirt 20, we're in the market. Mr. Bauk was the first to remember, not Mr. Lerotić. And you have two warnings. Here you go, Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120476	Thank you. Art. 238, namely, the representatives of the IDS are in this Assembly of 2nd convocation, representatives of the SDP of 1st and we are the only ones who have never co-ordinated with HDZ unlike HSS, HSLS, HNS and many others, and to metaphorically express myself as colleagues of Rasputic, some have played with the fox and both times ended up in the henhouse in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120477	Thank you very much. ... You know there's a warning coming because it was a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120478	Thank you very much. Art. 238, insulting and twisting everything that has been said so far by a colleague of Grumoja. I'm really off to the first time I called my name, but I won't. So you can't twist things like that, that we've been promised something, etc. And from where you have the right to be psychic Milan and to speak, is, you will do so anyway. I mean, you're a little insulting, you've gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120479	So I'm not going to change my attitude, I'm not going into content, I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Now it's your turn. Yeah, yeah, I know, but there's still injuries to the Rules of Procedure, right? Look, you won't be over the line, we're not in the mail. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120480	Thank you. Art. 238, a great expert in arbitration, Mr. Grumoy, who then knew what would happen today, today again the opposition is trying to suggest what will be Friday. He knows everything, says I'm fighting for the citizens, but I'm looking at this little particular interest of mys, this little party bridge, it's more important to me than what you want to arrange to be right, and that's a referendum because then we have a problem. We can't politicize, we can't do what we did and it's Only his message today [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.]] Man... [[It was, it was...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120481	... third and you have a third warning and a confiscation of words until the end of this debate. Mr. Habian, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120482	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, he's been injured. 238 by my colleague Grumoja. So it's interesting that the president of the Anti-Corruption Council actually here in his speech for at least 3 minutes has shown a real example of political corruption, so you've been insinuating and provoking and minority blaming all those who will possibly vote for this proposal on Friday which they consider to be good, therefore, it's an honor for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120483	Thank you very much. The warning, it was a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120484	Thank you very much. I refer to the article. 238 and of course, I immediately know that I will get this thing that follows me, but I don't, I want to say that Mr. Grmoya has managed to arrive on the 3rd day at a session of the Parliament, the truth God, I suppose he hasn't broken some traffic this, those restrictions, but good that he's arrived, and what the people say is that all things happen to you in life three times. Therefore, colleagues from the Most, for the first time, for the second and third time, you will end up with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120485	Thank you. Time, time, time. It was a replica, and you said it yourself. That's the third one, I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120486	So he's hurt. 238, I didn't prejudge or tell you what you were going to do. I said if you voted, it would prove that you were assisting HDZ. If you don't, then you'll be able to call me by right that I falsely accused you. We watch you Friday, we call on the Croatian public to follow, so how will SDP vote, Social Democrats and the rest The left opposition. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120487	Thank you. Thank you very much. A third reminder with a take of a word. And I don't know why I always like these things, so here you go, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the promoter at the end. Here you go. ... What's that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no. No, Mr. Peovic, you signed up after that. After I gave Mr. Bosnakovic my word. After Mr. Bošnjakovic, you can give him a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if you will. Will you? Mr. Bosnjakovic lets you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic, wait a minute. - Mrs. Crescent. Peović, Mr. Bošnjakovic, lets you gentlemen know that the Workers' Front has its word before HDZ. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120488	Well, thank you very much. Here's the same form of corruption at Nikola Grumoya. I never wish to answer the Grumoji, so 238, disdaining MPs and MPs. What would be correct at least, if, when you say, the entire left-wing opposition would vote for HDZ,... The labour front said at the beginning of the debate that we wouldn't vote, so then, let's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These have problems counting some, and you have problems with letters. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120489	Thank you very much, the time, the third, it was, it was, it was a replica, the warning is unfortunately with the taking of words. Mr. Bosnakovic, welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the motionors of these decisions I want to thank everyone for the debate, for their contribution. It's clear we're only on the first step, so this debate on the essence of things is just following in step two and step three, but we've already got a lot of information, we've already got a lot of good and constructive suggestions, so we're not going to have one with the disgust that I would say no to. We're going to consider all this, we're going to discuss all this for another reading and just what I want to say in a formal sense. It was said here that we must vote on decisions as well as drafts. Here we really need to figure out a draft and a draft. We now have a decision with a draft proposal, and in the second step we're actually going with a concrete draft. So on that side, we settle that doubt. The amendments you've made, we're proposing and there are 92 of us, we have plenty of time to discuss tomorrow, so we'll talk about it, and we'll get together. I'd say we've offered a good concept for me to settle the matter of a referendum that, which is as it is we'll still be in the next phase to see where we are. We've made it clear what we're up for, somewhere we even match up with others, we want to cut the number of signatures we need, we want to extend the time actually needed to collect the signatures. The dispute is whether, it is very controversial about the previous decision to permit the constitutionality of the issue itself. Now I'm asking again what kind of situation we have today? We have today the same Constitutional Court at the center actually that decides on it. Issues related to the support of the referendum are also controversial. That's what we said we were ready to talk about, whether this is affected by 1/3 or 1/4 that's going to follow in step two and three. Once again, here's a thank you to everyone for the debate, and I actually believe that after Friday, the procedure goes on, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120491	Thank you very much, sir, no, you don't have to stay here and have replicas. Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120492	Thank you. This is a business opportunity to respond without warning to my colleague, Grumoji. First we see these changes as protection against right-wing pulsism and right-wing extremism, that's the first because most of the initiatives were anti-human.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120493	But, but I would ask you to ask Mr. Bošnjakovic a question you can't just say "Grmoji" in replica, at least say "Bosnjakovic".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120494	Five seconds, five seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120495	At least mention Mr. Bosnjakovic, good evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120496	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120497	Okay, at least something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120498	That's another 12 seconds. Second...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120499	At least something, no, no, I'll give you a little more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120500	Yeah, good, good. You must have listened to what Mr. Grmoya asked me. Secondly, when this issue is limited, then there will be fewer places for ideological recommendations and then when we are in the coalition as counterpart Rasdic said the ideological moratorium will be easier for both of us and you. So we're helping you with this. And third, if we vote for a decision tomorrow, the decision will be made, and if we don't vote for a decision The same decision will be made [[Time, thank you very much.]] And you'll be watching us. [[Intruder: Time, thank you very much, time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120501	Would you like to answer Mr. Bosnjakovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120502	And I'll be looking at you for Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120503	Wait a minute, please, Mr. Bosnjakovic, would you like to say hello? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120504	What am I gonna say to him? [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120505	Well, say good evening to you, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120506	Thank you. You told your colleague Bošnjaković we were only at the beginning of the first of three steps. Here, it will be interesting to see whether something fundamentally changes from that first to the third, or whether this time the HDZ procedure will use only forms for the sake of it, and the content as it imagined it would be. And the other thing that interests me, I know you're not going to give an honest, accurate answer, but I'm going to ask the question so I can hear what you're going to say. Why, of all the problematic, neural points of our Constitution, why exactly the referendum and why right now, there has to be a reason, this HDZ does not do the state, because of the Croatian people, because of the HDZ, for this reason, I am interested in the HDZ why the referendum and why now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120507	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120508	Well, dear colleague Oreshkovic, I said that already in the introduction this morning why the referendum. We had on the table the Law on Referendum, we felt in fact and we saw that he enjoys a quite broad support, offers a whole series of solutions and in fact we all said that he doesn't make sense unless the Constitution changes and constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. And on that trail, thinking that we can get a wider support because there's no, there's no HDZ amendments to the Constitution here. Here they can only be broader changes to the Constitution means that they have wider support. And here we count that we can get broad support and a referendum actually introduce into one frame that's actually better than the ones we have. If we can do that, it'll be better for our society, if we don't try, and we'll keep doing all this the way you said at the beginning, we'll follow everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120509	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Informatics requires a few minutes for their needs, this one at 18 o'clock and 50 minutes we move on. It's 18.43 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120546	Now I'm going to do the same on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with what the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives, propose to conduct a united debate on the following two points, is: - Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and - Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, I would like to say that we have decided to conduct a united debate on the above points as I have announced them. The motions are 92 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 147. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The government has delivered its opinion. Before I give my word to the promoter, we have requests for a break, first in line is a respected colleague of Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120547	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs are asking for a 10-minute recess for additional consultations, above all, to explain why the centre party will vote against this HDZ proposal. The Constitution is a fundamental document of every state. He shows how they're so-called. The eyes of a nation or at least one generation devise the future of their country. In the past 30 years, HDZ has made the state on its own. From election units, territorial structure and beyond. And for 30 years this country has systematically destroyed. At the same time, this HDZ proposal is known to require a progressive opposition to enter the Constitution. In addition to that Constitution, it does not work in other relevant segments. For example, in defining relations between the president of the state and the government, in co-creation of foreign policy, in the management of secret services and in many other areas. No one has ever seen what the constitutional authority of the president of the state actually looks like to care for the stable and coordinated functioning of the state government and what that should mean. We've got leaks of provisions, inconclusive in practice like that that the president of the state can call on the government to hold a joint session, but at the same time without the government's obligation to respect such a will of the president of the state. Honorable representatives of the Constitution are not ordinary laws that change just like that. And it is unacceptable to have democracy or constitutional changes only to the extent that HDZ fits. If we are mature enough as a state, if we have sufficient degrees of democratic maturity, then let us stop treating our Constitution as a dead letter on paper and accept serious changes to ensure our new generations a decent life in their homeland, not somewhere in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120548	The apartment is approved. The second one's up, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120549	The attempt at violence and fraud failed at the first step. You tried to put past the plan before the summer break to discuss the amendment of the Constitution that you want to completely kill the referendum. To hand over all the powers contrary to the first article of the Croatian Constitution under which all power comes from the people, so as to hand over all powers to the Constitutional Court in order to start at the very beginning before the process even takes place and the citizens show their position on a matter to kill the referendum in its beginning. Those who assist you in this may not even realize what it is I hear they're giving up. He won't support you. And this attempt of yours will not pass. You may have been able to deceive part of the opposition for a moment, but you will not succeed before autumn which will be extremely difficult to take away from the people the only institute in which I can, between the elections, express my position on certain issues. In these 30 years of Croatian independence, we haven't had a lot of referendums. You did well, but the citizens still had the opportunity to collect signatures and force the government, remember the monetization, remember the Labour Act, let's remember 67 is too much, make the government give up its moves. What you're proposing wouldn't make it possible either. But as I said at the very beginning, the ones you deceived, which we've been connecting from the beginning, not to go to meetings with you, give up and change the Constitution that would make it completely impossible. The referendum will not pass. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120550	We're going on a third request, dear colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120551	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes in order to warn that these constitutional changes are certainly making something good, as is the introduction of the threshold of turnout and the adoption of a referendum decision that we are not putting ourselves in a position that a very small number of voters are making a referendum but also a series of things that will really make it impossible for a possible referendum, which is why the Workers' Front will not accept these changes. First of all, the real fear of the people cannot be limited to what will be asked as a question in the referendum, here it is very broadly set, Art. 1st, Art. 3. The Constitution, practically by this means any referendum issue can be abolished. The second thing, as one constitutional expert said, is not about checking the constitutionality of the issue, is not a referendum issue of cheese, so if it stays open, so you can't have the possibility of checking constitutionality twice, the constitutionality of the referendum issue, so you can manipulate it, you can ask the question before collecting the signature, and now you can also ask after collecting the signatures. And another paradox of my colleague and colleagues, under these rules of the referendum, we would not be in the EU today, here are the rules of association and unification of the supranational community in such a way that such a decision can be made with more than 50% of the voters enrolled, and in the EU it has come out so that they have entered into the whole, by quite another rule, means double criteria and indeed cynicism. What should certainly be said is that the referendum launched by the progressive opposition, which will be launched by the progressive opposition most likely to restore the right to abortion of women in the constitution, will be our own initiative, which I hope will pass on to the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120552	Thank you very much. The break is approved. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's his first colleague, Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120553	He's been injured. 238, I'm glad the Workers' Front won't be part of this anti-national and anti-referendum coalition, but it's not a good thing to introduce a quorum of acceptance. Why? So because we do not have a list of voters in Croatia, we have almost the same voters as the population and introduce something like that at this point, it would mean that the referendum has to go out and round up more people than it will, for example. HDZ and partners win the election and then make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120554	My colleague Grumo, a colleague of the Grumo, you get, you get a warning, I see that we are going in the direction now already and colleagues of Peovic, she also reacted to the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate and I will now, given that there are many reported, I warn you that I will begin to warn you during this breach of the Rules of Procedure if they will be pure replicas like this now, we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120555	I gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120556	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120557	Your Honor, Mr. President. 238, I'm very glad that there's been a disclosure here and that everyone now sees that we have a progressive opposition that includes We can!, Bridge, the Workers' Front, the SDP that are against no longer collecting 400 thousand signatures but only 250 thousand signatures, too...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120558	My colleague Zekanovic, my colleague Zekanovic, please, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my first warning, I ask you not to do this, I have now warned and I will be really rigorous there now, there is no point, we have enough time, you have by clubs, individually, replicas, there are many mechanisms, stick to it. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120559	A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. 238. Is he disrespecting the MPs, but the fact is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120560	Which, in what way, fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120561	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120562	In what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120563	He disdained the representatives is the fact that he is with you the graver of the referendum, graver of the constitution, graver of democracy, and remains king of dictatorship...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120564	You get your friend Bulj, you get your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120565	...you became Mr. Zekanovic with Jandrokovic king of dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120566	My colleague Bulj you get now and the second warning, the second, two warnings you get, please let's not do this, I invite you to stick to the rules of the game because there are many reported today and it will take a long time to debate and don't do that. Comrade Pavlich, you asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120567	Dear President HS, we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to reiterate once again that Croatian sovereigns will not support these proposed amendments to the constitution as well as the proposed amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Institute of Referendum in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately a dead letter on paper, it just shows because we've been in the last 30 years. had only 3 referendums of which two mandatory and one on behalf of the citizens' initiative. These proposed amendments to the constitution will absolutely resolve nothing in this respect. This only shows that the ruling colors of their own people and the will of their own people and their direct decision in the referendum. The proposed amendments to the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law shall be given to a clean political body by the Pharaohic powers which, in the beginning, will be able to declare any referendum initiative anti-constitutional and will not allow it to be implemented. We all know how the judges of the constitutional court are elected, and we all know what decisions a constitutional court makes, mostly how the ruling majority blinks is left or right. Once again we appeal that absolutely nothing of this kind of change will succeed, and that at the beginning of every will of the people, you will kill directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120568	The apartment is approved. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120569	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes. Here I would like to say loud and clear that the Homeland Movement will not support the change of the constitution, that Croatian people are deprived of freedom of expression through a referendum. Under these rules, what you are now pushing to change the constitution with the left is the question is would the only referendum that has passed, which is a referendum on marriage that is a union of men and women. Based on such rigorous changes, this referendum would probably not have passed either. Therefore, you took away the Croatian people other than money, poverty, dignity, now, with this amendment you want to take away the only hope they had of collecting signatures, so that I can decide some things and changes in the state, unfortunately now with this amendment you will take away their right. Why is it that when you change the constitution why you don't bring 40% of voters out for the elections, 40% of voters, and you wouldn't be sitting there today, and neither would this be the ruling majority without talking about the elections in Split. Why doesn't the censorship of how many voters must go to the polls to be valid? Nothing, thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120570	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120571	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear President, I know it's your right to set the agenda, but when we approach the change of the Constitution, when we have two initiatives that are proposed, then it was expected that we will discuss both of these initiatives. But you decided not to talk about one. It's your decision, only you know the reasons. However, the debate that will be held today and which will result in Friday's vote does not lead to a change in the constitution. It only leads to the start of a process involving a number of discussions on the Constitution Committee, which establishes one draft, which includes consultation with the interested public, which is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 9 years ago and which will only afterwards result in something that will represent an actual act that represents our future Constitution, at least in one part, in a section that will change. I urge you to be open. You will make this decision, you have a majority for it and it is not disputed, but I urge you to be open, to listen to all those proposals that will be made today and later during the debate on the Committee on the Constitution and that ultimately the decision we will make will be in favour of all citizens and citizens of this country. I am convinced that in the Croatian political system there is power to talk, to consensus and to create an act that will benefit everyone, not just one part of our society. That's the appeal I'm giving you. We won't attack, we won't insult, we won't attack on Tuesday to record videos, [[Thank you very much.]] as suddenly as I come to Zagreb, even though it is Monday's session, [[Intruder: A fellow coat of arms, please.]] We'll talk. [[Employer: A colleague of Grgin.]] We'll talk, but I hope you'll listen, too. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120572	You get a warning, you ignore my warning three times, you get a warning. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120573	President-in-Office of the Parliament, and here we are on behalf of the HDZ Club and we are looking for a break, a break of 10 minutes to further clarify and agree on the proposed amendments, both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. When you listen like this by participating in work and committees, they're fascinating now... There are a variety of the thesis that this is just a proposal from the HDZ, that it is excitable, that it has been inserted past the procedure and in this direction all the meals are going, but the fact is, they are speaking completely different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The subjective proposal for amendments is the fruit of a process that lasted, agreed upon, signed by several representatives, not only members of the ruling club but also other members. Unfortunately, in these other parts, all these opposition parties are contrary to all that some opposition parties are contrary to any proposal that stands out for HDZ, and most of them are certain that this substance that is proposed by the Constitution and constitutional laws is being changed, and it is the area of referendum, sub-normised, that it needs to be further defined and we think that the proposed amendments are logically legislative and that they have meaning and life in the implementation of what is important for the implementation of the referendum. No one is contesting any lunches that go towards reducing the possibility of holding a referendum, I think they are wrong, reducing the threshold of the necessary signatures, introducing a prejudicial way of maintaining the implementation of the constitutional issue in order to make all procedures as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120574	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Grmoya, you're the first. Comrade Bulj, you have, colleague Grmoya one, and colleague Bulj two warnings, so I warn you to be careful. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120575	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Katičić has brought forth a series of lies. If we surrender to the Constitutional Court, there will be no referendum because that Milanovic asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the marriage referendum, [[Agreement: A colleague of Grumo.]] And he wouldn't have gone like that either. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] which the Constitutional Court brought down all the referendums. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120576	You're getting a second warning now. I don't know, I mean, I'm asking you to stick to the rules that exist in our Rules of Procedure. Why don't you do it? Now you will speak, colleague Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the club of representatives. You have individual discussions, you have replicas. So don't do it. Comrade Bull, here you go. You're giving up. Okay. Let's move on, break explanation, colleague of Glamuzina, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120577	I thank the president of HS, reporting on behalf of the Social Democrats for the party, and I want to explain why we gave the signatures to this initiative. So in those rare situations when HDZ recognizes that some changes in the country need to be reached by consensus, especially when it comes to the Constitution of this country, yes, we will then accept the opportunity to enter that conversation. We will accept the opportunity to take part in the debate on changes to the Constitution in accordance with our social democratic values and by trying maximum, as far as possible to influence these changes to reflect the thinking of our citizens, the thinking of those citizens who share our beliefs. To be clear, what I know is that no matter how malignant the attacks on us are, especially by those who can least speak of political correctness and morality, we have not voted for a single proposed change. We gave the signature of consent to discuss constitutional changes coming to HS order. Think about it, try to think about it, it's not hard to understand. All you have to do is think about it. We will discuss everything, try to influence these changes in the interest of our beliefs. There is no party in this House that has not argued for the last month, two days, that it is necessary to discuss and amend the Constitution and the Law on Referendum, and now that this opportunity has come to be done, it is now pointing to the fingers of those who have consistently and in principle behind what they have said, that we will discuss this and that in this debate we will defend our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120578	The apartment is approved. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120579	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Istrian Democratic Assembly up to 10 minutes to further consult and look back at all of this. The IDS is the view that changes to the Constitution need to be discussed, that it should be discussed and negotiated because it is a fundamental document, a fundamental legal act by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and on Friday we will support going to the parliamentary procedure in the debate. About the vote, about accepting the Constitution, that's another story in the third step. But to discuss this, it should also be about the referendum, but it should also be about some other issues. I am saddened by the fact that yesterday at a joint session of the two committees of parliament that decide on this, an opposition proposal has not been accepted, part of the opposition to go and another proposal to amend the Constitution into the parliamentary procedure. Then it would be less, a little less hypocritical of the whole story because you need to talk about such things. And another, I would use the President immediately this minute to point out, given the growing population and demagogy in this assembly, that it may be high time except for the Constitution to change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120580	Thank you very much, and your break has been approved. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120581	238, insulting and demeaning parliamentary representatives, insulting the intelligence of MPs, insulting the elemental logic. So, you've been having an argument with your ex-boyfriend from the opposition, and even without your signatures, this could have come here in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120582	My colleague, you're starting, you're replicating... Your colleague Rasdić, a colleague of the Rasdic, gets a warning. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] You're getting a warning this was a replica, no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, since there's been a lot of demands, we'll take a break in 10 hours and 5 minutes. It's 9:00.55. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] I will now call on the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of these proposals, a respected colleague, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a united debate on two decisions to initiate amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitution is indeed a fundamental act, a fundamental document of every state from which its basic architecture is seen, the way of the government, how they are set up and how human rights are laid, independent bodies of the judiciary and others are also seen, and how this Constitution changes whether and how important the document is that the special procedure for amending the Constitution is, and that is, the one in three, in three phases. The first stage is at all just making a decision on accession to change. We are at this stage today, making a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. The second stage is the establishment, establishment of the draft amendments, and the third is the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law itself. For these two first stages of this, so to speak, it takes half the majority of all MPs, and for this third change of two-thirds. So, when the Constitution is changed and the constitutional law is a special procedure and it is an extremely important issue of this very change. What we want, here I am representing and speaking on behalf of 92 MPs and advocates of support for this decision at this stage is quite high. We are indeed going to take this other two phases seriously into account what this thought is, what is proposed, how to get the best solutions because this amendment of the Constitution and the constitutional law is aimed at better regulation of the issue of the referendum. Here on our benches there was a referendum law, and I think the vast majority agreed that he was taking steps towards a better one. However, without a change to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, this all together will not actually bring any improvements. Even one club has asked, in fact, for the conclusion that we commit to entering constitutional changes. Here, we started this first point today, and I don't think these remarks that we're doing something secret or something because if we actually did do it now, I think that in all the media it's already known our intentions and our proposals are actually how to regulate it in the future. So here's my job would be just to say these few basic things that we want to do. We see that the matter of the referendum is indeed substantiated and that there are very few provisions that determine precise and clear actions. One of the important requirements was to reduce the number of signatures actually in order to reach a referendum at all. Today it is 10% of the total number of voters in the list of RS voters. We here propose this proposal not to be a percentage but to be 250,000 signatures and it is already by 100,000 and more than 100,000 less than what it is today. It is also important how decisions are made in the referendum. We see today, we once had a threshold, today we no longer have a threshold, we are now re-proposing to introduce this quorum of support, and our proposal is when it comes to changing the Constitution or organic laws to most of those who went to the referendum, and yet the majority that are for the must be 1/3 for the Constitution and the organic laws, and 1/4 or 25% for those other acts that are being passed. We also have one point relating to the amendments to the Constitution, which is the mandatory referendum on mergers, unifications, exits from communities, and we suggest that most of the total number of voters be required. And one nomotechnical change related to the Constitution, which is that we give the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to resolve and disputes arising from the referendum procedure. As for the Constitutional Court means here is a very important and major change, we have a situation today that when the signatures are collected, after they mean this verified as a sufficient number, and then you can ask for a check of the constitutionality and permission of this issue and then the Constitutional Court comes to the stage and decides whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. We here suggest that this, this part of it be introduced before the signing, means when the organisational committee comes out with the initiative and asks the question that it is possible then to open a check. It can be 15 MPs from the Croatian Parliament, it can be the government, it can be the President of the Republic, it can come before the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court says whether it is allowed or not. According to our provisions, the unauthorized constitution would be regarding issues related to exclusive competences and parliaments, both the president and the government. And also what it means is contrary to our values of the system as set out in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution. Therefore, they would have the right to initiate such a procedure, meaning 15 MPs, government, assembly of the Republic of Croatia, president of the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand they should submit it within 30 days of the date on which the issue was announced, and the Constitutional Court should take a decision on that matter within 30 days. They would also retain that power that the Assembly has today, but provided that these possibilities have not been used, it means that a preliminary check of the constitutionality of the issue is requested if it is not requested and after the signatures have been collected then the Assembly could request a constitutional check in this case. We believe that, in this way, we would improve the important legislative normative framework for a referendum that is indeed quite missing today and all of these remarks that go in order to centralise everything in the hands of the constitutional court. In fact, when we look at the constitutional court today after the signatures have been collected, this one decides on it whether it is in accordance with the constitution, whether or not it is worth it. In this way, in principle, this previous verification if the Constitutional Court said that it was not de facto, it could draw a certain conclusion and the question could be raised again in some way, as it would say, if, if this question is now well put in some other step then we could be able to win this referendum and I think that this is a better solution than it is on the scene today. I have to say here on behalf of the promoter and I was at a joint session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Law yesterday, it was a very constructive and good debate. I'm going to say it as the promoters we're listening to, we've got two more steps as promoters, we're on 92 signatures today, we're aware that in the second and third steps it can go and much more, but we're aware that if the process is bad, it can go the other way. The debate was very constructive and I would say that there were a lot of affirmative actually opinions about that we want to regulate this issue and we really want to regulate it in, in, in the community with, with all the MPs, no matter who the opposition is, who the position is in the way of finding the best solutions, two of us have detected the issues that are open, and this is exactly what the talk was about, whether it was too much concentration put on the constitutional court and whether it was given a really wide discretionary assessment that is one question, and the other question is whether this quorum of support to the referendum was too high or should be put down. These are the things we'll talk about in step two and step three. We're ready to see what the academic community actually thinks, and all of us, of course, will be consulting with the interested public, so we'll actually see where we are. Here, Mr. President, this is our proposal, and we expect support to actually get into these two other steps is whether to determine the draft changes and then bring them some changes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120585	Comrade Bošnjakovic, you haven't done half the work, you have 25 replicas, so we're starting now with colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120586	I certainly hope you won't succeed in your intention because with a quorum this high at the end if you bring it down to 30% instead of 33% which is 1/3, we should probably clap, and it's clear that in this political situation with this kind of turnout, no quorum is acceptable to what goes in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and my question is on that trail. When you, as a Proposer or Government of the Republic of Croatia, offered the Law on Referendum, you have just called upon the code of good practice of the Venice Commission, so you consider it an important argument in the creation of a law that you obviously respect. Why are you not consistent with this, why do you not want to follow the Venice Commission's recommendation not to use the quorum in the referendum initiatives and more importantly that you have against those key recommendations of the Venice Commission, which is that citizens themselves in the referendum decide to amend the constitution relating to the referendum issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120587	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120588	Dear colleagues, the second and third steps are ahead of us, and in the second and third steps here I already said in the introduction that we had already understood yesterday that most participants were actually very appealing to the precisely question of the quorum of support, so on the other hand we will talk about it and we will see where it will take us, from someone, from some to say the figures we had to go, some previous initiatives were moving from 40% to the changes in the constitution, we came here to 1/3, we will see where this will take us, we want to do actually better for the whole, for the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120589	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120590	Thank you. In your presentation somewhere, you indicated that about 2 out of 4 let's just say the question could still be discussed, so that's the quorum of support where we have particular problems meaning with a third part, which is the unification and unification of the national community purely because of consistency, and you could even say cynicism, so we have entered the EU with a number of votes that would not be enough, therefore, by these criteria to be in the EU now that you have put more than 50% of the voter in place to vote for a referendum issue in this regard. And secondly, you said this is the constitutionality of the issue, the constitutionality of the question, you're still open to talking about it, so what's the problem, if we have opportunities at the beginning of the signing and after the signing, asking the question of constitutionality can be manipulated, right, why isn't the issue of constitutionality being asked at one point, in another, it's necessary to define why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120591	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120592	We are ready to discuss anything to improve our system. It was here yesterday on, on this very committee that an interesting question was asked whether we need the majority and that some country is now joining the EU and that is the question, is it not? These are the things we need to find an answer to and then maybe a different set of things. As for this, if we had a successful EU referendum on these thresholds, I could say, perhaps we would have a greater interest and awareness of the importance of going to the referendum, so that we cannot say now either you or I would be one way or the other. It would be at a given moment in accordance with the conditions. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120593	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120594	The consequence of the violation of the Constitution and the assistance of the Constitutional Court of that state is the lowest paying power of our Croatian citizens after Bulgarians. The signator of this proposal, Branko Bačić, is known for keeping black money in black bags given to him by Ivo Sanader. In any functioning democracy, no decent one would sign a proposal signed by Bacic. We testify that Branko Bačić's initiative was supported by 92 MPs in HS. Do you think British parliamentarians or Austrian MPs are crazy because they seek the responsibility of their political leaders? Do you really think you can do your corruption and anti-Croatian work to infinity?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120595	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120596	We have a very important role, we represent a large part of the majority in the Parliament, which actually takes care of the governance of the state. All these results we have, we have become these last 30 years members of the EU, NATO members, are now entering this, in the eurozone, all of this has been achieved by hard work and on this trail and we remain. And this proposal, which is ahead of us, means an improvement and a step forward in building a democratic society. So all that you've been saying is there's a lot of responsibility for people to make all the decisions we make to benefit our citizens. All that was black, which was that zone, there are courts that sanction it and a lot of actually decision and in that direction we have so that on that side and beyond HDZ with all its members will actually work and make decisions to improve this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120597	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You gave up? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[And you're too serious.]] [[Intruder: No, I gave up because it doesn't make sense, this is ridiculous and the Croatian people see it without harm.]] Yeah, yeah. Okay, and you're very serious, unlike the others who are funny. Thank you very much. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120598	Thank you very much. So, the Constitution is Can I? [[Truth hurts, huh? Is it true, Mr. Boric?]] [[Adversity President: Fellow Vidović Kristo, you get, you get, you get a warning.]] I can. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash and I'll give you back 5 seconds.]] Oh, great, thanks. Thank you. So, what I'm about to do, the Constitution is certainly our basic act and I'm putting it that any, any changes should really approach very seriously and very responsiblely, I'd say, very cautiously and not be brought into a situation that one of these fundamental acts changes every moment, which we don't actually do. But at this point, we have yet another request to amend the Constitution, and I, as a proposing, ask you your position, or your opinion. I think it would be much smarter if we had one and the other proposal in the same day because it was possible, to discuss the second proposal, to vote on one and the other proposal, it's about one Constitution, the fact is that two different topics are so I have to ask you as a promoter, what is your position, would it not be better to discuss at the same time, or maybe you have some reasons why you think That's not good? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120599	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120600	We have been very clear that we will go into the amendments to the Constitution regarding only the matter of the referendum because we believe that this is a matter where we can reach a consensus. This second question, which is on the agenda, is not certain that it is possible to reach such consensus, and as far as the substance of this issue is concerned, we also had a recent debate in the Assembly, where we said our fundamental views on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120601	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120602	Thank you very much. The Constitution, above the Constitution is only God and they fought bloodyly for the Constitution and that power belongs to the people. However, what you are doing, constantly, and this proposal confirms that you are gravers of direct democracy, gravers of the referendum, you are gravers of this constitution, which you bury, for which the blood has been shed, you have made that we must give our proposal because citizens who will collect the signatures before announcing to Sheparović, Branko Bačić, Vladimir Seks. And more specifically, it would have been more correct if you'd said we'd end the whole referendum. I call on the Croatian people, initiatives, all of you MPs who, you have a free spirit, let's organise a referendum on the referendum. No questions from the Constitutional Court, Branko Bačić, His best man, Sheparovic, and his best man, Sheks. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120603	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120604	We're not any gravediggers of democracy, we don't end a referendum here at all, he sets himself on different grounds. After all, these rules of the referendum know others in a democratic sense a state-of-the-art, perhaps even more advanced country than we do, so on the other hand, I think this is just a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120605	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120606	Dear colleague, unlike most colleagues here in this assembly, I joined a politician through referendum initiatives. First of all, here I mean a referendum on marriage, which takes place at the time of the SDP's authority, but I think of other referendums, the Sea is land,... a declaration today and I'll say this thing first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our biggest problem was always that number of signatures, 400 thousand signatures, so I welcome the idea of reducing the number of signatures to 250 thousand. But here I have to comment with great certainty that those who are the loudest here today, to protect the referendum, were the main saboteurs and undertakers of the referendum initiatives. I will remind you, when we organised a referendum against Istanbul, then the bridge team invented a referendum People decided to fail a referendum against the Istanbul Convention, and today their mouths are full of referendums and protection of referendum initiatives, and in fact they are the main culprits of the collapse. referendum initiatives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120607	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120608	I don't think we should leave the position to protect the referendum we have today. We should all, in fact, strive together to make this referendum better. That he works better in society in principle. We believe that these changes we put on the table among other things you correctly said with 360,000 signatures we come to need 250, now it was necessary in 15 days to collect we saw according to the bill offered 40 days. So we think that some things are important better than they are today, and that should actually be a tendency for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120609	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120610	Thank you very much. Comrade Bosnjakovic, so we have two directions as far as I see here this morning at this short time how this debate is going to go. One is the populist one, we heard a lady who reads the replicas so she had no injury to the Rules of Procedure to read, so she went outside, we heard those who turn to the public in the night and come to save the people, in the assembly to prevent the debate as far as I understood it, sitting neatly here and the debate flows. So on the other hand, those who really want us to go back 2 months and I don't know how far back when we had the first reading of the referendum law really to settle the matter of the referendum. And for that, we made some moves, offered a proposal. There are also those responsible who want to solve this issue and those who want to take some political points. In my opinion, today's debate will show. In the second and third steps will be what is most important, to see indeed those who will, can and know how to resolve a particular issue or those who wish exclusively to politicise because at the debate on the law, everyone was in favour of going to constitutional changes. And to change the story of the referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120611	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120612	Thank you. This is a political arena where different attitudes and different opinions are expected, different proposals, and I will be pleased if we can get out of it some things that we can put in our proposals for a second step, for a third step and get out of this whole process with one better draft, with one better solution than we have today. No one, no one should take the right to guard democracy, to keep this or that because all of us sitting here together are all actually in that role.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120613	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120614	Dearly respected, the Croatian state rests on three pillars of government, executive, legislative and judicial authority. However, the proposed amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court give Pharaoh's powers to the Constitutional Court or to the Court of Justice and you violate let's say this balance so far. In particular, what the Constitutional Court means may declare any referendum issue unconstitutional if it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One very broad term and I think you're making a huge mistake, and we all know that the Constitutional Court wanted us to admit it or not a political body that often makes decisions in favour of the ruling majority regardless of whether it's left or right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120615	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120616	Yesterday, what my colleague Pavliček said, yesterday this was dominant I could say dominantly at a joint committee session, and in fact, many MPs pointed out that they were given too broad powers. Now that we look at the situation as it is today and today it is. The Constitutional Court today, at the end when the signatures are collected, also assesses whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Another technique and another methodology is precisely indicated when there is actually no referendum. I have to say when I read an initiative before so it's said there can't be a referendum on defence, can't be about finance, can't be about foreign policy, can't be about human rights, can't be about the rights of national minorities, when I saw it I was actually wondering what it could be about, you know. So these are basically two methods that we have to now in this second and third steps in cooperation, actually, as I said with both the professional and all the interested public, actually grind out and see where we are, but now the situation is that the Constitutional Court has huge powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120617	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120618	So when we read the provisions of this proposal of the Law on Referendum which you put into the procedure in March and put it in proportion to this relationship and certain synergy assumptions with the hope of failure, then we come to the conclusion that you have completely and quite franticly taken the position of choking national initiatives because in the current proposal of the Law on Referendum there are already several control mechanisms in the previous part of the procedure before the collection of the procedure from the State Election Commission, from the presentation of the position of the Parliament, the Prime Minister on this referendum, and the Constitutional Court itself said in that position that only it must and may be referred to the procedure after the signatures collected, you are now actually putting it at the beginning of that story. Why, why, explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120619	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120620	Comrade Sacic, if we go with this previous means checking today we'll come by saying the first answer, and we haven't all spent that social energy we want to sign or we won't so the Constitutional Court will assess whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not. If the Constitutional Court says it is not you, then you can re-form the question only this time when you see the argument of the Constitutional Court there is the possibility of making the issue constitutionally permitted. So I think this gives us a better chance of this referendum organization than this situation we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120621	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120622	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, when the laws are passed, when the constitution is changed, I guess the experience of a country is seen. If Croatia had a referendum in its 30s and slightly more years, I suppose the proposal for this assembly should go in the direction of the referendum liberalising itself, not that you are further handing over powers to those who are almost for every referendum issue when they were asked that the referendum issue is unconstitutional. We had a referendum, a referendum on marriage. Why did we have it? Because this high house did not ask the Constitutional Court whether it was a constitutional issue or not. If he had asked him, the answer would have been that it was unconstitutional and you would now be asking about every question, so the Constitutional Court, which you've excavated, is the issue constitutional or not. You can explain that logic to me, and speak as if you wish to make the referendum possible. [[Intruder: Here you go...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120623	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120624	The bush, therefore, is a smaller number of signatures, a larger number of days when it is collected, and as I have already said once, when you ask the Constitutional Court question whether or not the issue is allowed, let's assume that he says no, but from that explanation, why it is not allowed, and you will reshape the question and go with the new question and if you have agreed with the Constitution, then the referendum is possible. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120625	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120626	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleague Bosnjakovic. We know and should remind the Croatian public that the first reading went through this assembly and where it was only important to increase the duration of the signing from 2 weeks to 4 weeks, as much memory serves me. With this change in the Constitution, you go to the censorship that you downloaded when you needed for the EU to enter Croatia. Switching to the Constitutional Court that everything, that has a good share in deciding on the issue, and if we know that the Constitutional Court is actually the expenditure politicians of HDZ and SDP to sit, honor of exceptions, honor of exceptions, to sit in the Constitutional Court, and if you succeed in SDP, as we see that you will seem to agree, then everything is clear and that it actually suits both you and them to go into the change of the Constitution, could change in the second reading all that you counted without censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120627	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120628	My colleague Mlinarić, therefore you still have in this system a Constitutional Court whose, as we say, is final. According to what we are proposing now, the Constitutional Court previously assesses the question, gives an explanation, if it considers it illegal, but you have the right, therefore, to change that question, to bring it into line with what the Constitutional Court says, and then we go to the referendum. I think this, that this gives us a much greater chance of a referendum than the system we have today. I think it's welcome, if we had two weeks, four weeks or 40 days, now I don't know, and also, from 360 we let it go to 200, I think it's 250, I think it's okay to step out. And the thing about the census, we used to have a census, so then we didn't, and now we're returning it again because we think that, the Constitution really does, and these legal organically can only be changed if the majority is qualified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120629	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120630	Thank you, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. You said earlier, I think rightly, that already in this model of Croatia we have too many, great powers of the Constitutional Court already now. I will warn that in the world there is a phenomenon of judicial activity where courts actually change the key rules of society, so the question arises if the Constitutional Court is wrongly interpreted, let's say the fundamental right to life, such as in judgment around so-called. The right to abortion, why would people trust the Constitutional Court for other matters. So you are increasing with this proposal, not reducing, but increasing the powers of the Constitutional Court which did not deserve the trust of the people, and therefore many citizens are skeptical and cynical because they do not, unfortunately, I would like to believe in our institutions differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120631	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120632	A fellow Bartulic, some have confidence, some do not. So we can't talk in some kind of absolute sense that it's absolutely untrustworthy. In any case, there are groups that are considered by the majority in fact, which consider many decisions of the Constitutional Court to be good. The Constitutional Court has been elected in accordance with constitutional provisions. Some say it's a trade, some say it's one way or another, but the Constitutional Court in our court is doing its functions correctly, the decisions it makes are, here, for us, some of them are in our favor, some of us are not in favor, our opinion, I'm not going to say it like this, but I'm still thinking, I'm going to repeat, that this system that we're proposing offers a greater possibility of organising a referendum on a new system than the old one. Because here by old, when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, it's a decision, and by the new system, so he makes a decision, but you can reshape the question and go to the second round and organise a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120633	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120634	Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. The key question of this proposal of yours is why are you afraid of the people who chose you? What mandate did he give you to represent him here? That's the key question when you read this proposal. When you look at what the referendum is for, the referendum serves to tell citizens of any country who are in power to do something wrong and to do something different. When you look at the most developed countries in the world, then it is the referendum of the institute where the people chosen by the people ask this people how to lead the country. Look at Switzerland and tell me that the model in Switzerland is worse than what we have. What is the second problem, what colleagues say, is the transfer of power to the Constitutional Court, it is a question of the inability of the ruling to take responsibility for what is their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120635	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120636	My colleague Brumnic, no one is afraid of the people. The system we are proposing is considered to be a step forward, to facilitate and facilitate a referendum. This is not a transfer of power to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has them today. This is in principle, allowing the Constitutional Court to make a decision, but you as a motion for a referendum, if the Constitutional Court takes the view that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, you can rephrase the question, meaning come to the same, only with a different possible explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120637	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120638	Thank you. Comrade Bošnjakovic, the Constitution has not changed in Croatia for more than a decade through the Parliament. The key to that change more than 10 years ago. It was a conversation and reaching a consensus, in this way we came up with some solutions that are good and some that are in practice and not as good as we expected them to be, you will now be open to a number of remarks which have already been sent to the Committee on the Constitution's meeting yesterday or your position will be what we have suggested or not. This is a key question for us to know if it makes any sense to participate in this debate and in what way, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120639	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120640	A fellow coat of arms certainly makes sense, and we've already talked about it when we refer these decisions to the procedure, of course we need to talk about this second stage and that third stage, and we care very much about actually reaching a consensus. We're not, we're not saying that, yes, we're not hearing. I've already pointed out in this debate that I saw the important points of yesterday's debate, right. These are, of course, this quorum related to, the turnout, the support of the referendum and of course this authority to the constitutional court whether or not to be counted, which there is no referendum at all, such as your proposal of 2018, seems to me or to be given some broad definition that will allow the constitutional court to consider all these issues, but we will discuss not only the ones we are here but I think it needs to be even more widely opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120641	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120642	Thank you. In your presentation, you said you didn't do anything sneaky, quote you. Well, since you're not a summer break, last week, the day before you put this debate into HS, so what it is is a disrespect to the Croatian Constitution, so the constitution is a serious thing and it cannot be smuggled in this way. I'll congratulate you, however, because you've already won a great victory with this, you've won a political victory because you've managed to compromise the part of the opposition that signed this because you dragged them into your snake hug. Your reputation cannot be further broken, for you, it is only your clientele, it is these 17% you had, by overthrowing your turnout you have received power, but you can certainly compromise others because this debate could have been conducted with 76 or 77 signatures as much as you have in the ruling majority so that the explanation of the part of the naive opposition falls in the water I repeat, which has hardly been compromised with this that they now wanted to discuss here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120643	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120644	Dear Rasudiæ, we don't want to compromise anyone, we haven't been hiding anything, we've been having talks with all the clubs about these issues for a few months now, and after that, the public is aware of it, and this is just the first step, and we're still going to talk about this, and after the summer break, you're going to have a chance, and I'd like your club to get involved in the debate about this, to make suggestions, to become and love to be a part of the principle, part of the assembly that can be said to have improved the provisions and improved the Institute of the referendum with us today, which is what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120645	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120646	Thank you. Given all the troublesome points of our constitution, I think we should simply put on a new suit, this constitution would be a new suit, and you went with a proposal that represents a replacement of a sleeve. With some of the thesis related to the referendum I could agree, for example raising the quorum of those who have even gone to the referendum and voted for, but I just want to draw attention to how hypocritical we are in that part, or how much at the level of the daily political needs and pragmatism we change things. The only situation where you have to go to a referendum, so you talk here when you can, when you have to talk about association with other countries, international organisations, etc. When we went to the EU then we deliberately lowered these quorums because we were aware of the small turnout in the situation when a referendum must be held, and now in those situations where we could now raise it, isn't that a little contradictory, isn't that proof of the state's immaturity and unpreparedness to think permanently about something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120647	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120648	Thank you very much. I could agree with you that the constitution could change in a whole series of details, this procedure isn't even changing the sleeves but only one little button, but the consensus is a difficult fast to actually go into a wider scope, this is what we think is possible. As for these quorums you used to talk about, we used to have a quorum, we didn't have it, now we're reintroducing it because it wouldn't be right that the constitution could change really with some little turnout, organic law or so, so we're introducing a quorum of support that we think are okay, but they're going to be the subject of a conversation in this second and third step because the opinion is that it's too high-ranking, so we're open to talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120649	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120650	I thank President HS. Dear colleague, you said the aim was to improve the legislative framework when it comes to the referendum and that through these 30 years. There have been certain assumptions that this issue will be settled. This is just the first step, if it'll come to that we'll see more. What I wanted to ask you because here is often bad, very bad talk about the constitutional court, what do you think are professional people who can make decisions or are there people who sit around who don't know by whose dictatorship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120651	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120652	I have a positive opinion on the constitutional court, I think his decisions are good, thoughtful, they actually use the opinions of professional people outside the constitutional court to make their own decisions. As we see there, until before this called it out, and it wasn't like that, we now have and isolated opinions that arise, let them support the decision, let them actually dispute the decision, so that on this side I could list the whole series of decisions here that I think are very good and that they are very well explained that they are actually in fact very useful to us, and the way in which the Constitutional Court is elected by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120653	The next replica of my colleague, the Voter, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120654	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, the constitution changes once in 10, sometimes in 20 years. And what we need to do when it comes to this is respond with the Constitution to those key social challenges. When we look at the things that have happened in Poland and Hungary since recently and in America in terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms which one, which is the place to actually protect it, is the Constitution. And it's amazing to me that you don't recognize it, that through this constitution we need to protect and further strengthen certain human rights, and also make it impossible for them to reduce both human rights and fundamental freedoms. The point is when you say this is the first step, just opening the debate, making a decision to join a change of constitution, but what saddens me is your narrowness where you put things in a way, in these gauges that we've given and nothing beyond that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It makes me sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120655	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120656	Comrade Voter, this is in a formal sense our proposal, in this proposal we will indeed discuss further and we will see where we will come from. As far as the other questions are concerned, we said at the beginning of the story that as far as we're concerned, this is all that goes because this is what we expect to reach a consensus on. On these issues that you put on the agenda, we had a debate and we actually saw a quantity of disagreement and it is difficult for us to reach a consensus on this, and otherwise I think that the Constitutional Court has made a very decent decision in this matter. Let's just say her argument points to this balance of protection for the privacy of a woman, her integrity and the protection of an unborn child. So all these, all these arguments in the Constitutional Court's decision on the issue, I think they're well balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120657	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120658	Article 238 injured, I feel offended as a representative because my colleague Bosnjakovic thinks I'm not following enough of what's going on in America. So in America they thought for 50 years that what their Supreme Court brought was Enough, and it turns out it's not, that it would have been much easier if the constitution had defined the right to choose, not that the right to abortion had drawn from the right to privacy. [[Intruder: My colleagues voter know you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120659	...coworker Voter, you get, you get a warning, don't do it. Please, come on, my colleague Bosnjakovic, you're the vice president of the assembly, and I ask you to, you haven't been hurt, this was pure controversy and you've replicated and you've received a warning. Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120660	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, the Constitution does not change every day, does not change every year, does not change every term. So the right opportunity is that when we approach the amendments to the Constitution we approach them systematically, to try to bring in all the changes that will benefit and improve the development of this society in fact. You said in your presentation that you were ready to talk about everything, to say exactly, so this isn't a drawn book, we're ready and open to talk, and it's time to talk. Since you recently brought a new programme to the HDZ General Assembly, in which to paraphrasise it stands somehow to advocate a traditional family, but you respect all other forms of family, and you are also aware that the progressive opposition has also given its proposal to amend the Constitution my question is very decadent. Are you ready exactly what's in the HDZ program? And since the opposition came into these amendments to the Constitution? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120661	Comrade Ahmetovic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120662	We've defined ourselves, and we've announced that we put it on the table. Everything you put on the table you as a progressive opposition we'll analyze and see if we can meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120663	My colleague Ursha Raukar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120664	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, a very specific question. According to your proposal, how do you think a constitutional referendum could succeed if it is necessary for the proposal to vote 1.2 million people for, and it has to come out a million and 800, that's by calculation of percentages. And a million and 600 citizens and citizens of this country came out of the last parliamentary elections. So the figures are quite merciless, so in that sense I would say that it is a very clear conclusion that no constitutional referendum will actually be in reality possible, so I would ask you nicely if you could comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120665	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120666	Dear colleagues of Ursha Raukar Gamulin, I have just said several times that we have been very much talking about these figures in step two and three. I'm not sure if this math is about changing the Constitution that it's right for you, there's a fellow Bauk here I'll just consult him if it's possible theoretically, is it theoretically possible that only one, one third, and that they're all for, and then it's a little less than that million and 800, but we're saying it more in terms of theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120667	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120668	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bošnjaković, here about 2 months ago in this high house we discussed precisely the amendments and additions to the Law on Referendum, and then I would say almost unisonally all the MPs here pointed out the need to go and change both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law just to better regulate this legal area of the referendum. But here we hear today part of the opposition MPs are therefore opposed to opening the very proposal to discuss amendments to the Constitution and the constitutional law, saying that we are here something, that we are hiding something, although we have already known for months that because we have been talking about opening this topic, we are chasing a car in Zagreb to prevent something, but we have not heard any constructive proposal. Likewise, what we see is that part of the opposition deputies does not understand that the Constitutional Court is not a court in the sense of a judicial body. That the Constitutional Court can tell one of the four pillars of government in this country. It also raises the question of who, if not the Constitutional Court, should establish the constitutionality of a particular referendum initiative or referendum issue. Who is it if it isn't the Constitutional Court as one of the four pillars of power in this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120669	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120670	Thank you very much. I totally agree with you here, actually. The Constitutional Court takes an important place in our system. It is not an institution of the judicial authorities although very often it decides on the decisions of the judicial authority so that it has some indirect information, but it is not an unknown system that we have that we have the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court also decides on fundamental human rights violations, but that it also decides on referendum initiatives. This is not some special novelty of ours, but simply this is what I would say is one solution that cherishes a good part of democratic countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120671	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120672	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, some countries have specifically prescribed topics that must not be decided in the referendum. Which, in your opinion, issues that would not include food in those that can be decided at the referendum, and do not fall within the part-round assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the President of the Republic of Croatia, as defined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120673	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120674	Well, here's my esteemed colleague Maric, I personally favor you more for that one broad definition where the Constitutional Court, taking care of the values of the system, would decide whether or not it's in accordance with the Constitution, because if I am now, I have seen one initiative that said there is no referendum on finance, no defence issues, no foreign policy issues, no human rights issues, no question about the rights of national minorities, when I understood it, I have asked myself, wait for what the referendum is about. So on that side maybe we should point out some things but actually leave one, one greater possibility of discretionary assessment of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120675	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120676	Dear President, on behalf of Bosnjakovic, on behalf of this, I would like to say that I agree and share your views and views on the importance and roles of the Constitutional Court in the process or in the judicial system as such. Of course he does, there's obviously some kind of neglect here, and he could even say that all state institutions are being demeaned, here, and it's specifically the Constitutional Court. However, I would rather concentrate and try and hear your opinion to clarify on these referendum initiatives to amend this Constitutional Court Act which in some way not in some way but define the time course and handovers of the initiative commits the question that within certain deadlines there is both supply and collected signatures and all activities that I think is a significant step towards what the current situation is when these time-clear frameworks do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120677	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120678	Thank you very much. In fact, this whole initiative should be observed means from the aspect of the Constitution itself and from the aspect of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court but also from the law on the referendum that we had here. As you have seen, this law actually prescribes certain deadlines when these premises are closed where signatures are collected and sets a deadline within which it is necessary to submit them. We didn't have it now, and now we can only guess what was actually going on or not. There is a need for me to regulate as many questions and these technical issues as possible in order not to remain this doubt, but it is a matter of tomorrow's State Referendum Act because such technical provisions I don't think have room here. As far as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is concerned, he is very clear, he prescribes deadlines within which the Constitutional Court must make this decision, deadlines within which this assessment of the constitutionality of the issue can be submitted. That's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120679	Thank you. Comrade Jaksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120680	Thank you very much, President. By listening to your opening part, we agree with some things, some of us disagree, but it is all subject to discussion. But the key issue, given that we know that the Constitution does not change too often, if there is an initiative from the ruling majority, and there is also with those who have joined the way, why does not the ruling majority agree to a more comprehensive package of discussions on changes to the Constitution, and some of the things that we are asking for were also referred to by the Constitutional Court. From the definition of the right to abortion to the electoral units or the conduct of the elections themselves, and it is certain that the atmosphere of discussion and the demand for consensus on constitutional changes does not contribute to these unmistakable media pluts that go out on autumn and define the different role of President Zoran Milanovic in relation to the post of Supreme Commander, because I do not think anyone in this country would want Mario Banozic to become commander-in-chief. It's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120681	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120682	We simply live at such a political moment when we see that it is very difficult to reach consensus. We're very divided on all matters. One has one opinion, the other, the third, and actually those 2/3 are very difficult to collect. And I am therefore afraid that in many questions to open them now to make it difficult to get to that 2/3, and that is why we said that we only go with what we think will be a step forward, and where we expect actually support, and the referendum was exactly the same question when it was on the table of the referendum law, we were almost there to agree that there should be a change in the Constitution and that there should be a change in the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120683	And colleague Bauk's last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120684	Mr. Bosnjakovic, I am very interested in your answer to my next question. What's the problem with HDZ and the right to choose a woman? So your president publicly supports the right to choose. 24 years of HDZ authorities have not changed a law that recognises the right to vote. 6 out of 7 constitutional judges nominated by the HDZ by the Constitutional Court supports the right to vote. 2 out of 3 HDZ voters support this right. In the draft and proposal of the Constitution in 1990, it was the right thing to do, and even when it turned out nothing happened. None of your coalition partners are against it, and some of them support our proposals on the right to choose. And what's the problem? Where, there is no greater consensus in the country than to recognize the right to choose a woman. The only one with a consensus problem for completely unknown reasons because it doesn't make any sense is the HDZ Club. You can explain it to me, I'm trying to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120685	We will find it difficult to comply here, I consider this Constitutional Court decision regarding the assessment of the constitutionality of this law to be one of the better because it has given a very good explanation as I have already said regarding the preservation of the privacy of the woman, related to her integrity, and yet it is related to the protection of the child's rights. So I think it's a very good balance between those two rights that exist. It is clear that the law of the former state is still in place by the terminology of the organisation of joint work, dinars, and such things, but I essentially think that here was actually an explanation of good and what they said in the debate the other day in the Parliament, we said in principle that this question was actually properly regulated by this Law. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120686	Thank you, fellow Bosniak. We have come to an end, so I will now call on the government's representative, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic, to give an additional explanation as to how the government views these decision-making proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120687	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the HS to adopt a proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the president by 92 MPs in HS. The government supports the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution. The proposed constitutional changes bear in mind that the procedure for the adoption of the new Law on Referendum and that the legal area of the referendum will be fully applicable, both by law and constitutional amendments. Also, the proposed amendments to the Constitution will facilitate the launch of national initiatives while at the same time ensuring the legitimacy of the decision. In this connection, in particular, support is the reduction of the required number of voters who can request the calling of a state referendum from 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, from around 360 thousand to 250 thousand voters. The reduction in the number of signatures needed to call a referendum will significantly facilitate the use of the referendum as an instrument of direct democracy. On the other hand, we support the aim of the legislator to ensure legitimacy by introducing a quorum of decision, we believe that the proposed quorums are in art. 87 centuries 3 and art. 135th century 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is suitable for different subjects of decision. As regards the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Government also supports the proposal for accession to the amendments, given that the practice so far has shown the lack of the current arrangement of supervision over the constitutionality of the referendum, i.e. after the decision has been published to collect the necessary number of voter signatures to call the referendum. In addition to retaining this form of supervision, we support the introduction of constitutional supervision on constitutional authorisation of the referendum issue and before the start of the voter signing process, and in order to avoid unnecessary social tensions and division, as well as costs for the organisers of the referendum initiatives. The government recognises that the objective of these amendments to the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law is to make the referendum procedure more legally reliable and more certain. Here, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120688	You have several replicas, first in line, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120689	The tensions and divisions are avoided by respecting the will of the people, by calling a referendum and by facilitating referendum initiatives, not by what you say. I'm going to ask you something very specific, since Mr. Bosnjak has not answered a specific question twice. Given that the Government in the Law on the Referendum calls precisely for the Venice Commission and its recommendations, the Code of Good Practice, as you think of what you also recommend, the Venice Commission, firstly, to have no quorum, and secondly, more importantly, to declare at the citizens' referendum on constitutional amendments relating to the right to the referendum. Please give me a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120690	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120691	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Then I'll continue the sequence, and I'll answer the third question. As far as the recommendations of the Venice Commission are concerned, we have discussed this in the First Reading Act, and I believe that this broader debate on constitutional changes should include all aspects, so in one part and what you are talking about. The right, purpose and direction of these constitutional changes, i.e. more precisely, legally speaking, to launch an initiative for constitutional changes and draft constitutional changes, still has time in HS to discuss all the details you are talking about. If our goal is to settle the matter of a referendum that has not been well arranged so far, i.e. legal gaps in that part, we believe that there is time to explain, apply or discuss all the arguments, so there is no need for any tension, no hidden motives, we all calm down and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120692	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120693	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. So in the agenda of the Parliament is equally the Law on a referendum in the second reading. He stands there, I suppose, waiting to see, that we all see together what will happen to this constitution-related initiative, that is, the changes that should be in the Constitution. What's absolutely clear at this point is that at some point this law will have to be withdrawn and processed and processed in accordance, if it really happens, the Constitution will change. It seems to me that the debate on constitutional changes should also go on, and that should include once again the debate on the referendum law because it seems to me to be a unique package. That if we really want to do something about the referendum, that we have to do it as a single package, and as 101 hands are required regarding constitutional changes, then I think that, in that sense, the referendum law should also be laid down in a way to get a really large majority in the Parliament. So please show me about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120694	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120695	Thank you very much, Your Honor. From the history of work in HS, you remember the representatives of Lesar and the constitutional changes we launched in the mandate of the SDP government, this is the first step, there is another step, when discussing the draft and the third, when it takes 2/3 of MPs to make a real change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you, it's a unique sequence that we need to connect, finally if we want to settle the referendum issue in the Republic of Croatia. If you are, I have listened to the debate, and all the replicas to Mr. Bošnjakovic, so if the attitude towards the Constitutional Court after the elections is the blame of HDZ and SDP, it is the choice of HS that was given to the biggest parties by Croatian voters and citizens of the Republic, if, as a boxing bag, the Constitutional Court, how do you think we will create the legitimacy of any change when the body to be declared to be a political non-professional and political arrests. I don't think our future is bright about it if we spit on our own court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120696	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120697	Dear Secretary of State, about a month ago, I have two from the same community in Switzerland, sent me one photo and said, Marine, look at the referendum in Switzerland where people are wondering if a neighbor can lift two floors on their home and they have organised a referendum locally in the canton because it is not legally envisaged, but if the people will and if people have no problems they will allow it, well that's democracy for you. State Secretary reply to the Croatian people, please, do not bend and scribble exactly how many citizens have to go to the referendum to succeed, I am sure you know that number let the Croatian people hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120698	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120699	Thank you very much, President. This is as if you were asking the question of how much you have collected the signatures, so you kept it secret somewhere, in suspense, so we left room unfortunately with legal gaps to allow political prominence in the referendum law with clear knowledge that in the end this initiative will fall to the Constitutional Court because of the lack of constitutional law, so the money, the will of the citizens, manipulate the people on the signatures, and in the end you say here now the Constitutional Court is some unprofessional political body. It is true that we have put a certain number to be discussed. 1/3 and 1/4. And why did we make such a provision when we changed the Constitution? After 10 years of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, the HDZ did not bring constitutional changes, but then all MPs in the Croatian Parliament with 2/3 of the majority. So the number that should be reduced to less will be crystallized in the debate, but a little more respect for the first step. I think that would be wise for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120700	I thank the Secretary of State. This is what we've exhausted from the debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, first in line, honorary colleague Selak Rasdic on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120701	Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if you've had any doubts so far, you've received a key answer from the Secretary of State. Hey, it's gonna be okay. Hey, it's gonna be okay. I have to link this level of discussion and answer to the equivalent of where it would be. In literature, in film art, in music. No, this response reminded me of one ancient response from the Croatian muscle. When they asked her how she felt about showing up in bathing suits. She said it's okay. Here's the level where we talk here in the Croatian Parliament, and we know where it's okay. The title we wanted we didn't get. Well, that's how good it's gonna be with this proposal and the referendums in the future. First of all, let's take off the gloves. Let's just say the key to this initiative right now. What's the occasion? The occasion is our referendum on Covid certificates and on how to decide during the Covid crisis. It was a big surprise for the ruling because they had no idea that even in times of crisis there could be an incredible 400,000 signatures or that our people could be democratically, civilally activated. This surprise has served as a reminder to understand that urgent changes must be made in the system and even more limits to the right to referenda. What's the point? The aim is to prevent the fall when the real crisis comes on the agenda the possibility of engaged institutional channelling of civil rebellion or the will of the people through referendum initiatives. What are the short-term consequences of that? Street unrest, that if citizens do not have the opportunity to channel their will in an inter-election period through referendums, the only name left is the street. What are the long-term consequences? The long-term consequences are unequivocal. Practically disabling the referendum in the Republic of Croatia. Why are we against these suggestions? Above all, hypocrisy and inconsistency. If we respect the recommendations of the Venice Commission of 25.10.2018 and 8.10. In 2020, as you respect them for the referendum law, then let us be consistent and respect 2 key recommendations that are contrary to your bill. And that's that there's no quorum that's otherwise unacceptable with this low turnout because if this quorum that was proposed was respected, none of us would be sitting here because we wouldn't have democratic legitimacy. So we are looking for greater legitimacy to plead in a referendum that is more unusual for our citizens and by nature things have less turnout than in the democratic elections that take place in the four-year cycle. And secondly, a key recommendation from the Venice Commission, ask the people instead of political trade, ask the people in a referendum what they think about amending the Constitution relating to the right to the referendum. Now all of a sudden, the Venice Commission and its code of good practice became arbitral. We can, we don't have to, so it's not mandatory, but it's a key argument when we propose a referendum law. Second, why are we against it? The role of the Constitutional Court. Not only is the Constitutional Court given power because it comes to apriori before any initiative, before the signings are collected, but it enables the full authority of the Constitutional Court in the sense that it can react at any time, in a threefold sequence, before the initiative, during the initiative, and perhaps after the initiative when we talk about the issue itself. Furthermore, the various vague formulations in that key part of these legal changes that are less talked about, which is not the Constitution but the Constitutional Court Act which speak of the exclusive jurisdiction of the assembly, and no one knows exactly what is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the assembly, so we can assume that this will be interpreted by the Constitutional Court. Then they talk about a serious procedural error which may also be an argument for the abolition of a referendum issue that violates the constitutional identity of the Republic of Croatia, so you ask yourself what identity is and what is exactly a serious procedural error, and it is as possible even during the signing process. So, all this uncertainty in the formulations in practice will be manifested through the will or willful political decision of the Constitutional Court which we had previously been able to prove in practice when we were able to testify to the unseen so far, and that we have our constitutional question on our referendum initiative that is in accordance with the Constitution, but is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution because the Constitution in this dualism did not agree with itself. With such suggestions of this quorum and the roles of the Constitutional Court, it is extremely cynical for you to rub the eyes of the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public here by reducing the number of signatures. It's like someone told you you'd be locked up in jail, but they bought you tickets to the Bahamas. It's gonna have to collect less signatures just before you have to get out of prison that you can't get out of because you're sentenced to life sentence. With this role of the Constitutional Court, we will never get to the point where this required number of signatures will be collected. And in conclusion, I'm going to say something about this problem because we've approached this issue very seriously and constructively what we're proposing. So, we have opened dialogue on the round table because we believe that this issue is of broader public interest with representatives of unions who had previously had successful referendum initiatives in the sense that they manifested themselves within the law although the referendum did not allow them, with representatives of the profession, with representatives of NGOs and those who also had referendum initiatives. What do we suggest? Yes, reduce the number of signatures, extend the deadline to collect signatures, change the choice of constitutional judges, ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for a referendum on amendments to the Constitution in accordance with the Code of Good Practice, listen to practical suggestions about making it easier to collect signatures through the system of e-Citizens, writing data with the governmental signature of citizens on public surfaces and in private places so that it can be easier to obtain signatures and allow citizens to declare their will. And yes, let's do the quorum and limit the role of the Constitutional Court, because I'll just say it one more time. If we disable the only institutional channel of expression of civic will in the coming time of the crisis that comes to us, the only thing you leave for the citizens is the street, and who will answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120702	A fellow coat of arms, please, I'm sorry I haven't noticed yet will speak and colleague Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120703	At the end of the presentation on behalf of our club, it reminds us once again that in mature democracies, the referendum law serves to enable the referendum to be arranged, and with us obviously to disable it. You say this is long spoken of and prepared, etc., so why didn't you announce it in time for the agenda, but the day before, you get into the way you did it. We saw a very similar model on Friday, as it was in the agenda of the High School and Science Act and when, on Friday afternoon, far away from the eyes and the media and the public and the MPs leaving. With the indignity, we refused to invite HDZ to discuss what is before us today because how, after brutal referendum theft, to accept the invitation of whoever did it. Well, it'd be like if you were handcuffed, you were a feather, and the fox called you at a symposium where the fox discussed how better to protect the chickens. I am saddened that some geese have gone to the fog to continue this animal metaphor, several geese have strayed, I hope that this fog will clear up and see that they are committing political suicide rolling in this undemocratic mud along with HDZ. Two, three turkeys have also strayed and some ducks. And the only thing HDZ has achieved is one political victory because it has hardly compromised part of the opposition. It's the only result of this whole story. So even as we refused to participate in this kind of conversation with such an actor, we also reject this proposal with indignity. Don't rub your eyes on the Croatian public, you who were in opposition yesterday don't sell the story that you gave your signatures because you and the promoters are only here to discuss it because it was quite 77 or 76 signatures of the ruling ones. So, in the end, we, as a club, refuse this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120704	A colleague of Glamuzin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120705	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238, such insinuations are indeed extremely incorrect by someone who had to verify in the public notebook their lie that they would not co-ordinate with HDZ and helped them create two governments and then they would say that they had come out of that government because they had not yet come from the shock that Plenkovic had thrown them out of the windows. So that demagogue, the con man and my club are gonna tell me that we're doing something different. except transparent, consistent and principled. [[Intruder: colleagues of Glamuzina...]] He won't. He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120706	My colleagues, Glamuzina, understands your reaction, but it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because this was a replica, not a mistake in the procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Now it's on behalf of my colleague, the coat of arms, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120707	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it is fascinating that some of us sitting here in a assembly where one of the most important tasks should be to change the Constitution, it is fascinating that some of us do not know how this Constitution changes in the assembly. It's even devastating. The constitution changes rarely. In the assembly last time more than 10 years ago. And that is why this is an opportunity to try to reach a consensus, an agreement on what is now necessary and possible to change in this Constitution. This process is being initiated in a way that the Assembly decides to approach the amendments to the Constitution, after which we will conduct a long hopefully constructive debate on the Committee on the Constitution. Once the Constitutional Court has established the proposal, carry out consultations with the public concerned in accordance with the position of the Constitutional Court for a period of at least 30 days, then vote for the first time, then return everything to the Constitution Committee and only after such a majority and such agreement in the assembly has reached 2/3 of the Constitution. That's the way. And that's the path that'll wait for us in a few months ahead of us. That is why I am extremely sorry that the ruling majority today did not allow a second proposal to change the Constitution that has been submitted, but since we are talking today about whether or not we are going to initiate the amendment process of the Constitution then I have a lot of right to say why I believe this procedure should be initiated. And it needs to be launched to get an opportunity through this course that I was talking about trying to convince enough MPs that there is one right in Croatia that needs constitutional protection. And that's women's right to choose. It is the right of a woman to decide independently and freely about birth. It is a woman's right to decide independently and freely about her body, but it is also an obligation of the state to ensure assumptions for the exercise of that right. It's a human right. It's a civilization achievement. And that's important to us in the SDP, and that's what we're gonna stand for. But what is even more important is that it is important for citizens and citizens of this country who, not 2/3 of the majority necessary for the change of the Constitution, but rather support Croatia's institutionalisation and protection of this right and through the most important fundamental act of this country. Through an act that regulates a set of human rights that our society protects. The right of women to choose must be in that circle. And that is why we want to approach the process of amending the Constitution. That's why we want to talk about it. If we finally vote to change the constitution will depend exactly on what we have asked the ruling majority to answer. And that's if you're open, are you ready to talk? Today they said they were, but let me not believe in our society words just like that, we will do things. And the works will depend on how we ultimately end this process. Only works and only deeds. Whether the space for the protection of women's rights in Croatian society will be open is our condition and we want to talk about it. It's on the table and no matter what you didn't put it into discussion today, we'll talk about it, we'll insist on it. However, while sticking to the Rules of Procedure, I must speak at least a little in the part of this debate about what is the proposal of the ruling ones, which is a proposal that will ultimately lead to us opening this debate. It would be hypocritical of me to talk about that the proposal to regulate the referendum decision in the Croatian Constitution is unnecessary, and it would be hypocritical because the SDP proposed this 10 years ago, 5 years ago, which we said clearly both this and the previous year when we talked about the Law on Referendum, the amendment to the Law on Referendum without amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is not enough. In fact, it's as funny as it was funny that we, in this whole referendum procedure, have changed the will of the HDZ only by law which determines the financing of referendum activities without having arranged the referendum itself. That was funny, but that's how it works when the house is built from the roof, not the foundation. And today we've come to the point where we begin to edit the foundations. As I said 10 years ago, we initiated a change like this. Back then HDZ was against it and it was not possible, even five years ago, and then HDZ was against it. Today for reasons I will not enter, which they must explain today, they say this should be arranged. Come on, finally, it's in your head. However, the proposal you plan to arrange for is simply not good. The issue of a referendum decision in the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court rests on the 4th pillars. All those four pillars need to be fixed. One question is the number of signatures, we in the SDP think it should be reduced. Totally clear, cut the number of signatures, extend the time limit to collect. The questions that are allowed for a referendum decision, our Constitution says nothing about it. Through the practice of the Constitutional Court, a very uneven and very questionable one has created certain ideas of guidance that it can, which it cannot. With all due respect, no one knows what he can do, which he can't do in advance. That is why we believe, not in the way proposed by the HDZ, but in the way it has been regulated in the constitutions of a number of other countries that it should be clearly stated in advance that it cannot, among other things, be clear to all those who opt for referendum initiatives whether this initiative will pass or not. As suggested, yesterday we discussed this on the Committee on the Constitution, and this was spoken by the professors of constitutional law, who should be teaching students, who do not know what is allowed, and what is not, they do not know, too broadly set. And you're talking about us questioning the Constitutional Court, no. We question that the Assembly waives the right to be the one to decide what it can and can't, and it leaves it entirely to the Constitutional Court. It's the wrong way. We must clearly and in advance say what is allowed, which is not. The third pillar, prescribing the quorum, that the quorum must be prescribed. We had some suggestions in 2013 and 2018, but today we are open to these proposals, but the quorum must be. It cannot be allowed to be a theoretical situation in which one person will come out and support something enough to succeed the referendum. Especially when at a local level, and we need to talk about it, we have a 50% plus one decision-making quorum. Almost nowhere will a local referendum ever succeed because of that. And that's what we need to talk about. The quorum must exist, but it must be reasonable. It must be reasonable to allow a referendum decision but not to turn it into a travesty again. And lastly, and very much related to column number two of what is allowed and which is not the question of defining when and how the Constitutional Court decides. The current system is not good, it needs to be improved, but not this way. I think it would be right that the referendum initiative itself must initially collect a certain number of signatures that will allow it to go to the Constitutional Court. In this way, we will prevent the manipulations that are suggested here. But I also believe that there are other things we should do now, and this is an opportunity. One of them, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the Constitution define differently how constitutional judges are elected. One item in an article needs to be changed. Let's do it. So when we talk about the problem of the Constitutional Court's action, one of the biggest criticisms in the way the Constitutional Court works is a matter of the public's work and we can do it. Ensure that the Constitutional Court decides publicly and publicly. For the end, we in the SDP want to access the amendments to the Constitution [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But what they'll end up like will depend on us if we do. [[Thank you very much.]] in that third step and support. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120708	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Mrak Taritas, and a respected representative, Oreskovic, will speak. First honorary representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120709	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues, as you know we are Club of the Centre and GLAS, so on behalf of the GLAS, I will speak for myself, and on behalf of Mrs Dalia Oreshković, because our views regarding this first question at all, did they really get the conditions to initiate the Constitution or constitutional changes related to the referendum or do they differ? And that's why I think it's fair that we both say our views. We in the Voice when it comes to such important things take a stand starting with the next one. First we analyze the existing situation whether we are satisfied with the current state. If we are not satisfied, then we try to say or consider what our goal should be and how to reach our goal. We with the current situation when it is tied in a referendum the way the matter of the referendum is defined in our Constitution, constitutional law and laws is not good. We're doing three steps and we're discussing this first step today. Whether or not we have the conditions and whether we think the conditions have been met to raise the issue of change in the Constitution and then through a broad debate in which everyone will participate sees what needs to be changed. And we think there's a condition that needs to be done. And then, of course, in step two and step three on time, we're going to say our position. What I'm kind of sure is that we can all agree here more or less, and that we're not really satisfied with how the referendum was resolved because if we were satisfied with the referendum there would be more. If we were satisfied with that, it would be different. And we have to go back to 2010. In 2010, two-thirds of this same home made it easier to hold a referendum. For what reason? To facilitate Croatia's accession to the EU. And today, looking back, I'm sure that's how it was meant to be done then, but now is also the time for the matter of a referendum to be more careful, more careful, more systematic. You can't solve this with an axe, cut the Constitution, you can just say that when you put all the problems that are on the table, discuss the problems and see what and how further. It is clear that the lack of a provision on the required majority in relation to the number of voters can theoretically lead to a referendum being called, that a single man who can make a fateful decision comes upon him. Today, we colleagues and colleagues have such a solution. Let's all ask ourselves together, we're happy with them. Likewise, let us honestly say that due to the lack of regulation of the referendum in our legislation, the constitutional court has replaced this issue through its practice. And regardless of the frequent criticism that this Constitutional Court was exposed to, he played a significant role in some things. Filled in some legal blanks and cleared up some misunderstandings. However, a serious state if we really want it to be impossible and must not rely on the activation of the Constitutional Court as a substitute for the Constitution and the laws. Today we have the Activism of the Constitutional Court that changes the Constitution and the laws. And regardless of when this activation in some cases also plays a positive role. That is why we believe in the GLAS that it is necessary to open the process of amending the Constitution when it comes to the referendum. We don't have a dilemma. What I asked the promoters and said to me it would seem fair and correct that today was equally on the agenda and the point of amendments to the Constitution regarding women's right to choose. So it seems to me, and I'm sure, not only does it seem to me that it would be one step if we really wanted to have one country in which we regulate, in which we respect democracy, in which we respect and respect the rights of all others. But we're going to have to do it in the fall that and that topic comes up on the agenda and we're going to do it. And we in GLAS won't be hypocritical, so for one motion, the constitution regarding a referendum, let's say, vote or not vote, and about the abortion equally. We will vote, or I will vote on behalf of GLAS, for the launch of constitutional changes related to the referendum, and with great ferocity, great energy and great will and regarding women's right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120710	A respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120711	Thank you. The rules on the referendum should undoubtedly be improved, but the referendum is neither the main nor the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we had successful referendum initiatives that even changed the Constitution. We had those initiatives that managed to collect signatures, so HDZ managed to stop them with its engineering and reliable Constitutional Court. So that works for them, too. We also have those referendum initiatives like those for the monetization of highways that have achieved their political and social goal without having even come to the referendum. So, although these rules are not perfect we can say, of course they should be improved, we can say that the principle of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia works in contrast to many other areas tailored in our Constitution that simply seek serious, serious reform. First of all, let's start with that we don't have a credible list of voters, and we're talking about raising or lowering the threshold. Let's talk about the fact that we don't have the constitutional design of election units and that we need to take care of it. In the Constitution itself, the relationship between individual branches of state authorities does not work. The relationship between the president of the state and the government does not work in key issues of co-creation of foreign policy and management of secret services. A number of provisions of the Constitution are simply unarranged, practically in the daily political life of the dead, we have the authority, constitutional authority of the president of the state to propose a joint session with the government without the possibility of such authority ever being exercised because the government has no obligation to respect the will of a man with the highest original political legitimacy in the Republic of Croatia. And nothing to anyone. If two branches of the executive government, the president of the state and the government disagree on those issues where they should cooperate, there is no way of institutional control. This means that in fact, our model is wrongly set in those key, key concepts that define the existence of a state. And I repeat, the main problem is still not a referendum and referendum issues, but corruption, the judiciary. If we want to change the Constitution I suggested it several times publicly, let's change it as suggested by GRECO back in 2014 in its fourth evaluation round. Therefore, the international organisation of the Council of Europe which is specifically monitoring this area. If we want to strengthen the position and independence of the attorney general, it would be advisable to extend his term from 4 to 6 or 8, but without the possibility of re-election and re-election. All of these are questions that would have asked us as a single race, as the 10th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament reached one and a political one, and would have said civilizational, social however you want moral, cultural maturity to talk openly about the main problems of our country and to reach some consensus together in one dialogue, in one respect of experts. And that we, like this generation, say that the present and future of our inhabitants will look like, rather than agree to that amount of democracy that has been re-coordinated exclusively by HDZ rules. In fact, the promoters of the Constitution are the fathers of a nation, the founders of a country's state legal order, and at the time when independent state created political creators were Tudjman, Sheks, HDZ structures but then they had the help of the then intellectual and legal elite. Today, our constitutional experts have shown themselves about what they think of this HDZ referendum initiative, but none of them presented themselves as the author. This is simply a continuation of the idea of a political party who has been building a state for 30 years, for 30 years systematically robbing it, is also legally convicted of corruption and as such a political party does not have the legitimacy of the direction of the future Croatian Constitution, and especially when only one who wants to achieve some of its trivial political points from the whole palette of problems, That's why I'm against it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120712	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120713	Dear Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the referendum has largely become more important in recent years than the issues of the Constitution itself and constitutional provisions and its implementation. It has become one of the central issues of political life and political competition that is actually taking place in the world-wide perspective, and much less in the perspective of rights, interests and what we might call a rational political decision by any citizens or people, whether we are representatives and representatives of the people, but there are such periods in every country's political life, so it exists with us as well. I find it extremely important that we get out of this as rationally as possible and not fall into some kind of populist fungi or some kind of limiting people's rights to a referendum to protect those who rule in the name of the people and who can alienate themselves from the people. In this sense, seeking a solution to disputes concerning the conditions of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the Law on a referendum is probably the most important issue and the most important issue that is raised before us as representatives and according to political life, representatives of political parties competing for citizens' trust. This rationality and demand for measures in this rationality, I believe, is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and I, most important in this business. That's usually the case when it's right, and it's probably the same when it comes to any decision being made in the interest of the common good or any good if it's not just because of our private well-being. So, the solution so far that we have had the circumstances that have already been highlighted in the speeches of previous colleagues and colleagues that about the referendum, the decision that the referendum is valid de facto can be made by one voter or one citizen or one citizen is certainly something that needs to be changed and that change has been introduced here. That change has several degrees. When, in addition to what is defined by the Constitution and where there have been public referendums, there has been a college referendum and, in this respect, the SDSS Representatives' Club considers that the decision-making of 1/3 of all voters is a proportionate and rational framework or a rational level of decision-making for things in which, when compared to what is voted on by 2/3 of the majority or what is defined by organic laws in the assembly itself. When other matter is determined by a quarter of the total number of voters, we also consider it rational and proportionate. When it comes to association with other countries, especially those who become or become members of the state union to which we belong, which is the EU, there is a threshold raised to 50% or over 50% of the electoral authorities, and there is someone yesterday who seems to have drawn attention to the possibility of opening individual disputes between the moods of our electoral body in the given political circumstances and those who are candidates or candidates' potentials, for example. for EU membership. The SDSS Representatives' Club also considers it especially when due to the situation of relations between countries in the former Yugoslavia and the Western Balkans, there is a risk that the referendum could be a means for mutually continued political conflict. And I'm going to say so much at this stage of the debate about it and that we should consider how to avoid such things if possible. As regards the reduction of the number of signatures, which was a frequent complaint, particularly the representatives of the people's initiatives, there is noted that from a mere 10 % of the signatures that were to be collected, this number was also reduced to 250,000, which is also seen as rational and proportionate to what the legislator in this case defined as a necessary number in order not to reach some kind of suppression or some kind of inflation or some kind of inflational use of referendum initiatives. As regards the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the part in which it is mentioned which issues could not be called for by reference initiatives, and that the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court gives a preliminary opinion, before it starts to pursue a referendum initiative and collect signatures whether such an initiative is in accordance with the Constitution, we also believe that this is a good position regardless of what would probably be better if such provisions were laid down in the constitution, especially in the light of the provisions of the constitutions concerning fundamental rights and freedoms and the provisions of the constitution which define fundamental human rights, fundamental minority rights, fundamental rights of different social groups in the country, and I would also add those issues that can cause serious world-wide conflicts in society and which can serve only the destabilising of political life in the country, and in no way help to resolve such issues through political and political dialogue. As far as the issues of clarity of certain provisions are concerned, and in the proposal to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, I have an understanding of the position of those who think that we should make these provisions clearer during the next debate, simply so that the Constitutional Court does not suffer unnecessary doubts that it will arbitration in matters in which it should not be arbitration, although neither I nor my club belong to those MPs and representatives in this assembly who believe that the Constitutional Court is a political place and that it is a priority and that it is a place where we cannot be trusted in advance. It may be some kind of our party political attitudes, it may be some kind of our way of understanding the decisions of the Constitutional Court and I have often been in a situation that I was invited to think in such a direction, but I don't think that this kind of approach creates a legal culture or a culture of institutional order in the country, especially if it's not created if the labels are shared... that these are political people, that this should be abolished and that this is not the place to decide on anything because there are people's geniuses who will decide on behalf of the people and create public change and public will, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120714	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120715	Dear chairman, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Here we have already expressed our public views on these accelerated, sudden and truly extraordinary initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, primarily representatives of clubs, especially colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, but all others on the draft amendments to the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so I will just remind myself briefly. So, we inherit our Christmas constitution from the '90s, the highest values and testify that our constituents made it clear about this, that the dawn of democracy in Croatia came from the people, that it belonged to the people, and that we set ourselves there for representative democracy, but left as it was written then, the possibility that the people would make their own decisions, directly decide. However, due to the extraordinary war circumstances, I suppose this is the main reason, it took many years to come in 2000. One left liberal government and, in this legislative body, to initiate this process of amending the constitution and operating and implementing the provisions with the introduction of the National Initiative Institute and, therefore, in spite of all the huge, huge criticisms which I often refer to many of the government's actions, we certainly express, we express one extremely, extremely great commendation for this, for this step and thanks to these constitutional changes, the people could indeed in practice have had a great impact on political life in the Republic, so the people in this forest, in these regulations, but also in a certain legal vacuum of legislation, along with the interventions of the state bodies and have indeed had a great impact on the political life of the Republic, so that the people in this forest, in fact, in this particular, in this law, the law of the institutions of the state and the law of the Republic, had been the right to change the law of the right and the right to the right of the people, that the right of the people, and the right to the right to the right to the right of the right of the law, and the right of the law, the right of the law, and the right of the people, the law, the law, the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law, and the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the I'm not talking about mandatory referendums right now, but that college guy was. We even had this successful constitutional referendum on marriage, and when we look at today's perspective, it's not good to start with a restrictive desire and a provision to completely stifle the people's initiative by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by amending the Constitutional Court Act, and we do not forget in parallel in the 3rd month we had on the table and we still have a government proposal to amend the Law on Referral. In fact, when we study all this together in synergy and analyze it then we come to the conclusion that the main goal of the rulings is unfortunately with one number, amazing for me, is not to me, but to me it's amazing, with a number of our colleagues and colleagues who have objected to this proposal as I realized today that some of them have actually made this proposal open, which I think is okay, so we're opening that debate. This proposal is fundamentally incompatible with the general principles of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and with the provisions themselves, because it cannot be interpreted at all rationally as why, for example, against the people and the free and equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have decided to go out in an articulated legal procedure in front of the Croatian public, an organisational committee controlled by the State Election Commission, to which certain bodies even the Assembly, this assembly, according to the proposal of this referendum, gives its position, even the President of the Republic will give its views, even the Prime Minister formalisedly give its views, which we will publish in the National Journal and has a whole series of mechanisms of control whether this initiative is in accordance with the Constitution or not, we are now putting a decision on the preliminary assessment of the constitutionality of these issues of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and with the completely flat, unclear interpretation of the principles of the rules of law and the rules against the rules of law. So it's all one such fluid, one phrase, which can significantly disable any will, any desire at the beginning of the Croatian people to say the opposite point of view of ruling policies. And that, in my view, is the main objective of closing these initiatives, that these initiatives, that the provision, by chance, applied to the Constitutional Court's preliminary assessment of constitutionality, so I am absolutely sure that they could never change the Constitution in part of what the people decide regarding the Constitution, constitutional change that marriage is a community of women and men. Many of this would not have been achieved by trade union initiatives and out-of-courting, Labour, Pension Law, many things would not have been the case with regard to other initiatives of this one, and therefore we are as a Club of Croatian Sovereigns of the position that we must not support and appeal to both colleagues and colleagues not to support it because it has not been specifically completed, it is not explicit and it can as such be socially dangerous for democracy in the Republic of Croatia. It is in itself incomprehensible that you are the Croatian Parliament in fact there... which has regard to the supervision of the entire system in part as provided for by our Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the majority of the transfer and despite the opposition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitutional Court, let's not forget he himself said he didn't want to talk about it, if he had to, he'd actually be extremely clear about these referendum initiatives and issues, but this ex post when they were already collected, and he didn't want to get into the state of the referendum decision process before the initiative was launched at all. Therefore, we believe that it is not good, and the quotas themselves should also be updated because we, in fact, have brought down the quorum, the quorum of that decision, and at first glance looks pretty good from 300,000 to 250,000, but on the other hand we have extended the deadline, but let's not forget by the referendum law, we now have the possibility that the referendum activity extends for 40 days, up to 45 days, with the fact that up to 30 days it is possible to collect signatures, and only 10 to 15 days to count lists actually prepare all of these to be referred to the Croatian Assembly. On the other hand, the State Election Commission has decided for 30 days that it has the right to count. So we can say thank you, we are moved by state secretaries as you say you have started the changes to protect democratic life in Croatia In order to reduce tension [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and especially because of the impact on our financial situation as an organisational committee. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120716	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Emil Daus will now speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, it has been said more than once today that the constitution is a fundamental legal act of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is also a change of it that requires a broader debate, perhaps some compromise and, of course, a consensus as much as possible when adopting its amendments, and especially in a situation with such a ratio of political forces in parliament, in the assembly. The constitution also does not change every month, not every year, and therefore the proposals for its changes should be approached with extreme responsibility. The IDS is the view that this amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be discussed in HS and that the issue of implementation of the referendum should be addressed and we will vote on Friday to support the proposal in the parliamentary procedure. Such acts as the constitution, such as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, should always be discussed, discussed, negotiated, and voted there in the third step on this, but discussed. But the questions I ask myself are as follows, does everyone really want to settle the constitution, if they really want to settle the referendum issue or whether they want to politicise and use these two questions for some political points, which is legitimate, but again I ask for responsibility and for the sake of a basic act of the Republic. My colleagues and colleagues did not come to parliament to deal with statistics but rather with politics, and I think it is noticeable, not only to demagogue, but to try to do as much as possible for society, for the country, for the region from which I come from, and therefore I tried to send a message by putting my signature on the proposal for accession of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, not because it was important, because it was important, because the ruling had enough hands but to send a message that such a proposal should be discussed and that it was necessary to discuss it, perhaps it was not politically wise, but I did it, but not that I would certainly vote for, of course, to change the constitution, we are far from repeating it. But perhaps a little naive, perhaps I wanted to provoke, I expected a similar or at least somewhat similar message from the other side, and here I mean, of course, the proposal of the liberal parties and the left parties to put in the parliamentary procedure changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which aim to ensure women's right to be elected, and no one of course expects it to be accepted in the first step, and yet we're all different, we're all looking at a lot of things around us, that is, the essence of democracy, but I expected to allow debate in the assembly, and it would be ideally like some colleagues and colleagues said that it was going parallel, if both proposals had gone, then it would be really fair and we would fight with arguments, okay, someone would try otherwise, it's legitimate, someone using more populist rhetoric, someone's dealing with content, but they'd fight with arguments. But at yesterday's session of the joint two parliamentary committees that decide on this proposal has not passed and the message has been sent to me guilty, and that is the difference between those who support the debate and those who do not, of course there are other ways that this proposal can be done but I believe that it will be done, I mean the opposition proposal, but yesterday it was an opportunity to do it more elegantly, so I would say more correctly, but unfortunately that opportunity has failed. And I would take another chance, I may have talked about it twice here, once asked the prime minister a question at the current morning, when it comes to changing the constitution to point out that the provisions of the existing text of the constitution are not sufficiently implemented, and I don't mean only guaranteed rights of minority and endangered groups in society, as well as violated achieved civilization values, but also provisions relating to the rights of local and regional self-government. To us as regional strangers, this means, maybe a little bit more, we were eventually one of the ones in the government that was in that 20 years ago. And, and brought in and the name was then a compromise of the area and regional, he didn't mind just staying regional self-government, that's what my colleague Bauk remembered yesterday, so that after 20 years. We are finally starting to implement constitutional provisions, and that regional and local self-government becomes what we should actually be, and that is self-government in the full sense of that word, and the precondition of that is, of course, a decentralised state, and the result is a decentralised state, here is thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120718	In the name of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the honourable representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120719	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here we have come to this moment to open the debate here in Parliament on the proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the constitutional law and on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. This is not how the people would say the topic that fell from the sky and we didn't know it was going to happen, it's the topic that we're all discussing backwards for some time here in HS about whether it is necessary to change the Croatian constitution on a better definition of the theme of the referendum. And yes, that is why I will remind myself of the fact that all of us together when we discussed here the new Law on Referendum actually said some of the thesis that seems to me to be unique to all of us, which is that the amendment of the Law on Referendum is not enough, that it will in some way remain a dead letter on paper unless it is followed by changes to the Constitution, but also amendments to the Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court. And at that very moment, it seemed to me to us at the Social Democrats Club positively that someone heard what the parliamentarians here were saying about this speaker and what they were saying, it seemed to me that we had come to a phase in which we could open a political dialogue. Political dialogue right where it must be held in the Croatian parliament. The place where we were elected by Croatian citizens. And here we have an obligation to represent all of them. And those who have one ideological preference and those who have another ideological preference. We here must be you to hear the voice of everyone. And that is why we from the Social Democrats Club have given signatures and supported and strengthened this initiative by wanting to open a debate on amendments to the Constitution on the matter of referendums in the Croatian Parliament, which will be attended by all MPs and MPs, where we will not negotiate at bilateral meetings any circumstances of amendments to the Constitution right here, in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament or on the relevant Committee on the Constitution. Also, we at the Social Democrats Club had no dilemmas even at the time that colleague Katarina Peovic came out with a proposal that the right to free decision on women's birth should be defined in the Constitution. We also supported the opening of the debate on this initiative, but we also made it perfectly clear and decidently said, we are not the ones who are going to trade with one or another initiative. And we said that consistently with what we've been up against all of our political lives. We remain consistent with exactly what we have suggested in previous years that changes should be made in the Constitution. We remained consistent with the idea that a woman in the Republic of Croatia should have the right to choose, we never had a dispute. And we said what the elements are that the right should be realized. And we said that at this point in time for the non-fulfilment of that right, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible because there are laws in the Republic of Croatia that allow this right but are not enforceable. And we called, just as we called the government of the Republic of Croatia to act according to that plan. Why am I saying this now? Because today it would be very correct for all of us to find ourselves together on the issue that the amendments to the Constitution are like the highest document of this country that has a short but difficult history, place and time to talk in the Croatian Parliament. To talk by the rules, according to the predetermined rules. To define how the Constitution can be changed and to define how a referendum can be implemented because it is extremely important for us to make direct decisions in a democracy where power comes from the people. And not some body at some point according to its ideology to decide whether this people are right or wrong. The last one must be the one the people said. For us, there is no dilemma, whether we like it or not. And that's the situation we've had, and we're consistent with that example. And I won't doubt, this proposal that we sat down with the ruling majority and talked to colleagues and colleagues from the opposition is entirely on the trail of what our former party proposed in 2018. And we don't run away from it. And yes, and yesterday we said publicly, this is the beginning, but for us it's not enough. In 30 years, Croatia has created a state and achieved all its national goals, those of foreign and domestic policies. We will end this story with, say, entering Schengen, entering the euro zone and some other issues, but did Croatia strengthen society during that period, whether it built it the way citizens deserve it, how they should. These are issues that we believe should be opened by a large, broad debate, but not only here with representatives of parliamentary parties but with the entire academic community in the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, we made that clear yesterday and I'm gonna do it again here today. We believe that the moment is to open a large round national table that will now outline the new strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia which will be the basis for a comprehensive amendment of the Constitution. This comprehensive amendment to the Constitution should provide answers to all these questions that you colleagues and colleagues have opened here today, and we have today had questions not only of women's right to free birth decisions, not just of the referendum. We had a question of territorial structure here, we had a matter of national security and all those issues that actually stem from the Constitution. And yes, the answer to these questions should be given by the Croatian Parliament. And yes, we cannot delegate to other institutions to decide what the referendum may or may not be discussed. And yes, this is the first step in which we are ready to enter into a debate in step two and in step three we are ready to say about each individual issue our detailed position and try to jointly repeat through dialogue to reach consensus and the best solution for our citizens. And yes, what we have now given 10 signatures and what we are ready to discuss today on this subject does not mean that our votes will be among 101 votes and 2/3 of the majority necessary for the final amendments to the law. This isn't Bianca's signatures, this isn't unreserved support, this is just accessing and opening a conversation on topics we've talked about before that needs to be changed. And yes, we agree with everything the colleagues in the opposition have said, that the quorum of decision-making may be too high, we have new censuses, we have new circumstances in Croatia, but this quorum of decision-making is far easier than the one we proposed together 5 years ago. or 4, that we are ready to talk about that quorum still coming down, that we are ready to talk about the number of about a million voters who should be the number for making changes that come from the constitution, that these are all topics that we need to come to a consensus and I repeat, as many have said, we open the debate, we stand firmly behind these signatures, that does not mean that we are all thinking alike in the club and that we will not have different discussions, but that means that Parliament is the place of dialogue and that it must be, and that we will finally see whether we will support the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120720	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120721	Good afternoon, everyone. France's ruling majority in its parliament these days begins with the process of introducing the right to abortion into the French constitution. We had the right to abortion entered into our constitution in 1974, every man's right to free decision on the birth of children and that right from that constitution disappeared. This right here we asked for 40 MPs and a representative to return to the Croatian Constitution and to have the abortion become a constitutional category again, which HDZ refused. The HDZ now has, it is going to change the constitution in the referendum segment, refuses the proposal of abortion, to return the right of abortion to the constitution, but they say they are ready for all negotiations and all talks, are not, nor open to any negotiations, nor to any talks, and this shows not only that they were not ready to be included in their proposal for constitutional amendments to our proposal, so that, as they said, some have only signed to discuss here why we could not discuss this, but not only that, but watch out for the same category of sufficient numbers of MPs and MPs who have tabled the amendment of the constitution and HDZ with our initiative, but HDZ's proposal has entered the agenda today, and ours are not. So much for openness to negotiations, conversations and all kinds of suggestions, there's nothing to it. So, one more thing, why isn't it there? Well, because two of the three HDZ voters agree with us, it's not something HDZ wants to talk about, it's something HDZ wants to put under the carpet, and that's why we're going to go to the fall and with our initiative in the assembly, if it has to be with a referendum initiative where we will welcome HDZ voters who will sign our referendum issue. But HDZ and these changes and changes are trying to make our referendum difficult, so I'm going to talk about it now, and our initiative at the third item of the agenda today. The HDZ initiative goes against the People's Referendum although there are some things we can agree on or try to make it difficult and I will try to analyse the HDZ proposal on our example. So HDZ's changes are only good in one segment, which is a segment of reducing the number of signatures from 10% registered voters to 250 thousand, so a little less than 400 thousand should now, so it's now down by nearly 150 thousand signatures, that's good and it's a good extension of the deadline for signing, the referendum will be able to sign 40 days instead of 15 days, there's an estimated that more or less any referendum initiative can collect a sufficient number of signatures and there's no fear here and it's missed as some form of greater democracy because you watch everything here that we see as examples and suggestions we have to look at from the aspect of greater democracy, this is greater democracy, is it. The quorum for the referendum is not necessarily bad, the referendum should represent the will of the majority, not the tyranny of a minority who, with the help of the church and other institutions, can impose his agendas, but the quorum cannot be unrealistic, is it? According to the HDZ proposal, the referendum goes through if 1/3 of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia support a referendum issue to change the constitution and the organic laws, I will start here from the end, and it is impeccable that 50% of eligible voters are required for association and disunity in the supranational community. If there is a larger hypocrisy, the constitution has changed to join the EU only to allow the number of voters to join the EU, means most of the voters left, could have been 3, so that 2 would have joined the EU, a million 960 thousand voters went out, a million 298 and a few thousand voters voted for the EU, which means about 1/3 of the voters enrolled, should now be more than 50% registered voters. Should we now repeal the referendum on EU accession, while HDZ will not, but you know what we are going to do, we will change the referendum rules on how this suits HDZ. If we came into the EU with a let's say somewhere 1/3 of the voters who voted, the minimum honesty would be to keep it that way or this is who from Hotel California songs from Eagles "You can check-out any time you like, but you can never leave" In the autumn comes recession, comes inflation, we enter the Eurozone, we lose the final lever of the possibility of autonomous monetary policies. There is no impossible Greek scenario where we know how difficult Greece will deal with its recession at the moment means losing those levers, and HDZ wants to ensure itself. By the way, before entering the euro zone, Slovenia was called a transition tiger, when it entered the euro zone it actually stagnated. The austerity measures, which means lower wages, lower real purchasing power, higher unemployment all waiting for us in the fall, HDZ wants to make sure that any changes in favour of themselves and its chieftains who look at the EU and some of their benefits are quite private. Namely, I will say another thing in the Constitution is a homophobic definition of family as a community of men and women with less than 750,000 voters, and it would be enough if 3 voters had come out and if 2 had voted for the issue, the Constitution would have changed. Now, the HDZ demands that in a referendum of progressive opposition to the fall to restore the right of abortion in the Constitution, the rights that are hard to vote, for decades it has been in our Constitution, it has been fought by women, it is now raising quotas. The HDZ now argues that 1/3 of the voters enrolled need to vote in favour of the referendum, beware that the vote on a referendum issue that changes the Constitution, that's over a million and 290 thousand, 290 thousand voters, I apologize if any other figure, I've come up with that figure means approximately, but that's the same question we need to discuss. So it's not clear exactly how many voters it takes, and that's really the serious problem. But it is clear that they want to make the referendum initiative difficult to restore the right to abortion in the Constitution. They will not succeed, and their voters will vote for our question and will support it and their voters. But what would be a minimum of honesty right now is to say that those quotas are coming down. In any case, no more than 25% for merger and disunity, for the law certainly not one quarter of the voters enrolled, for constitutional changes certainly not 1/3. With regard to limiting what the referendum can be called on, I understand those who are in the opposition and have themselves asked for such a thing that they cannot be against it now, but still need to be critical that the referendum issue is limited to Articles 1 and 3. Of course, these articles also contain good things, freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, respect for nature and the environment, rule of law, democratic multiparty system etc., but this is so generally written that practically every referendum initiative can be banned. We here give the carte blanche to really limit and ban any referendum initiative not to say that the question of respect or inviolability of ownership in this article can also be questionable. The Workers' Front would ask this question, of course, and most democratic ones need to agree on what we think, by recession and inflation and by the loss of any leverage of monetary, autonomous policy, will increasingly be present as a question in our society whether Paladin should keep everything that has been obtained legally because the integrity of ownership is entered into our Constitution. The constitutionality check only for the end, means the constitutionality check before the signatures are collected under their proposal may be requested by 15 MPs, president, prime minister or parliament, but also after the signatures have been collected. And there's really room for manipulation to actually see if this initiative is going to collect signatures or not, so if it does, then we're going to go shut it down. I don't think we have a solution here, but that's where things should be resolved, perhaps in a more precise way, and not that at any point the issue of constitutionality can be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120722	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120723	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, so here as I was saying in the opening of the call for proposals, this proposal is not only a proposal from the HDZ, but all of the 92 MPs from this high house have joined this proposal, therefore the initiative and, as has already been said many times, this is the first step that goes towards further changes. I think it's a very good consensus that indicates that this move, or initiative, is more than justifiable. Unfortunately, it is fascinating, and I, as a man in practice, that the debate which was held on board yesterday from today's replica, or the debate which was on the applicant's opening statement, was given me to read the fact that it was not trusted to state institutions, and in particular to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is the body which is the most and the fourth-degree part, the classical constitutional court to be tried, but the body that outlines one of these outlines the situation and, in some way, the correctness of all those other bodies that can be read. This only confirms the composition of the Constitutional Court itself, in which not only lawyers but also others, representatives of other professions and political and other social life. As the referendum is known as such is a form of direct public statement on certain issues of particular importance to the narrow or wider community. From this, it is concluded and mentioned as if there were no referendum initiatives and held referendums in the Republic of Croatia, which is simply not true because several referendums were held, but from different types, some were at national level, some were at local level with different outcomes, and the initiative of both referendums and folk initiatives was much more, so the argument that the referendum is not correct in Croatia or is not supported by anything because the very fact that there is such a number of such initiatives as the referendums and those held points to a completely different problem. I have to take a moment, of course I'd like to look back on behalf of the club, or the way this initiative happened. As I said earlier, this is one of the first steps in the amendments to the constitution or amendments to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law and this initiative did not come to the relevant parliamentary committee simply because it suddenly occurred to either the ruling or someone, but it is simply the fruit of one long-term communication and coordination of work here with other clubs and, as the promoter himself said, and therefore it is possible to read and put forward the position of the HDZ Club which initiated this referendum that there is good will and strength and desire that all constructive proposals which are, will be addressed to this further procedure that praises are valuable, that they are welcome and that they will be properly and verified or included in the proposed text of amendments to the Constitution or amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law. It is clear to me, or to the HDZ Club, that the proposed amendments to the constitution itself are quite clear because of those pains that have occurred since the identification of the required number of voters, which can only be requested to call the state referendum, and to the necessary majority to decide on a referendum, i.e. So-called the already mentioned quorum of decision-making. He was proposed within what he is now, and I think it depicts the real state and possibility of what would be the will of the citizens. So these meals that go with some way that they're too high or too far and there are comparisons with some election results, I think that's where they want to mix pears and apples and two completely different legal terms and areas to be classified in the same direction. I would also like to refer on behalf of the club to this part, which is also mentioned by the Venice Commission, that the Venice Commission as such issued recommendations, they are recommendations, they are not in their power any legal act that should be included as such in anyone's legal system, I think it is quite clear to all, but I would like to warn that here in some way, not some but only a provision of 7a is mentioned. and, these rules of the Venice Commission and therefore, some conclusions are read, and that provision is not mentioned in paragraph 7.b. which then follows and which is clear and unequivocal... It also recommends that the referendum issues include what quorum of statements and how a quorum of exit is needed and most votes are needed in order for the referendum on which the declaration is valid, and therefore such ones are simply not, and I think that, for the sake of that matter, it would be necessary for the full provision of that article from the Venice Commission, namely 7.a. and 7b. to mention one and the other, rather than partially to represent only one part that applies and which is accepted as such and perhaps in some way modified corresponds to a political purpose. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, I think that with the sequence of all this we've heard and what was the amount... Our representatives, the HDZ Club, thinks that these proposed amendments to the constitution, as well as amendments to the Constitutional Law, will improve this legal area of the referendum, and will facilitate the maintenance of both mandatory and optional referendums, and I also think that the launch of the National Initiatives will, while at the same time ensuring the legitimacy of the decision, be improved, and I think that the amendments and additions will also ensure the constitutionality of the implementation of the referendum area itself, because this will ensure and any unequivocal situations will still be dealt with by the Constitutional Court as much as it wants to be diminished and put aside, I think that this is the only body that can be credible and in a proportionate way to implement constitutional all provisions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I also think that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, the Constitutional Law, will be achieved and further strengthened by the democratic standard of society, ensuring transparency and openness of the procedure for the implementation of the referendums themselves, and will in a more consistent and direct way strengthen and more effective influence of citizens in the decision-making process itself, political decision-making and will be seen clearly and their interest and input to each decision-making. Therefore, the HDZ Club, which is clear to you all, will support the proposed draft amendments to the Constitution and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120724	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120725	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have talked here several times about the importance of referendum initiatives and opportunities actually for citizens to participate in decision-making, especially when the legislator is making an appointment. Our position has always been that the most liberal regime of the referendum must exist at local level because it decides exactly where the issues closest to the citizens are, that, of course, the legislative referendum must exist, and it is the constitutional referendum that we really agree and we feel that we should also have a certain quorum of decision-making, and I will explain why and why we feel that the constitution should be opened and that the referendum matter should be regulated and that the number of signatures needed to launch the National Initiative should be reduced, however, why we will categorically be against the proposal that HDZ made and suggested to us because I am telling you that if this proposal was adopted we could never again have a single successful constitutional referendum initiative, never, and perhaps once in 10 years. could have had a somewhat successful legislative referendum initiative, and now why is that? I will begin first with the powers of the Constitutional Court or by amending the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. These amendments shall give authority to the Constitutional Court of First Instance of the Constitutionality of the issue at two levels, at the request of 15 representatives or the request of the Government, the President or, at his own discretion, the Constitutional Court may, within its general supervisory authority, initiate a preliminary assessment of the constitutionality of the issue itself. When we talk about a previous assessment of the constitutionality of the issue, we must say that it is not an advisory nature, it is not designed as a process of agreeing and improving issues, but as a process in which the issue can be rejected and the referendum initiative stopped. And why it is important that there is a referendum initiative with a particular question, and even if the issue was eventually declared not to be in line with the constitution. Because the referendum initiative opens a public debate on a matter by asking a question and this public debate on a matter may be the most important, richest part of the democratic process. We're asking a question on the table, experts are involved, citizens are involved, and we're discussing a matter. Two referendum initiatives that did not end in a referendum at all, which were extremely successful in their intention, such as "We do not give our highway" and the referendum initiative "67 is too much", would be possible for these provisions to be stopped at the very beginning, the public debate would not be opened, the signatures would not be collected and the government would not withdraw from 600 plus thousands of signatures that were collected and where the government then only decided not to go to the referendum but to withdraw, we withdraw the bill in either case. And so we stopped monetizing or privatizing to be a real highway, but we also made sure that, at 65. Croatia retires and protects some basic labour rights, so on its own, by launching the initiative. Stopping by the constitutional court of the initiative at the very beginning would prevent this kind of public debate and that pressure on the government and on most in the assembly. What else is the authority of the constitutional court, how is it defined in this proposal? It was defined in a way to say that the constitutional court can, on two grounds, assess the referendum question whether it is in accordance with the constitution. First, whether it is in accordance with the basic provisions of the Constitution or Article. 1st and 1st Article. 3., secondly, whether the issue in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament, government or president of the Republic and in that bush lies the biggest rabbit because there is no defined which, which are constitutional powers in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament, government or president of the Republic, so it could be said that any referendum initiative that has budgetary implications is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament and the government because it is the budget, so I ask you whether the referendum issue "We do not give our highway" would be declared an issue which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliament and government because it has any budgetary implications or referendum "67 is too much" too. So we have to ask ourselves what powers we have for the constitutional court, or for the majority who then exists to the Constitutional Court, to assess the referendum issue every time and again. Our view is that it is necessary in advance to prescribe which articles of the constitution define the exclusive powers of the parliament, government or president of the Republic. They're also listed here in an explanation, but not in the proposal itself. So here it says the constitution does not know the state referendums for appointments and impeachment, there are also issues such as war and peace decisions, order the use of armed forces, although no state of war has been declared to show confidence to the government, by giving pardon, by proposing the adoption of a state budget, etc. We agree, these are some exclusive powers of Parliament and government. And in some part of the President of the Republic, but let's also say, in the proposal for constitutional amendments, a referendum cannot be launched for these, these and these issues, respectively, for these and those articles of the Constitution. And everyone will know that these are articles of the Constitution that they cannot, which cannot be decided on in a referendum. Furthermore, what is our additional problem with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the granting of excessive powers which are not clearly restricted, so far as their restriction is concerned. The area of arbitration is opening. We fear the truth of this arbitration of the Constitutional Court, especially the current majority in the Constitutional Court, because the Covid decision has shown us that they are ready because of the short-term interest, the short-term interest to ignore the fundamental postulates of the Constitution when they have said that the ordinary parliamentary majority is choosing whether to be limited 2/3 to most in the assembly in making decisions that restrict human rights in an emergency or not. So the basic principle of brakes and balance is in the trash. And yes, that's why I'm afraid to let that majority of the Constitutional Court assess just every referendum question is whether or not it's in the exclusive jurisdiction of some majority in the assembly and some government. Furthermore, the quorum of decision-making for the amendments of the Constitution I agree there must be a quorum of decision-making that we can't have a cadaver situation to come by that 5% of people and change some basic provisions of the Constitution. However, the quorum of decisions that you have set makes it impossible for us to ever again have a successful constitutional referendum initiative. It will take 1.2 million people plus a little more votes to propose a referendum initiative. Which means if you have the ratio of the only constitutional referendum initiative from 2013 then the ratio was 66:33, 66% voted for, 33 against, in this ratio it means that your overall turnout must be above 1.8 million, which is 50% plus all voters enrolled in the Republic. Which means we're asking 200 and a few thousand people to vote more in favour, to go to a referendum than to parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120726	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues are here two days before the summer break, it is a very important topic and I am sorry that this is happening just when citizens are not giving much attention to our work. I wish it were different, but I'll take the opportunity to point out some things again, and it's too bad there aren't any more MPs in the assembly. I think this is an extremely important topic. So, regarding the amendments to the Constitution, I agree in principle that this must not happen often. The Constitution must be a fundamental act of each state, have one power and not be exposed to frequent changes depending on public opinion and the like. However, today we have a proposal on the agenda that will, in a new way, regulate some issues, the matter of referendums and similar questions, which is very important for us, which when key institutions such as the Constitutional Court misread fundamental principles. When he's misreading it because it's their mission. So maybe the public doesn't know there's a Constitutional Court of 13 judges, their choice isn't very exposed in public space. So, I'll read what the terms are or who can be elected judge of the Constitutional Court. So, it chooses the Croatian Parliament in time of 8 years from the ranks of prominent lawyers, particularly judges, state lawyers, lawyers, university professors and similar to the term of office of 8 years. In other words, I would say to older democracies that choice is highly exposed to the court and does not last just one day. Therefore, not only do they come to the hearing of the Assembly Committee one day and notices, answer questions and move on, but it takes if it takes days and weeks. And then the public can learn about the attitudes of those people who will interpret what the Constitution allows or does not allow. So in Croatia, I would say it's very depressing, people don't know who these people are, they're anonymous, they're largely anonymous, and I think it has to change. However, I will look back on some of the last decisions that I consider to be deeply wrong and not only with constitutional provisions but with common sense. For example, about the already famous rule of law, the right to abortion whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not, among other things, constitutional judges say that it is not in their jurisdiction to interpret or determine when life begins but is a matter of legislation, legislation. So once again I'm going to repeat there's no Catholic biology, there's no Islamic biology, there's an atheistic biology, there's a biology. There's biology. There's no Catholic medicine, there's no Islamic medicine, there's no atheist medicine. And in line with the knowledge that's unquestionable, I think that's what any reasonable person should accept, so certainly constitutional judges, but they don't. So they relativize, even ignore some basic knowledge of science, and then we get into difficult problems because they don't depend, some things can't depend on most of this House, when human life begins, it's supposed to be undeniable, and not to let us ignore biological data and interpret it into various things, I haven't actually heard a coherent theory that claims otherwise, if it's not conceived, then when human life begins? Therefore, it is only one example that does not put trust in the work of our judges, when they can be wrong about such a fundamental issue, and this proposal does not only affect the powers of the Constitutional Court, but increases them. That's what we need to worry about, the powers are increasing. I mentioned the phenomenon of judicial activity in the replica of my colleague Bošnjakovic, judicial activists, that should also concern us, so it is a practice in many countries where, by the way, most citizens are determined and actually judges become politicians, activists, in promoting certain ideologies. This should concern us and this practice comes to Croatia, it's not just a thing in America where it took 50 years to correct a mistake but it comes here and here, so judicial activation and what to do when judges and judges of the Constitutional Court are wrong, where are our mechanisms? They're gone. They're gone. Therefore, we need to be very careful when increasing, not reducing, but increasing the powers of the Constitutional Court. The people should be concerned, often come to me by our citizens who say they don't know who to address, who to represent them in the Parliament because simply the people choose us the way they choose us, through the party lists. So that feeling of impotence and that their voice is not heard enough, remains. And we see this in fact through various examples of the past with failed referendum initiatives how our institutions so those who control and manipulate us actually manage to narrow down and prevent the people from expressing their will. These are actually worrying tendencies, so whenever we talk about issues where we do not agree, we should still have more confidence in our own citizens, we represent them, not some third people but the Croatian people, people who chose us and therefore, the Homeland Movement will continue to raise their voice against any narrowing of freedom of expression, so I see, as well as others who mentioned it earlier, the danger that no referendum initiative will be allowed with such interpretation, and I will repeat, the Constitutional Court has not justified its work of trust. Unfortunately. We have in general one crisis of trust in the institutions and also in the Parliament itself. Therefore, we should look soberly and avoid, I would say demagogy and other species, I would say political low arguments and say in principle that citizens have the right to determine some fundamental issues, it is not, as I hear, about the question of marriage as a community of men, one man and women, homophobia, it is a labelling when there are no arguments, not a Croatian people homophobic people, but in accordance with what they know and what they believe they have voted for and we should be there, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional patriots, constitutional patriots and not ignore that constitutional provision. Often from the left, it is insisted that civic education must enter schools, but it is interesting that civic education in this form does not mention that constitutional provision and that the people voted in the definition of marriage. It's ignored. So we're selective to constitutional principles when it suits us, and when it doesn't fit, then we ignore it, everyone sees it. That's what our citizens see. Therefore, let us be consistent, the Constitution is a serious topic, we need to clearly and well define how it can be changed, we trust in Croatian people, they voted well for the '90 referendum. when it was decided on its own Croatia, in '91, therefore, we must understand our responsibility, and I will repeat again, that the key institutions and those individuals in the Constitutional Court have failed several times and we have reason not to believe in their judgment. Therefore, we will continue to be very critical of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120728	Now we will continue to discuss our united two points. We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120729	First of all, I will say that it will not be all right because it is not a topic that should be discussed in this manner exclusively in the Croatian Parliament, but rather on the subject where citizens are in the referendum, I will repeat once again, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, what they think about amending the Constitution that will change the way they decide in the referendum. When we talk about who was supposed to participate in this debate here, it could be heard from certain opposition clubs that we need a wider national round table, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've had this before, we've already organized it last week at the Croatian Parliament. They called on union representatives, university professors who specialize precisely in constitutional law, representatives of NGOs who oversee democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia and representatives of those initiatives that have successfully held referendums so far and of course all interested parliamentary representatives. Unfortunately, as is often the case with our club, we haven't seen anyone, and now we're hearing about how a round table should be organized. Regardless of this, we have launched a debate on how the referendum issue should look to the Republic of Croatia and I will correct my colleague Sacic, and here I see him from the parliamentary representatives except for the representatives of our club and in dialogue with key social actors, have drawn up some solutions, respect their proposals that I would like to highlight here in line with what we have previously advocated when we talk about regulating the referendum issue in the Republic. First of all, when we talk about amendments to the Constitution concerning the citizens' referendum on the referendum, we ask about these amendments to the Constitution. It is their fundamental right and they have the right to decide on it. If they advocate such changes as yours and I don't believe, and therefore you probably don't, then we can discuss it further, and that decision, or the amendment of the Constitution, will have legitimacy. Second, no quorum. So that is what is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. In the current situation that when we have about half a million voters less than the official record of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, when we have about 185,000 voters outside the Republic of Croatia who are hard to respond and the turnout is small, this really is not the time to install any quorum, at the very end of the line, it is also the recommendation of the Venice Commission. Furthermore, what we advocate is facilitating the referendum initiatives, it is definitely reducing the number of signatures needed to secure the referendum in the Republic of Croatia and also extending the deadline for collecting signatures. One of the key changes that should take place is the change in the way constitutional judges are elected. For example, we can take quotas according to the excellence of legal experts in branches of rights modeled in Germany. In Croatia, out of 13 judges, none of them are professors from any law school. In any case, the choice of constitutional judges needs to be changed. We also advocate a number of practical solutions that point to problems encountered by previous initiatives, which is the possibility of collecting signatures through the e-Citizens system. So let's make it easier for the citizens to express their will. To enable volunteers to enter data with the government signature of citizens, collect signatures on all public areas and private places, as for the presidential elections. So these are some of our very concrete proposals that we have made after we have listened to in a constructive debate and representatives of the profession, but also the practitioners, those who have organised referendum initiatives in the Republic of Croatia so far. And this is the way and the only democratically correct way to settle the referendum issue in the Republic of Croatia, and you who occasionally call on the Venice Commission and the Code of Good Practice when you edit the Law on Referendum from the ruling structure, when it suits you, and then ignore it here when I tell you that you don't need a quorum and that you should ask citizens at the referendum about the referendum, just prove by their own hypocrisy that you are not prepared to dialogue on how to edit this key A democratic issue in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120730	We have one replica of the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120731	What may be most raving in this proposal is essentially an enormous increase in the powers of the Constitutional Court. We now have one situation that a body that is 4th as a pillar of power does not belong to this judicial one but should be judged whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not, we have seen a volunteerist one, I would not say legal but more rhetorical acrobatics explaining why 400 thousand signatures collected for the signing of the referendum, among other things, one question for a change of the Constitution, is in accordance with the Constitution, but to God brings citizens into confusion and it is not acceptable. So now that body becomes an absolute cover aprior to show the people's will as prescribed by Article. 1 Constitution. So instead of going towards a better definition of the role of the Constitutional Court or even its abolition and the transfer of powers to the Supreme Court as resolved in many countries, which would also result in a solid budget savings, we now have a hypertrophy of the roles of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120732	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120733	There is no official referendum initiative approved by the Constitutional Court in Croatian democratic history. There are amendments to the laws that occurred because of certain signatures collected, these were trade union initiatives, and that no referendum was allowed, and there was one referendum that took place in the Republic of Croatia, which is because the issue did not go to the Constitutional Court. For all other issues that have been articulated by legal experts of individual initiatives sent to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court did not allow them. And why is that? Because each government sees the referendum as a referendum against itself and fears the referendum of its own citizens, and the Constitutional Court, the way the choice of constitutional judges works, represents only its extended hand. And that's why I agree, it's worth considering if we're going to change the choice of constitutional judges, if we're going to transfer powers to someone else, but this situation is certainly unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120734	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Damir Habian, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120735	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's just for a little while on behalf of the promoter a few things to look back on. So today we're listening here by colleagues from the Bridge as this was something hidden, they didn't know anything, they were not at all aware that they were going into any process of amending the Constitution and constitutional law on the legal area of the referendum and were terribly surprised. Then on the other hand, they're now saying that last week they organized a round table on that particular subject. So you deny yourself, so what you've organized on that topic when you are, and why you are, because you knew which way you're going, so I don't see the reasons why you're turning the saw upside down now. You're also saying that, or we were listening here when you were collecting these signatures for a referendum on Covid's certificate, how difficult it was for you, that you were freezing yourself, that it was winter, that you needed to change something, that we were listening to when we talked about the Bill's proposal on the referendum, and then you asked for the same thing, and most of the opposition to change something, to change the Constitution, to change the constitutional law, and now we have, we're starting this first step, so we're going, we're going to approach the amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law, just so that the legal area of the referendum would improve, you've reduced this number of signatures, so you said that a big problem under these weather conditions would collect almost 400 thousand signatures, now we're going to be 250, so now it's not good, so your argumentation is very, very bad. You're talking here about the recommendations of the Venice Commission, but you forget that in these three steps we're going to have.../incomprehensible/... that we're going to have a public consultation. So anyone who is interested, and according to you, and I am sure that this is the case, every Croatian citizen will be able to participate in this process. He'll be able to tell what's bothering him, which is not good for him, which he thinks should be better, so what you're saying is you're just showing again that you have this modus operandi, that you have this narrative that serves only and you're going to use this procedure again only to collect cheap political points and that you're not at all credible because you're disabling yourself, so you're saying one thing an hour before this, and now you're saying something quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120736	Replica of respected MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120737	I'm being honest with you, fellow Habib is torturing the sequence of your logic and it's bothering me why there's nothing bothering you in your proposal because you've put it out in the middle of the line. First, the fact is that last week we talked about a referendum and started a dialogue with wider social players in this matter, and you didn't do the same, shows only that it was important for us, and the fact that you changed the agenda overnight, which was already set in a different way without this point, shows that you are manipulating the agenda to impoverish the debate and that you suddenly and unplannedly would push this issue through before the summer break and that all talks about your credibility. And when we talk about what had to be done and about collecting signatures we've certainly given you good directives here, the only problem is that you don't want to listen to them and you showed it with this agenda. So, you have recommendations from the Venice Commission, you do not need interested citizens to repeat that in their comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120738	Thank you. Dear Representative Habiban, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120739	Thank you very much. So I'm glad you volunteered for the replica to re-depress yourself, so now you've said again last week that you organized a round table with a wide public interest with experts, and I say all the time today you point out here that something hidden was inserted overnight on the agenda. So you're here as much as I am 2. in HS, so I guess you've already been able to look at and read the Rules of Procedure and the way points are included in the agenda. So this procedure began precisely on the trail of amendments to the Law on Referendum and the need to amend the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to better regulate it, and you've been to it and now that it's on the agenda now something doesn't fit, that's what I'm telling you, so that's your narrative to collect cheap political points and you're just the last thing in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120740	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120741	Art. The 238th demeaning of Parliamentarians, although I must apologize too, because I forget that this sudden change of agenda with the goal of pushing topics under the carpet and putting key themes into the scarce night hours is a standard mode of HDZ operand, and it is normal for you not to be surprised, it is just unusual for me to point out here as a bad democratic practice, so I apologize to you for forgetting, it is from your perspective common.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120742	Of course it was a replica on which, since you've spent your replicas, it's not correct that you use this institution to hurt the Rules of Procedure in the wrong direction, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120743	Dear counterpart Habian, here I want your comment, it seems that the fellow bridge measure the time at the moment when Nikola Grumoja looks at the weekly plan of the debate, the point on the agenda is already a few days, but here is when he looked at it at the bus, excuse me, at the gas station then they probably started measuring and time and then they were so quick to come to Zagreb for a session that has been going on for a few days. It was your comment on one actually silent coalition and one consensus between the SDP, We can!, Mosta, the Workers' Front, the Voice and others on this matter. I understand here SDP, here's my colleague, Bauk, I've been listening very carefully, they actually want this to be inserted through these changes to the constitution and the right to abortion so-called. In the constitution, but I don't understand the quasi conservatives from the Bridge why they're holding a ladder, why are they actually helping them with the whole situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120744	The Honorable representative Peovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120745	The Rules of Procedure in Art. 238, a colleague of Zekanovic's minimum concentration if we can win from you, means that you follow who's for constitutional change and who's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120746	Of course, and it was a replica, you get a warning. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120747	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague, Zekanovic, most of all, as far as the weather is concerned, they're a little confused, I hear that now colleague Rasdic is saying that in the night we're discussing this, so now it's 14 o'clock in the afternoon, so obviously I don't understand what you think nighttime is. Yes, they care so much about these constitutional, constitutional changes that they drove the car yesterday, although the session you said was already going on for a few days, but what I said was not constructive here today, and what I'm saying about this coalition is I'm not sure how long it's going to take, there's obviously some momentary interest to stick together, so we can! and the Bridge and the SDP and the Workers' Front, as clearly as they didn't like it now and are very protesting, but I think we witness it every day, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120748	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has again committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120749	I gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120750	You gave up, okay, thank you. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120751	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, don't worry about the SDP. Namely, if you look at this proposal to change the constitution and compare it with our proposals of 2018 and 2013 you will not find any significant differences, there are some details that need to be fixed, so that I look favourably at this amendment to the Constitution, and on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Constitution I see something less mild than the proposal, because in point 2 there is too much limited space for the Committee on Constitution to adopt in the second phase a draft amendment to the Constitution and therefore my club has also tabled an amendment to remove the bonds to the Constitution Committee, that my colleague Bošnjakovic has more space in negotiations with other clubs, so that this, in a good way, starts this debate on the change of the Constitution. As for the text proposed by 92 MPs, it has 4 basic pillars, it is one reduction in the number of signatures, which I believe everyone supports, another restriction on the subject on which a referendum can be called, which is not supported by all, but we support, the third is the introduction of a quorum for decision-making at the very referendum, which is also not supported by all, but we support and the fourth is a previous assessment of constitutionality which is also not supported by all, and we want it not to be a brake to carry out a referendum but rather to have one pedagogical and referring purpose in a way that when the Constitutional Court decides something that organisers can fix it and that the referendum can be called. In that sense, I believe that these constitutional changes will define a easier call for a referendum, and a little harder to make a decision at a referendum than before because I think it is not good for the social climate that decisions can be made with a minimum number of citizens who have come out, have come to the referendum. Therefore, I believe we have an interesting political autumn, whether in parliament or in the streets and squares. So much for what's in the proposal. In what is not in the proposal, which could be, we were saying, it is among other things the expansion of some human rights that are somewhere, which are normative, and only in practice, being questioned or at least difficult to achieve. There's also a matter of summer break, it should be constitutional matter or enough to be business matter. There is a question of a coin that was created as, colleagues would say, the subject of political trade, I would say the subject of the various political interests of those who brought the Constitution, which is a regional self-government framework. Legend has it that when HSLS and IDS were in opposition, that HSLS didn't want to write only regional because it sounded too much to them, in 2000, too little to throw at secessionism, and the IDS didn't want to agree not to write regionally, and then the wise Racan found this coin which was also an eclectic example, to say fellows from the Most, political trade, which is just the introduction of a referendum in the Constitution because it was in the Constitution at the request of 5 HSP MPs in 2000, if anyone forgot. This was the condition of the HSP to support constitutional changes in 2000, so it would also be called this, political trade, and some would say it was a democratic political agreement between parties with different programming goals, but managed to agree on a common minimum. We will also remember the constitutional changes in 2010 when there were enough majority of pro-European parties and MPs who wanted to facilitate Croatia's accession to the EU because these were all parties that went to the elections, they had the programme, and we will also remember a historic compromise where, for example, we regulated the number of representatives from the diaspora to be fixed on 3rd, not to turn it into a 22nd Croatian county with a bunch of polling stations and with a real campaign as it was in Croatia itself. Of course, if there's a proposal for a reduction, we won't object to it either, but that's something we can live with... all these years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, depending on the fate of our amendment or the meaning of our amendment, which is that at this stage of constitutional changes, we do not commit our hands to colleagues Bošnjakovic, the Constitution Committee, that we can try various mechanisms, of the existing two-thirds majority, we look kindly to the process of amending the Constitution and the direction in which these changes are going, but we have certain remarks that we will make in the next phases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120752	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120753	Dear colleague Bauk. Here's a nice statement you've made. 4 pillars and as far as I understand it, you agree with all 4 pillars, you don't actually have any major objections, and no matter what you're not signatories, you're actually going to ultimately support these constitutional changes, correct me if I get it wrong. Question for you, why did HDZ go into these constitutional changes in the first place, why did they initiate constitutional changes? I can guess, and I'm going to offer one answer, maybe and I'm wondering if, by any chance, the right to an abortion, which you also want to put as a constitutional category, is limited by a possible referendum, means and the referendum is passed in the Constitution, if you pass these amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law? Would that question be limited?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120754	Dear Representative Bauk [[I don't know if you understand me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120755	I didn't understand you very well, but I do believe that the possible referendum issue of amending or supplementing the Constitution as defined in the proposal of 40 MPs, the second proposal for a change of the Constitution, would pass through the sieve and the resolution of these constitutional provisions, and the constitutional provisions of the following when they were adopted. But in my thinking and seeing as Croatia's termination, a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution to the proposal of 40 MPs would take place before these changes take effect today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120756	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120757	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Two things I'd like you to clarify. First, the ruling rejected our request to make it clear to the Constitution that a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth, and the state provides assumptions for the exercise of this right, with an argument, that she already has it in the Constitution. So where's that in the Constitution? That's the first thing. The second thing, by ruling majority support for these changes now in the Constitution they want on the referendum, and yet I say, they don't want what we propose to change in the Constitution. You've had enough of these meetings, how did they manage to imagine it? So yours won't, but you accept ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120758	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120759	As far as the second question is concerned, I do not even convince from our party meetings, let alone from multilateral meetings, so in this sense I can say that the process of amending the Constitution is always a complicated process that requires the agreement of those who do not otherwise agree, not to agree, but rather to be political opponents and it is very difficult for those who are in opposition and accept the proposal of the ruling ones to explain why they did it, it should be a pretty big reason to also need certain types of skill. As for the fate of our proposal to supplement the Constitution, I will correct you, not all of you having ruled out our proposal, some have signed it. Yeah. So for now HDZ has rejected it, but if the process of change is opened, until the process is completed, there is hope, even if it is small, that it enters the Constitution in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120760	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120761	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bauk, I would like to return to what you stated in your individual speech, and this is about the amendment that you, and your club, have made to this conclusion. What, if I understand correctly, is the meaning of your amendment to give the Chairman for the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure a little greater powers which I think is good, that it is good to give him greater authority, or I think that in these discussions the interest of all of us should be to get a good and quality solution. And when it comes to the referendum of the point of view I am that at some point we need to open up both the debate and the referendum law because it is the whole package or as if now in terms of the tourist season we call all inclusive because we should discuss everything, and it would not be good for the promoter to actually set the whole thing in a way to take or leave. 'Cause if you take it or leave it then it sure as hell won't. and lead to some kind of conversation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120762	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120763	I listened carefully to my colleague Bosnjakovic on behalf of the promoter, and he pointed out several times that he would talk. And by our amendment, we are actually helping him and making his job easier to talk about because if in the beginning as it is now formulated these talks you bring down to very narrow frameworks then the room for conversation and for a deal is much smaller than if space and agreement were wider. I think if I didn't do that, I could write it on a t-shirt like that, there's a bigger space to talk about, there's a bigger space to deal with, here's what I'll do next time, yeah. Therefore, that is, we have submitted an amendment based on what we have heard from the promoters and that the promoters are not only ruling but also part of the opposition exactly what I would like to hear about our amendment as the promoter. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120764	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120765	You support this change in the Constitution, how it doesn't surprise me. All you have done so far has been for personal and against Croatian interests and against the interests of Croatian citizens, but also against European values. You and your party have worked on a pre-profit law that is a law for rich people and is contrary to all the principles of social justice. You worked on the criminal privatisation of Croatia's insurance and eventually participated in corruption in the case of Uljanik. You want Croatia to be an experimental rabbit in which Furio Radin and Pupovac will be posthumously represented. That's what you want. You want Croatia to be an unfair and unjust state, and not an orderly state through the blockade of the judiciary and other institutions, you brought Croatia to a beggar stick. So you opposed the procession of the Libyan liquidators, protected the refugees Perkovic and Mustac and argued Croatia with Europe. You are now allowing JNA to ban Croatians from voting for a valued lawyer, Miroslav Šeparovic. Yes, your goal is to degrade Croatia. That's your goal, say it openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120766	Honorable, esteemed representative, esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120767	I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120768	You're not, okay. This esteemed representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120769	Dear colleague here we have now learned that you will ally support these changes and be that overreach obviously constitutional, but I am now interpreting it and you yourself have said that it is some distance of time dealing with colleagues, honorary colleagues from HSP Djapic, Jukic, this Rozic and this Tadic and the late Kovacevic who actually forced you to the then government of the detudmanised and this parliamentary call to introduce it, and now I see that you are opposing the people to keep that initiative. How is it, how is it motivated that simply such a time-out and that you need now finally to join those who oppose...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120770	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120771	... I can get 7 seconds, we actually brought this HSP amendment to life in 2010 by abolishing this censorship that was 50% before. [[Specially enabled.]] So, this initiative since HSP entered it has never been implemented because I think no referendum has called it a success. Only by our 2010 amendments were this repaired in a way, but unfortunately in a way that left that and initiatives which are actually much more illegal than many parliamentary parliaments calling for parliaments to change the Constitution. I don't think that's good. So there should be a certain limit that still those who change the Constitution should skip. Whether it's 40%, 30%, 20%, or some other number, that's going to show up in the next two discussions. And as for our attitude, I just said that I look favorably at the proposal. which is attached to this decision, not to this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120772	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120773	Dear colleague Bauk, here you have just said in your presentation that you support and introduce a quorum to make certain decisions, but is it not enough first to collect several hundred thousand signatures according to the new proposal for a referendum where you will have to know exactly which location, log in, etc., it is necessary to know exactly who is responsible for these signatures, etc., a number of other things, depending on the weather conditions and then introduce that quorum when deciding on the referendum itself. Isn't that an additional killing of the referendum institute itself and that there are too many restrictions or that in every way possible it tries to throw out the people in a direct decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120774	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120775	I don't see it that way. So, if we had three referendums each year now, something changes to reduce that, you'd understand. But in 10 years, we've had 1 letter in a single referendum, so any change can't be worse than it is today. The Em Constitutional Court can, without any reason, say so resolutely that the issue is not constitutional, if the issue is constitutional, then it can say those who have collected have crossed over those who have signed in the end, and in the end there is no referendum again. I think this is more correct. So, firstly, the constitutionality of the issue is determined, a smaller number of signatures are collected, a referendum campaign is conducted, and a number of citizens need to support the proposal in order to be legitimate, smaller. That's, that's what, so that's what I think should be in an orderly state. And if you see the difference between what we suggested in 2013 and this to that extent that we need to jump to the back legs, warn me, you can warn me on the phone, you can make this public I'll jump first and the word can't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120776	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120777	So I'll read from Wikipedia what's on your behalf, which means that you said that the EU referendum, by comparing the number of citizens who went to a referendum in the Republic of Croatia with the number of adult residents according to the last census of the population in the referendum, came out 58 full-aged, 58% of the adult population of the Republic of Croatia. Are you still standing by that statement? Namely, now that we're looking at how many people went to the EU referendum, that's about 1/3 of the voters actually enrolled, not what you said, and what's still standing on Wikipedia is that it's 58% of the voters enrolled. But right now I think it's not that important that we go back in time, but the quorum problem is really big because 750,000 voters are a change of marriage, the definition of marriage is going to vote, and now a million 290,000 would be required. It's really a lot more voters who have to vote for some initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120778	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120779	When I said before in one of the previous replicas that we had one referendum I missed the word that we had one referendum too. So, I believe that this referendum should not have passed or that an insufficient number of voters legitimately voted to change that constitutional provision, but it was in line with the Constitution and I, as a legalist, accept it. So this assembly was voted by millions and 750 thousand people, 2/3 of the million 750 is about a million 130 and something, and that should be the pandan of the two-thirds majority of the assembly needed to change the Constitution. Let's say there's more lost votes somewhere 10%, so let's make it a million. It's somewhere less than a third, but not much less than a third of the total number, the total number of voters. As for the EU referendum, we then had 4.5 million voters enrolled, and 3.5 million adult residents signed in 2011. The number of votes divided by 3.5 million gave the 58% so myself, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120780	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120781	Dearly esteemed fellow Bauk, I am pleased to convey to you the praises of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who has just said in Okucani, he says that there are reasonable options in the assembly with which he can agree nicely, etc. Here we have seen the Social Democrats that they are reasonable, we know long ago that Zekanovic is reasonable, IDS has become reasonable, Milan Vrkljan is reasonable, and now we know that you are reasonable too. More specifically, you'll vote for this proposal on Friday. I acknowledge to you the cunning because you let your direct political competitors Social Democrats stand out so that after they have founded the party and try to offer an alternative to what you do, they have been finely signed, today they are being pulled around the media as some new Plenkovic chips, and then see wonders you will do the same as they vote for but pass much closer. So, you're reasonable, you've got Plenkovic's praises, you've got the Social Democrats down, and you've pulled out of the signature, and you're gonna be here on Friday. vote for what suits you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120782	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120783	It's hard to remain immune to these commendations of colleagues. I am if you listened carefully to me, and it is our vote Friday that connected to the fate of our amendment. And our amendment is going to include the MOST proposal in the amendments to the Constitution on Article 17. So we without the Most, really, it would be really, really nothing. So, as far as this pandemic is concerned, let's say that if it were part of constitutional changes, as the Constitutional Court said, it wouldn't change much, but it would respect the will of the citizens. As for other political parties, this is a free country, free association, and everyone has the right to organize properly, so I will repeat. We have made an amendment to the motion for a decision, we have no problem with the text that is attached, but we want to get into the process of constitutional change with a slightly wider possibility of agreement than just this. And this would be the first reasonable step by the proposing to accept this proposal and thus enable us to participate more actively in these changes. If that's not the way it is. We'll see what happens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120784	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, here are two short questions, and I believe two quick answers. For what reason do you not have all the topics for the referendum? And secondly, here's something about the question of a respected colleague of the Rasputic is what kind of political utopia is, or what does that mean, a sufficient degree of consent of parliamentary clubs and MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120786	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120787	The answer to the second question means 101 votes, 2/3, that's a sufficient degree of consent. As far as the referendum theme goes, let's say the first thing that comes to mind is a referendum, for example. decide whether a specific group of citizens will be deprived of citizenship. So it is quite certain that the question that would be said should Croatian citizens only be members of the Croatian people would not be subject to the referendum because it would be explicitly anti-minor or other issues that might be present. If we forbid older women and younger men to marry, is that for a referendum, no, because it limits certain rights. Or should we forbid that we have more than two or less than four children, it's not the same for a referendum. So because, that's, that's the question, that's, that's the question that I don't think you should be in a referendum and that others shouldn't decide on individual rights of individuals. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120788	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120789	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk, please explain to me the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Since the applicants of these 92 signatories of this decision, the motion for a decision says that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of and within the framework of the motion for a decision, and the proposal for a decision only refers to the referendum issue, will discuss the draft amendments to the Constitution, whether all the signatories of all of them 92 support the amendment of the Constitution when it refers solely to the question and the referendum, I remind only the amendment of 3 articles of the Constitution in relation to 152 of the Constitution, more precisely, although the subject of the amendment of the Constitution is not a human right of women to the choice and decision to give birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120790	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120791	I'm sure 92 signatories have 92 different opinions about what the Constitution should include, but that what they signed is some kind of minimum common denominator. From the explanation of certain opposition MPs, they explained their signature that they only signed to go into constitutional changes and I can accept it, however, to go only into constitutional changes based on and in the context of the 4 articles, they will show it by voting on our amendment, if the promoters do not accept it in such or in changed form, and then there will be no room for us to say this, but we are not what we were thinking when we did this. So here's how my colleague Rasudiæ said we're giving these lost sheep a chance to return to the herd because it's more worth one than how it's already going.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120792	Now they will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120793	My colleagues and colleagues, I would like the situation to be this way in the assembly as my colleague Bauk said earlier if he is convinced that 92 signatories of this proposal have 92 different opinions, you can think of these 76 or 77 which is pluralism, everyone else thinks differently, but by some miracle they have agreed. I will repeat for the hundredth time, in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to regulate and enable the referendum, with us to perform acrobatics in order to make it impossible and we see constant mistrust in the will of the citizens. The age-old citizens who have not been deprived of their business capacity are therefore equivalent in civil terms to all of us and with ministers and with the president are defined in the constitution as holders of sovereignty, from which comes sovereignty and belongs to them, to citizens or to the people. So, these stories about how to disable a referendum that would vote here to take away citizenship from the insecure or not ethnic Croats, so that's crazy. How do you think you can achieve democratic society and democratic power if you think that most people would think so, so what kind of opinion you have about citizens, is that maybe that reason of that fixation on civic education, which is essentially civil pre-age, the people are wrong, but there's a party as an avant-gard of the working people that, because the party knows better what the interests of the people are and what's good than the people, the people or the citizens as you wish. So, we know that this is being discussed, we know that SDP, Bauk, in particular, that he's been skiing with HDZ in those conversations, the naive Social Democrats have fallen into the building, these have not signed, you've signed, by some miracle your president hasn't signed, but the rest of you have, so today he's calling you Plenkovic's chips, and he's handing out praise for how reasonable you are, great for the start of the new parties, but your choice. We criticized the fact that ad hoc overnight is changing the agenda and that this point is being swept up which should have been beautifully announced in time, it's just about that, not that it's being smuggled into the agenda. The three important points of this proposal are the first to reduce the number of signatures needed to 250 thousand not enough, if we look at some European practice, it should be 2%, 72 thousand, if you want to cut down in line with some European average and European examples, and not petting your eyes like here is no more 360 or 400 thousand than it was on Bauk, but it's 250 thousand because of course the rabbit lies in another bush. This is point 2 of the quorum issue, 1/3 of the voters need to vote for the change of the constitution, `for the law and this is what the people who rule in 17% of the voters' votes received in Croatia, clear and clouded in 17%, would impose 33.3% on changing the constitution of all. The Venice Commission, not only the Venice Commission, all that comes from the EU is a sacred letter when it fits, and now suddenly it is no good to recommend by the Venice Commission not to limit the quorums but offered honor, how many people come out and decide. And at the end of the most important point, you could have reduced this to not 250 grand but 5 grand, because there's a constitutional court that you've chosen in the political trade with the SDP where you've parked your own political personnel, people put in a series of affairs of false representations in banks, murky godfather ties, that I'm not going to go now into the details that the remote control of the ruling policy is going to make the decision that needs to be made, and in the beginning, it's going to block a referendum initiative that isn't according to the will of the ruling, here's the proposal. Left to yesterday's opposition, and today we see a part of the same click trying to smooth the eyes of its electoral body by smuggling something into the constitution in such a way, of course it won't happen because HDZ will now show that they are great democrats, great Croats and Catholics and defenders of the rights of unborn children because they will not allow your departure, so you will again turn out to be useful fools, you little less, Social Democrats much more. Here's the epilogue of this whole story. We are happy that we did not go to these negotiations as we will be happy and sleep peacefully Friday night because we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120794	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has broken the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120795	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I refer to the article. 238, when we speak and, as the esteemed representative has spoken, we can use some other words, but the word “skiing” and tie to the name and name of one parliamentary representative, I think it is not appropriate, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120796	Thank you, I agree with you, it's not appropriate, and unfortunately here we listen to anything inappropriate. I have to give you a warning, but I suggest we all watch our mouths. ... What do you have to say to me slowly, what's wrong with you? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, you do, but you can't communicate with me like that and talk to me slowly. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, then you can do it, you can do it, and no one is defending you, but in an appropriate way, yes. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, I don't. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm sorry, I'm not responsible here, like I'm not responsible for cleaning the floor, for example, so please don't. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. You can't talk to me. Please state your violation of the Rules of Procedure, if that is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Reiner defends Bauk, look at this, look at these big coalitions.]] What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure? [[What a great coalition, an anti-national one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120797	He's been injured. 238, insulting and demeaning me as a parliamentary representative. I have never said a vulgar or offensive word in these two years in this House. Explain to me what it means to ski, is it something vulgar and what's the problem with that expression? Here, please explain to me in Croatian and you and MP Mrak-Taritash what it means to ski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120798	I'm representatives of the Dark-Taritash gave a warning, just as I'm going to give you because this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Pavic, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120799	Dear Representative, the fact is that some meetings were held in the HDZ cabinet, the fact is that some of them took the signature lists, then they didn't hand them over, why they didn't hand them over, I don't know, we were signed, no one sat us down, we knowingly signed it, and I repeat again, if the price to get the provisions in the Constitution and be the law on the referendum so that the referendum can be implemented afterwards and that our citizens have the right to vote in the referendum, if it's the price to withdraw me in the papers, I will sign again, if it takes 5 times, it's not a problem. But that my friends, my acquaintances, my fellow citizens can go to a referendum and speak their mind. The goal was this dialogue, we finally opened it, we can't open it ourselves, and it can't vote itself. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120800	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120801	Dear colleague Pavić, I agree with you. If the price of our people being able to go to a referendum and express their opinion is not only that they're pushing us negatively through the media, but also in this assembly to tell me to paralyze people's deaths, I'm willing to agree to it, but I've been trying to explain to you why this proposal is not allowing it, but disabling it, through two points. It is this quorum that is pushed past the recommendation of the Venice Commission which is otherwise so piously followed, and the second is that the Constitutional Court, as it is, will determine which question can pass, which cannot pass. These are arguments that I offer for the thesis that this will not enable and facilitate and edit the referendum but will disable it in everything that goes with the hair of the ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120802	Honorable representative Pavic has raised injuries to the Businessmen. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120803	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238 for pointing out the wrong allegations. Namely, if you have listened to the opening statement, the result of all these negotiations and talks is also the compromise that the promoter has made. So we're going to talk about it, and our goal is to get to what you suggested and Mr. Grmoy's when you were crying because you couldn't hold a referendum, people. I want that referendum to be held once. Let's do it to make a deal with them because without the rulings we can't bring, it can't be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120804	Thank you. Well, guidance is not supposed to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120805	Dear colleague Rasputic, here we are to help our colleague Pavic, who is a nice man to me and I don't think he's any political fraud. Why does Arsen Bauk and the team announce that they will go to a referendum on abortions in the Constitution under the old rules and not on the new ones they are negotiating with HDZ? The answer is very simple, because what they are now agreeing with HDZ will make it difficult to carry out the referendum. So it is quite clear what kind of game it is here, and I call on my fellow Social Democrats to give up and to withdraw from this process, not to give their hands for such changes on Friday, because surely this team, therefore Arsen Bauk and Branko Bačić, who cooperate more than anyone in this House, will rule you out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120806	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120807	I can only repeat that metaphor that I animalically said today, which is not to negotiate with a fox about poultry protection modes, shortly after she committed the slaughter in a henhouse. That's naive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120808	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120809	Dear colleague. When we read this argument on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, then a significant space is given down the reason why it enters, that the reason between, that it wants to ensure the stability of a democratic society, reduce tension and, watch out now, reduce financial expenditure to the organisers of the initiative. On the contrary, I think, and I would like to hear your opinion, when we do away with every possibility for Croatian people to spontaneously express their dissatisfaction or give, they want to make a proposal to edit their social political life, what is their alternative? Then where's he going? How? So are we going to be part of the social unrest? The tensions, and as we can see, that wasn't their goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120810	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120811	I can only agree with you and once again warn that if we prevent people from institutionally showing their political will between the election cycles that are every 4 years, we create like that papal pot, we create one, one state of serious rise in social pressure, and that's not good. If there's no possibility of a referendum demonstration of will, in harsh situations, we've recently had them, it's just a street. And we don't want to deal with it because it doesn't run well for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120812	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120813	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's a colleague of the Rasdic. Here's when we already have a series of very fun and likable metaphors, skills and aphorisms, I'm very short in politics, but as long as I am, and before that, I've always followed and I can even personally cite one of these coalitions as I look at today through this story in the assembly, so we can see this big block coalition of HDZ and SDP, and then you might see that I might as well add one personal metaphor to Mr. Plenkovic as a mufasa that raises Arsena Bauk like that, so show it to the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120814	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120815	Well, here's half an hour ago, very nice and pleasant praises came from Mr. Plenkovic to all those he calls reasonable, and if that's the reason he calls reason, I'll be very happy to sign that I'm crazy, that I'm a fool, that I'm being unreasonable and what's already in that semantic field that's the opposite of what Plenkovic is praising at this point in view of their relationship with the referendumal expression of the will of citizens in the near past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120816	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120817	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Rasudiæ, you have again been able to unmanage yourself twice, for the first time you said that here overnight ad hoc on the agenda included this point, and before you said quote you by union we refused to discuss the change of constitution. So if you refused to talk to those you had to talk to if we wanted to change the constitution and constitutional law, of course you weren't informed, but again, you were denied if you were informed last week and you said yourself to organize the Round Table on this subject. On the third hand you're saying you've been crying, crying here for months how hard it's been for you to collect over 400 thousand signatures, now that that number has dropped to 250 thousand now doesn't fit again, so your colleague Rasudic is denying himself and it's only showing that your only interest is to buy you cheap political points, and I'm going to keep pointing out, cheap political points, you've shown it three times today in these five minutes alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120818	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120819	Better to collect cheap political problems than expensive state incentives, expensive watches like your previous Idol Sanader, carry in expensive bags expensive money like Branko Bačić returned or collected even this iron, the artisan has collected, so here I'd rather collect cheap political points than this from armature to clocks, so much about it. Secondly, there's no contradiction, so I'm saying why you're not normally putting this on the agenda a few weeks before we know it's Wednesday at 9:00 and 30 minutes than you've been doing the day before, that's what this is about. And as for the reduction of 400 thousand to 250, you could have reduced to 500, but you've set two fuses, one is this absurdly high quorum against the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and the other is this filter and the cover of the constitutional court that will tear down the questions on the remote control of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120820	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120821	Thank you. One of the greatest motives for us to call on the parliamentary majority to approach the amendments to the constitution on the referendum initiative is the fate of an unfair and undeserved fate of the motion that you have initiated to change the constitution when the constitutional court, without any logical and legitimate reasoning, has rejected one completely normal and constitutional proposal, and therefore the decision to move towards a change of constitution is something that we are asking for in the 10th year, about this way we proposed in 2013, so it is not "snap" means to strip and clint and withdraw under this... Don't defend me, so in that sense, in that sense I expect from you the praise of our ten years endurance, the right to choose is also a 30-year-old, therefore all the praises you have given us we receive on our weak shoulders and myself personally, thank you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120822	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120823	As much as I have tried to praise you in my humble eloquence and limited vocabulary, I cannot commend you today as Prime Minister Plenkovic has commended you, so I will not try. ... So he thinks of all these reasonable ones, and you're involved in reasonable because you said you'd support it on Friday. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And as for going back to this metaphorical, so you went online after the fox committed the slaughter in the henhouse, you went to talk to the fox to burn yourself with it so that these poor popcorn could save this future, so what would it do to you that you're the character in that bass, which would make you look so naive that you think the fox would agree or you might be in some kind of handcuff business in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120824	The Honorable Representative Bauk has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way is he injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120825	It's a shame to miss a good chance for, you've brought that fox twice to power, the first time in 2015 when only the defendants were convicted the second time in 2016 when they were wrongly convicted. Therefore, we support our proposal, whether there is anything logical but to support our proposal, some of the Bridge's proposals are supported and now our proposal will be your proposal to change the constitution to Article. 17th to strip the thing all the way, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120826	Thank you. This one, of course, you know I have to give this a warning. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120827	As an opposition, we supported everything you said more or less after the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Mosto's referendum initiative. Now the question I'm asking in front of you, I can understand you that today you don't want to talk about changes to the constitution in any way, but whether it might be better to open certain processes and talks, mainly because in some situations we have HDZ, you would dare say, on the wire through decisions of that same constitutional court, I'm talking about the right of women to choose or to throw up, as well as the election law and the problems we have with election units, whether it should not be our goal together, so let's see if we can achieve it together. And since it would be very easy to finish if someone supported HDZ or not, I'll take it from my colleagues, don't answer me, I win HDZ for now, and some of your colleagues brought it to power, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120828	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120829	Now, it would be said that my colleagues from the club in 2015 whether they brought HDZ to power or brought it to Croatian citizens who brought HDZ and SDP to the Egal, some negotiations were held, and some had conducted partial negotiations with Drago Prgomet if I was not deceived by memory beyond these despite the fact that poor Petrov had forced them to the public notary in a desperate gesture that those who came from the Most list signed that they would not negotiate independently. That famous one was a public notary. So it can be said that you pushed them yourself then with this credible negotiation into HDZ's arms, and the second time HDZ got older with a new man because the thoughts were probably different, it turned out to be the same if not even worse, more insidious. That's one thing. The second thing is, why didn't you sign this SDP proposal? If you were about to open the dialogue that here's good... Why didn't you sign it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, fairer were the Social Democrats who put on their signatures, so they're picking up a language of soup in the media today than you did, and it's like you're about to open this famous process, and you see who you're opening it with. I'm using a fox to repeat the modes of the protection of popcorn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120830	Okay, I see there's gonna be more damage to the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable Representative of the Bauk, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120831	You've managed to get me two warnings. So when we sign, it's no good that we sign, when we don't sign, it's no good why we didn't sign, when we say we're going to give the amendment, why did you give the amendment, when we say we won't give the amendment, you accept everything they're proposing. Look, we can't be a MOST and we can't copy pasta suggestions from the Most. So when we agree with the Most about something, we agree, then we're good, and when we disagree, then we're with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120832	Thank you. Here's the thing you said yourself. It's a second warning. Dear Representative Jaksic also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120833	She's gone. I'll get a warning. So, interesting word game 2015 or '16. Most was with HDZ because they were given the right by Croatian citizens who voted for HDZ, but this time the citizens voted for HDZ. And as for the listing of 2015, 2016, who was talking to, negotiated, whose presidents, I am a member of the SDP, but I must tell you that with most of these people you are, and today you have been much more in touch than I do. So don't answer to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120834	Here's what you said yourself. You have to get a warning, so we're moving on to the next debate, and it's going to be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120835	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the usual methodology of colleagues from the MOST, extort what they have and leave, but what's there. So I've been trying to be reasonable all my political life, and I've been trying to get all these subjects to be reasonable, and I think it's my virtue, not my fault, but it's here, and now we're going a little bit on the subject that's the subject. The topic is whether, therefore, to be absolutely clear, whether the conditions have been met or whether we want to open a debate on the amendment of the Constitution regarding the referendum, point. That's the topic we're talking about today, and we need to see it. I ask you, are you satisfied with the solution that is in the Constitution today? Are you satisfied with the legislative solution proposed in the second reading of the referendum law? Are you satisfied with the current situation where we have had in the last 10 years just one referendum? If you're satisfied, we'll paint all day long. Let's go, we got what we got, we don't have referendums we don't want and we finish the story. If we're not satisfied, let's ask ourselves whether we want to start a conversation, yes, that the Constitution is a different solution and that, consequently, we have some other solutions in the referendum law. That's the question. Of course we're opening up both content and metrically, which bothers us here. So how many times in this assembly have we talked about the number of voters that are our problem? Is it not fairer to define that the number of voters that should be signed so that, at all, a referendum initiative could start to define by an absolute number of 250,000. People don't discuss the percentage of what it is anymore. In one part, I'm absolutely much more into where when we sign, when we define the quorum of going out to talk about the absolute number, not to talk about the percentage, because we're always going to get into some problem that we won't be able to get out of. So that's the problem to talk about, and it seems to me that there should be an absolute number, not a percentage again. Whether or not we want and there's another topic that I have to open up is the Constitutional Court, do we want the role of the Constitutional Court not to be discretionary, that they are, in fact, arbitrarily deciding on some things, that the Constitutional Court, through its particular activism, be a substitute for the Constitution and the laws, regardless of when it plays a positive role. If that's what we want then I think that we should define which topics that can't be the subject of the referendum at all, and also that we should define and facilitate the situation when, when the questions of not having what we all had the bitter taste, imagine when 400,000 signatures you collect and then the Constitutional, which I appreciate that someone was able to collect according to Sodom and Gomorrah, bad weather, and then the Constitutional Court tells you that your question, that you've done it all, so you've done well, but it doesn't matter. A key question that we all need to ask ourselves. Do we actually want referendums in Croatia? Do we want the referendums to be just on certain issues? What do we want with referendums? Do we want these referendums when the citizens come out, so I'm not just talking about the initiative, but I'm talking about the real referendum being the will of the majority. No, a small number of times in this assembly we've all talked about how many votes anyone has received in the elections, how many, how many citizens have not come out to make it clear to the end, collect, so collect 400,000 signatures and a referendum can be called. You call a referendum on a very important issue, you get out 10,000 people in Croatia and 10,000 of them, half of them, so 5,000 of them, and let's say 3 make some important decisions. Imagine 5,003 people making a decision that we're coming out of the EU, now let me just say the thing right to the end. So if we had a problem with the referendum, if we wanted to define it, if we wanted the debate to open up, so no matter what we could do with what the metrics were. Unsatisfactory and say we're not going any further [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Then it's... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120836	We have two replicas of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120837	Dear MPs, the review of the issues that matter to us is very important and I'm glad you did it in such short time. As the first basis, we need to know clearly and loudly whether we want to have the possibility of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia. If we want such legal provisions, then, are not the ones that allow us to carry out such a referendum, so we need to change something. And I am pleased that if today's debate succeeds, we will come to the moment when we will finally be able to discuss this referendum and the conditions of the referendum all of us can speak openly, and I hope that in a few months or maybe a year after all the possible discussions of this law and these changes will be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120838	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120839	Thank you very much. I'd like to live, and I'd like to have some small action affecting us being a little more decent and a little more orderly state. And if by my political action, that's what I said, I'm trying to be reasonable in my politics, and that's how I'm gonna be in politics. If with that you can make one small, small shift or at least be one small, small pebble I would say that each of us should be then satisfied with its action. I don't experience that any of us acting in politics that it's his job to use jumpers, to use insults, that if you succeed as much as you can insinuate someone else that it's more successful for you, let's say it's you who voted and you voted for the penalty, then it's important that you have a video or how it's already called that after two days that the assembly and that we all sit here you come to the Assembly meeting It's a double standard to me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120840	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120841	Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, I ask you experiencedly. Do you think that since we are obviously opening some process of dialogue and debate about what we want to change and what we want to do with our Constitution that we are not just focusing on a referendum, the constitution does not change every year, but that all the topics that the Constitutional Court itself likes to call upon have been trying to bring into debate and impose on the government to implement them, that we are also covering these topics in this debate. You know what topics I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120842	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120843	Thank you, colleague Jaksic. I don't think we should open the subject of amending the Constitution unless we know clearly what's in it. If we have two initiatives at this point, and we have then the elemental democratic courtesy or parliamentary would be to discuss one and the other subject, so at the same session the same day, that they would be, they wouldn't even have to be united debates or to discuss both issues. Let's not valorize one topic, put the other one under the carpet. And that, among other things, is what I said in my replicator and I asked him why it's not so much more that we're talking about topics that are extremely important to our society. And I don't have any dilemmas about doing it with each other. I don't think we should take part in the blackmail phase, but I do, and so the weaker ones get worse. That we need to open up topics for discussion we need And how it's going to be, we'll see. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120844	Thank you, thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120845	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon, everyone. So, today is an open debate on the topic that brings us all together most recently during the Covid pandemic period when we have often called on the Constitutional Court, so there have been referendum initiatives, so the Constitutional Court has ruled on something, both in fashion and in this spirit, we have come to this debate today, this initiative and all of what we are doing together today through our sentences and our views. What we have said through several SDP discussions and through several replicas is that it is definitely if we are talking about the Constitution itself that it is not a document that we are going to change every 3 months and that it is also definitely that we all need to give ourselves a lot of effort and a lot of will to open a much wider and much deeper discussion and to see what points these are and in what way at these same points we can come to dialogue and afterwards come to a consensus because it is not just a matter of referendum that has proved to be something that we need to change and do differently there are still a few issues that have been discussed, which have been protested, which have been called the Constitutional Court. So I'm sorry that today we don't have a joint discussion or that today we're not talking about both of the two constitutional amendments because it would show one spirit of openness to talk, regardless of what might end up not agreeing about anything. It is something that would also contribute to trust within the parliamentary majority and opposition, but I also believe that it would contribute to citizens seeing in a slightly different way everything that we are discussing today and everything that is rounding up the public over the past period. It is obvious that when we talk about the referendum initiatives themselves that we need certain changes and that we simply need to see how we no longer have a discussion that someone was collecting something, and then that after that, it is suspected that the policy cannot lead to a referendum. There is our only normal defense and protection that we have clear defined conditions that we will agree on here and then there will be no more discussion about who the Constitutional Court loves or does not love. I also believe that today, but also before, we see how important it is that the Constitutional Court has a public and transparent approach to its work, the conditions for it exist, the regulations exist, and there are a lot of debates and a lot of disputes over the decisions of the Constitutional Court have come most of the way because it has turned out, I am now Caricing, of course it wasn't, but it turned out that decisions were made behind the fiercely closed doors and the maltene under cover of the night so that someone wouldn't hear or see what they're talking about or what they're discussing. It's also not a good way to go. What is certain is that SDP would like us to finally respect and what the Constitutional Court stated when we talk about women's rights to choice and finally define how and how in Croatia we will protect these women's rights. Just to draw attention to the ruling majority, it's not something that the SDP has now pulled out of its finger, it's ultimately something that it released as a recommendation in 2017, and the Constitutional Court to which the ruling majority likes to call when it suits them. They do this very often and often, and it exists in the documents of the Constitutional Court that we discussed. We think it's also one necessary civilization step to show that we're ready to protect women's rights. It would not be good if we did not respect neither the initiative nor the recommendations of the Constitutional Court because our colleague Bacic in the fall of concentration in a debate told us, not now on this subject, we have problems among ourselves and we do not want to talk about it. That's not an answer and that's not the answer. We also have recommendations from the Constitutional Court concerning the Election Law, our election units, riots in the voters' lists, we have seen and now in the census, and then by the number of health insurance companies, by the number of voters, how many holes there are, and how much of this is wrong, and it would also be very useful for citizens to trust in the electoral process to respect what the Constitutional Court stated and to discuss with the opposition and those who are willing to sit down together and to see what we can do better and better in preparation for constitutional changes. Without talking, without dialogue, without being willing, perhaps to take a step back sometime, I'm afraid we won't realize what we should all want together for the sake of this country and our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120846	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120847	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. So as Croatian sovereigns, we have already expressed our position on several occasions. What I appreciate is that we should repeat, or touch what we are not so far, is one fact that in the first proposals actually put on one repressive character, one hostile style towards initiatives, people's initiatives that have a legitimate need to express their views, use constitutional rights to directly decide the issues they are interested in. And so I can't be taken away from that impression, and I see many colleagues in the assembly, and particularly out-of-parliamentary that this whole proposal, a set of laws that you have proposed, directs somehow with a terrible doubt about the reasonableness of the Croatian people in the referendum initiatives, into the motivation of this, such procedures, and that you are the guardians of democracy, at all costs, to do everything, any possibility that, by chance, you said there, would question the stability of a democratic society in Croatia, the tension, so as not to bring yourself into Croatia, and to protect the financial situation of the organisational board that we don't spend a lot of money, I have participated in these referendum initiatives several times, so I know what I'm talking about. Well, please don't worry like that. We all have enough reason to know and have a natural one, one leader, one compass, we know very well, all of us, the Croatian public, which is in accordance with the general principles of the Constitution. Which is consistent with the values of our constitutional order. However, no, you doubt that, and in the law on the proposed referendum law, you have worked so hard to really limit every grass of democracy, every attempt to raise the head of the Croatian people to say something new about some of their rights or wishes or attitudes that you have limited there first, means a referendum initiative, you have introduced a record of the referendum initiatives of the DIP in... But that DIP is already in control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After putting in a hundred terms, that referendum initiative about volunteers, about collecting signatures, about the collection of signatures, about a series of details, personal data, etc., you put authority, watch out for now, HS, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, to start by saying his position and putting it in the People's Journal, please, 8 days before this initiative goes by, if you accidentally profiled the Constitutional Court or someone else disables it. You put in, however, and the possibility of a board of protourendum initiatives, on the contrary, that's against the Venice team, the good rules of Venice, is, it's the opposite. He must not be put against this initiative. The Protureendum Initiative has the opportunity to express its position, however, but not in this institutionalised way it can do so before, during time, but not at the same level as the Committee. Then it's not the end. You have prescribed a form, whether this is all in the context of constitutional changes, a form that the DIP puts to collect signatures. That form, 24 hours before he puts it, will have to be organised in 24 hours, 300, 400 thousand, as it will be printed, printed, how it will be divided, and you only gave 30 to 45 days to hold the referendum, and so on. And worse, imagine, when, now that we've been through all this and the DIP has given permission to go into signings, then you've put on, watch out for one provision, that we can't go ahead, no less than 30 days to collect signatures. We're going to get acidified for 30 days, so we're doing everything we can to motivate Croatian citizens, to come, to then, when we get all the permission, now wait 30 days. Well, I mean, what's that for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120848	... We have one replica, Honorable Agent Davor Ivo Stier. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I only answered because today this Venice Commission has been mentioned several times, and I'm also a member of this, the Committee for the Democratic Elections of the Venice Commission, so I went to the document. I don't see what you said was against it, and during the debate, it has been said several times that the Venice Commission says there should be no quorum or qualified majority in referendums. However, I looked right at the text of the Venice Commission and it says, when it comes to constitutional categories, then it says it is acceptable to have a special quorum prescribed and qualified majority, therefore, the Venice Commission is mentioned many times today, but unfortunately mostly wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120850	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120851	You have referred to only one provision, recommendations from the Venice Commission regarding amendments to the Constitution and I agree, they said, the rule of law, parliament, etc., in these circumstances requires a quorum of decision, not everyone else. Therefore, let us not go in this, the general principles and recommendations of the Venice Commission are to go in favors. So let's not do everything, and everything you've done, we're collecting signatures for the president, for local elections, for parliamentary deputies, anywhere, by boards, by workplaces, by public surfaces, and here these signatures are exclusively there di says this local administration and self-government police in detail. It doesn't make sense, don't do it. It's for you, too. Is that all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120852	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120853	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I go from the end. We can, the Bridge, the SDP, the Workers' Front, the Voice, etc. are each other's tokens, tokens, tokens, whatever they call it. So they're all actually universes here, together against these constitutional changes. Right? Only everyone has a different initiative, or motivation, and maybe not. Or maybe there isn't. If you noticed in the debate of our esteemed leftists, let's call them progressives, although they're actually behind us, their biggest problem here is that the proposal for constitutional change won't do what they want, which is so-called. Right to abortion because HDZ doesn't want it. Now, they're gonna try to do it in every way they can actually force HDZ to put it on, but that still, as far as I can tell, won't go. And there's actually a problem, and everything else to the SDP actually fits. Now, I don't understand the Bridge. If they gave some ideological moratorium, and here they hold a ladder to the SDP or the Workers' Front or the Foreigners We can!, are they actually for the same constitutional changes proposed by the SDP? Or maybe there's some other game I don't see? The only conclusion that I can draw from those discussions that I have heard today is that this whole progressive opposition is a bridge, the Workers' Front, the Centre, the Voice, the SDP, etc., that they are all in favour of putting into the Constitution and the right to abortion. A little while ago, a colleague here said wrongly, the Constitutional Court didn't say that a real abortion was put into the Constitution. He didn't say. There was mentioned some right to privacy that no one really has any idea what it is, not a constitutional category at all, in the Constitution is not mentioned as such at all. Now, let's go, let's move on. Now, the key question is why did HDZ go with these constitutional changes at the moment. Now it's my enigma because with this actually HDZ got, he gave one chance to the team from the bridge to continue to paralyze on the referendums, and I responsibly argue and I'm going to repeat now that they are the main cemeteries of the referendum initiatives in Croatia. Head gravediggers. So with a stupid referendum, the People decided for which they had no idea what they were collecting signatures for, they destroyed a quality referendum that would shake the Croatian referendum on Istanbul, and they prayed to God and did everything possible to avoid our referendum against, or to protect the Croatian Kuna. Now, perhaps the only reason HDZ wants to do so is because in that timeline a little too much of the SDP's referendum initiative and that the right to abortion is disabled as a referendum category, to be put in place, implemented in the Constitution. If that's what HDZ's up to, then you'll have my support. Then they'll have my support. If it isn't, then I don't know what it is, I hope that with this referendum, in fact, I would have rushed these constitutional changes precisely because of the right to abortion which is a world-class topic cannot be a referendum that can't be decided on in a referendum, especially that it can't be placed as a category in the Croatian Constitution. Now, are we ever going to find out what intensity was, it doesn't matter, as long as there's a chance that we, through the amendments to the Constitution, protect at least a little right to life I'm going to be for these constitutional changes with it and at least to touch one dry metricum, and that's the meaning of the Proposal for a decision on the accession of constitutional change, I'm sorry I'm reading wrong, about the change of the Constitution here says simply, clearly and I don't know who it's not clear to. So far, we should have collected nearly 400,000 signatures, I've collected them many times, I've stepped a politician through the referendum initiatives, and we'll only have to do 250,000 under this proposal. So far we've had to do it in two weeks, from now we'll be able to do it in four weeks. And what's the problem? And so far, the Constitutional Court has decided whether or not it's constitutional or not, and from now on, only this one from now on, as far as I can see, in that first stage, that people don't collect signatures for nothing, but that they can adapt the question to what the Constitutional Court says. Here's so much on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120854	You have several replicas, the first to honor Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120855	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic, that you do not know how to define the concept of a coin seriously, I do not take it seriously. So you're saying that, that we can chip it to SDP, we can do it to GLAS, here's the Workers' Front, and vice versa, because together we're resisting limiting the possibility of conducting national referendums. It's called the opposition. And the chip is the one that was chosen as an opposition, and he went over to vote and defend most of it to you, which is Mr. Zekanovic's token, and your name and last name in the dictionary will stand as an explanation of the concept of a token. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120856	Dear fellow Bencic, here I am first glad that at least in the upper part you are properly dressed that you didn't come and this time in your mother's bedroom, I'm glad that you've done a little work on the clothes, but also slowly you'll find for the rest, I think you should put it in the Rules of Procedure, but here I'm glad you've made progress here. So, colleagues liked it either as much as you can, as you take yourself to call someone who supports the ruling majority, I didn't support her until now in any legal proposal chip. So, take, take Madame dear, for the right to have someone call you in the same way. So, you're all chipped among yourselves and you're preparing the right tokenisation for the next election when you're going along with your colleague Miletic here it's great there means our conservative Marin Miletic is together with you in his mother to go to the spa tomorrow to go to the elections or he'll co-ordinate pre-election and even in that case, if he verifys it with the public notary that he won't do it because he'll do it. It's a tokenization and you're in Can Mostu actually party In fact, the party to the token, or [[Intruder: Time.]] It's a token. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120857	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first to honor Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120858	Dear Vice President, this is the repeated insult of parliamentary deputies solely on the basis of their appearance and clothing. Except that it's an insult I must now express your concern about your obsession with my T-shirts on decks, with badecosts, and what you've already listed here, I'd ask you to refrain from the public if anything else, and you're being treated in private.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120859	Okay, you use this as a replica, you get a warning, and you tell him he's obsessed, and he tells you you don't have a T-shirt on a deck, so that's hard. You can, a little. [[Intruder: Can I harm the Rules of Procedure too?]] Is the next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120860	For the vice president, I actually have a suggestion. So Article 240 specifically tells you that a reminder by taking away a word is given to a representative who insults and now lists himself to whom everything can be insulted, including sexual, gender, and other groups. This is a typical example of discrimination and insult in the matter of gender, gender. So you can't let that happen, you have to react to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120861	Well, I didn't realize it that way, maybe it's about fashion details, she tells him he's obsessed, he tells her he's in his mother or he's not his mother, so I don't know. All right, next violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honor Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120862	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 has been injured by colleagues Zekanovic and by you. A colleague of Zekanovic insulted certain colleagues, and it would be good if you would warn him of his colleague Zekanovic and explain to him that it is more important to bring his brain and spine to the Croatian Parliament than a long pair of sleeves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120863	You estimate it's not your insult to tell your colleague to bring his brain, please, you get a warning about those words. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120864	So, honourable Vice President of course, 238, first I have to tell my esteemed colleague Bencic, don't flatter yourself you're not my type. So don't flatter yourself you're not my type. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120865	That's already, please colleague, colleague Zekanovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120866	...I don't know I've called you with a colleague but I don't know if you're a colleague or a colleague at all. I don't know wait this is native, native and fluid, I'm not saying I, I'll assume she's a colleague, it's quite fluid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120867	Comrade Zekanovic, you are now being warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120868	And why, what, what's weird about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120869	And because it was already an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120870	So now what can be both, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120871	That speech about fashion details one, this was an insult you get a warning. ... Please don't threaten me, don't threaten me, I've said a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, no, good. Replica, dear Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120872	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic thinks that sometimes the color of anything is eaten than anything to say I think this last one was wrong, you were wrong, and this one I understand that you can also be an effect, etc., that you can answer someone's question in your own way, but this really wasn't right for your colleagues. And now I'm going to be on the line, as to why we came into this story of amendments to the Constitution when we talk about the matter of the referendum, because we did the first reading of the referendum law and here, unisonally, unanimously, the need arose, or the pronunciation we have to settle that question properly, nothing else, just that. And we got into it, we talked about it for months, we came up with the text in front of the MPs, and we want support for it to work it out, but everything else started to come up except that question. Why do those who wanted to force it now not want to, obviously they like to be guided by one who says better not to settle anything than to settle what we can settle, and that's here in this matter of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120873	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120874	Dear colleague Boric, such as yourself, to answer something that was not the subject of my debate, I will answer to you. So, dear colleague Boric here you have noticed that from the left you will often hear and insult such as taking brains and fools and ridicles and it is actually tolerated. When I told my colleague I know that she was a female colleague, I suggested what she was really all along her agenda that the stork was fluid, so in that context when they attacked me that I had something against the female or gender I was just actually going to mock them that she had never declared herself, and it was an agenda that she actually constantly wanted to implement that the stork was fluid and that it could be determined at any moment. Unfortunately, hers here is like I said it's not my type so in that sense she can be absolutely calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120875	Next individual debate, respected Marijan Pavliček, since there is no Peovic and Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120876	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I think that my colleague Zekanovic has exaggerated, that he's really gone too far now and we can be ourselves, and we can argue about the style of dress but someone offending whether someone is male or female, I think you've really gone too far and I think we should think a little sooner or later about drinking a glass of water than you start talking. Here's to being honest. But we're back to these important topics. Namely, these proposed amendments to the Constitution and as constitutional law of the Constitutional Court are essentially not changing anything. The Institute of Referendum in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately a dead letter on paper. In the last 30 years, we have had as the promoter himself says in all 3 referendums, 2 mandatory one on Croatian independence, the other on the accession of the EU Republic and the third on behalf of one association, and that is the referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage. It just shows how so far the Institute's referendum worked in real life. With these proposed changes, nothing will change in particular. On the one hand, it is said that the number of signatures of potentials is reduced, but on the other hand we have the Pharaohic powers of a political body called the Constitutional Court, which can literally declare any referendum issue at the very beginning unconstitutional because it enters into direct powers or questions of the government, the president of the state or the assembly, or it affects minorities or some other general human issues. A very broad concept that we all know to the Constitutional Court that the choice is given an extremely high authority. We all know this country is based on three pillars of government. It's executive power, it's legislative authority, and it's judgmental authority. With these proposed changes, this balance is disrupted. In this case, the Constitutional Court gets abnormally large powers, and it is about people who do not have electoral legitimacy, who are elected here by political agreement, two, three or more political options and who will always or in most cases work in the interest of the ruling majority whether they are left or right, and this is a big mistake in this whole story, not to talk about introducing a voting quorum that is very difficult to meet especially in times where, in general, Croatian citizens are not motivated by politics, political topics and so on to come out for both elections and referendum initiatives. I hope that the ruling majority will not accept the proposals of the left liberal option and that the Constitution will not enter the right to kill innocent children because then the result of all of this would be two murders. And that's killing a referendum and the will of citizens and killing a child in the womb of a mother. And we can't afford that. We will not as the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns support this because I believe that definitely the Institute of the Referendum will continue to remain as so far a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120877	Here are two replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120878	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavlikek, I am pleased that you have returned to the point in your debate because today we are talking about a very important topic, and it is not good to go to some waters leading to triviality and even re-orculating this extremely important topic. What I'm interested in is your opinion and attitude regarding how much it makes sense to get into any kind of change while we have the voters' register as it is and when we have 3 million and 600,000 voters in the register, although the last census has shown that we are no more than 3 million and 900 thousand people, so the question is where are your imaginary some unreal voters, who votes in our elections, and when it comes to collecting signatures, then it's a very big one. The number. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120879	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120880	I agree with you, colleague Vucilović, but unfortunately this is another story from Croatia in the 21st century, a time of information that we are unable to have the right number of voters, that we have almost the same number of voters as the number of people. That's one thing. In addition, we believe that when constitutional changes are already being made, then they must be comprehensive. So we have made it clear and clear that we would support the amendments to the Constitution on one condition, which is that a separate item is inserted into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where the powers of MPs from the ranks of national minorities will be precisely defined, or that they can vote on anything other than government or individual minister or non-trust, because we already know that, in accordance with current positive electoral laws for national minorities, they have guaranteed mandates at the beginning and that for years the government depends on 8 pre-secured representatives of national minorities, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120881	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120882	A respected colleague listens to Prime Minister and Minister Tramišak who says Slavonia, Baranja flourished, as more and more people return and then approximately so is this referendum by analogy. So, we who have passed these villages there see that every other house is empty, that people are in big trouble, that the poor are everywhere. So also here, they say it will make the referendum easier to implement, let us make it clear to the Croatian people. This in figures means how much, that the secretary of state will have to come out today, again politically, I forest him by road whether he is already going, how many Croatian citizens will have to come out, put his signature on to succeed. The data is here we've heard millions and 200,000 people. So, it's only if Papa Franjo was organizing a referendum that wouldn't work, I'm the only one who doesn't know who does. So, I don't know which rock group, I don't know how a referendum under these conditions can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120883	I agree, I agree with you, and what you said is not only about empty houses but the bigger problem is that the population that remains in Slavonia is an extremely old population. Unfortunately, this population is not able to get out of its own village almost, let alone go and launch certain referendum initiatives or support them. And like you said, nothing's gonna change with this. Time will unfortunately show if this is voted out that in the next 30 years as well as in the previous 30 we will not have a maximum of one to two successful referendum initiatives, which means that there is only one here on this paper and in real life not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120884	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120885	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues in this document which they had before them are said to have been authorised by the Constitutional Court to declare a referendum inadmissible if the contents of the referendum question do not comply with the general principles and the highest values of the constitutional order set out in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution. And I've been wondering all along, and I've also set up a replica, which are actually topics that are also said to be defined for which a referendum cannot be called. The interpretation mentions what goes into the part-round assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the President of the Republic of Croatia, but is not precisely defined. Some countries have specifically prescribed topics that cannot be decided in the referendum. When you look at the web mentioned by constitutional experts, so what topics would be real estate tax, physical policy, customs, VAT reduction, commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to international contracts, declaration of war to another country, search for capital punishment, outsourcing, monetization of highways, provoking early elections, changes in the political system, etc. In any case, the Ombudsman points out that human or minority rights should be taken into account. When I set up a replica of my colleague, Bosnjakovic, he also did not know what exactly defined topics were, but in any case he thinks he should leave room for the Constitutional Court, but then again we wonder if the Constitutional Court will have too much power. So we don't have defined topics that can be discussed, can't be discussed, so the question seems right to me. The next thing, we have submitted our proposal to amend the Constitution which, of course, HDZ did not accept, and I see that it is constantly wrong to say what we wanted in addition to or amending the Constitution. So we want to add, in Article 63, paragraph 2 that reads, a colleague should listen because he is constantly disfellowshipped, so a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth. The State shall provide assumptions for the exercise of that right. So the presumption of a birth decision does not necessarily mean how a colleague says murder of children, does not involve just abortion. I remind you of a medical plan to give birth to children. So of course you have different methods of preventing conception, but you have normal and abortion, you have oral contraceptives, you have medically assisted fertilization, you have in vitro fertilization for which many gynecologists also have an appeal of conscience, they don't just have to abortion. I'm sure we'll talk about it a little bit more later. If we don't bring all this together into the amendments to the Constitution which HDZ refuses to guarantee that today's decision by some majority will not make any changes that happened in America after a few decades. Who can guarantee that? For the proposal of the Law on Medical Procedure, the pregnancy that we discussed a few months ago if I am not mistaken, and I think I am not wrong because I have now checked the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been manifested at all, and on the other hand the interpretation of why not this one of ours, this requirement to change the Constitution mass with the information you have everything in the Constitution. Well, I've really looked at this book a lot of times, and I really don't know where it says in the Constitution what we're looking for, so it's decoded that someone can't deny it. And the question that I'm asking myself, what exactly are my HDZ colleagues up to? How did they imagine we would change the Constitution? So the fact is that the Constitution doesn't change every little bit, the fact that we want to change it in some elements, refreshed, but then how do they intend to do it? So, our proposals are not accepted, they want us to accept theirs. So it's not a question of any trade or blackmail. I've never dealt with it, but it's a matter of some honest approach and an answer to the question, do we really want a better constitution? Now, here are two initiatives, let's say for the amendment to the Constitution, and then I wonder how they imagined it to accomplish some kind of majority. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120886	We have a replica, a respected Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120887	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Maric, constitutional law experts say that when it comes to the referendum, there are three key things. So it's the time to collect signatures, the number of signatures, but also what you've dedicated your individual debate to, and these are topics on which the referendum can't actually be called. This, as you have stated, and here I agree with you, is mentioned here, so the part-round work of the assembly, the government, the president, and then we really have to ask ourselves what are the topics on which a referendum can be called at all, if we rule out everything that is in the work of these three institutions that are mentioned. So here's what I'm wondering what you're thinking with this proposal is it making it easier to carry out a referendum or is it completely impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120888	Thank you very much, so I'm saying here I was really watching it in some other countries where certain topics are explicitly prescribed. And I'm asking myself a question, I'm not a lawyer, here, but at least I can read something, what you're saying and you and I have said and during the debate, we really don't know to what extent and to what extent the Constitutional Court is actually going to take some power. And the question at all is what kind of referendum we're going to be able to call as a people. So honestly, I'm a little skeptical about this, and if you define exactly what the topics would be, then that's another thing. So we should, of course, talk about it, but at this point it seems a little blurry to me, here's the gray zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120889	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned colleagues about the referendum that you have looked at regulations in other European countries the comparative methodology is fine, but if we apply it to this other issue that you said, the birthright, then we see that almost no EU member states have that in the Constitution. So, if we're going to be congenital then we have to say that if we look at what the standard is, what are the constitutions of the EU member states, it's mostly not in the constitution, it's not a constitutional category. There is a right to life, there is a right to privacy that means that the state does not interfere at certain times, leaves it to individuals, but this right as it was in the socialist constitution of this Croatia does not have the majority of European states.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120891	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120892	Thank you very much. I asked the question, but I also made a point that when we talked about the Law on Medical Law, if the termination of pregnancy was not manifested at all. Right? So she didn't consider herself worthy of giving her opinion at all. The second thing, I also asked, knowers who are greater acquaintances in a legal sense than me, where exactly defined in the Constitution and guaranteed that what happened in America would not happen after decades. So, we have here in Article 1 well write that the foundations of the Constitution are, among other things, gender equality, which we see is not exactly in practice from unequal salaries, unequal treatment, insults which we bear from both colleagues Prkačin and colleagues of Zekanovic, so there are a lot of things that, which should actually be followed by what they write in the Constitution, and they do not come true. So, I didn't find it here. Decided by what it says. [[Intruder: Time.]] Why don't we be better than the others?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120893	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120894	The referendum is changed in the Constitution. Is he down there? ... Well, I think it'd be better here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would just continue to mean the referendum was fairer if you said there was no referendum, that you said we were erasing the referendum and there is no referendum because this way you have now made, this way you have now essentially sent a message that Bačić's best man, Sheparovic, along with a drunk with Seks, will make decisions about the referendum. I think it's time for a referendum on the referendum. I invite them to all initiatives, citizens' associations to finally launch a referendum on the referendum and that the people define it, if you can cut it down a bit here just for the sake of it, a referendum on the referendum. Why? Because this way and this process where we have to have a 1/3-choice quorum is impossible to reach and then you have no one here legitimacy or me who has received more than 10,000 preferential votes. Who are we representing here? Who are we representing here? Do we represent the interests of the people at this time or the interests of this gentleman here who is behind this noise, I have no idea what this is about because instead of running a session, he would ask that both Mr. Bukarica and Mr. Sanader be silenced. The referendum and the constitution are connected, people's entire lives are fighting for democracy and constitution, only God is above it and when we talk about it then the constitution doesn't change this way, and the people will pass it by and there's no right to Šeparović, neither Bačić nor, neither, nor Boric nor, I don't know who decides on Komin which issue will be constitutional. Well, you've made this country a banana state, full of crisis, so you've introduced these command measures that have led to the level that, if people didn't know, they were at each other's house, and while you were hugging and kissing on ships, as you hugged at pre-election meetings, at celebrations, so you're talking about a referendum, you're gravediggers of the referendum, you're gravediggers of the referendum. And it's even more painful what, during the rabbits, heroes who are so brave here compare for example. Me and the others here, Bridge and I don't know who with anyone, and besides that, imagine a bunny telling you one of your wives in public you're not my type. I don't have to agree with anyone, I greatly appreciate women, we may not agree in the most cases, but this behavior of those chips that were bought with sinacurams in the local elections, with the syncures is disastrous, the only thing they've been given obsessively is the task of having this referendum, haven't you been to the referendums before me, peek at me. I wonder here that there is no Djakic, that there is no Deura, those defenders who have defended the country and said, so don't pass, don't do this, don't steal the constitution, don't be, don't be the gravediggers of democracy and the constitution for which you fought Mr. Boric, there are none, why there are no Deura, why there isn't no Deura here and... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120895	Please don't argue from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120896	You're nervous again, and then you insult women as they dress. When a suit makes a man, the main theme suit, so long ago it's written that a suit doesn't make a man, unfortunately we just look at people through suits, just watch how we're dressed, how we're written, and you're shutting down democracy. You won't get away with it, I'll tell you that you won't get away with it, it won't get away with it, at least now I'll just tell you one parallel. What you did to the people around the water that you tried to put in the constitution, water, you tribal water put in the constitution and protect, not 500% of the accumulated electrical energy at your crown of Peronja which was mayor, I know it well, behind it was Sanader or Ževrna, and he sends the orders to the waterworks of the Cetina region did they collect HEP which is our people's property, 500%. It won't happen to you, it doesn't have to be mayor, come to Sinjian alka, come to Sinj Alka and look the people in the eyes as you light the dark, as you take their referendum, so you've been passing the referendum here to join the EU, to get in less than 50% of the people, if a single man had passed the referendum, and now what do you impose? You force Sheparovic to decide on me and the people. The Constitutional Court of the Triba suspended immediately after what it did to our referendum, which the people gathered on the headquarters measures, be ashamed of what you are doing. You have abolished democracy. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120897	The individual next debate is the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120898	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So democracy was generally thought to die in front of pipes of cannons in revolutions and in coups. Today, unfortunately, it is much more likely that they will be slowly extinguished in the name of the people. Parliamentary democracy is a fine mechanism that has been effective and just requires a lot of compromises, dialogues, alignments, arguments, and sometimes even discounts. In the Republic of Croatia, we have an unregulated referendum framework that serves only to ask citizens under quotes, which leads to our democracy in fact in danger of being killed by political demagogues who represent themselves as the only and true leader of the people and who neglect the constitutional structure of freedom, parliamentary democracy, control of courts and restrictions, which is very important to highlight the restrictions that are brought into direct contact with the decision of the electoral body. In Croatia, the referendums so far do not lead to any compromises, no phillingar agreements, but actually depend only on who gets the vote more. The referendums, unfortunately, are increasingly used in Europe and Croatia to make certain decisions that cannot be passed in parliament. It is claimed that there must be no obstacle to the rule of the people and there is already a kind of referendum in which the referendum directly connects to mania. The Republic of Croatia has long been threatened by such threats by political groups that are extremely opposed to government policies, starting with Catholic conservatives and other various populists. It is precisely thanks to the inadequate regulation of the referendum on civil initiatives, where no quorum is spoken of, but the decision is taken by the majority of those who vote, there are precisely possibilities for manipulation of huge, okay, population is derived from the people and this is the basis of its legitimacy and the criteria of action. In sociology, populism marks ideas and social movements that opposed the domination of elites, and represent an improvement in the socioeconomic position of middle and lower classes. Often, this strategy of destroying an institutional apparatus and creating an effective system was generally guided by a single leader of a nation. In particular, the Croatian model of an unregulated referendum which makes the provision of art. Article 87(4) of the Constitution concerning the provision of Article 5 of the same constitutional article under which the decision is to be taken. According to the key provision of St. 4. adopted and in force in 2010, the referendum is decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum and such a decision is mandatory. It is, of course, necessary to point out the differences between the requirements therefore set out by the development of democracy and populism. Democracy marks the elaborated system based on the election of political responsibility and the restriction of the government that really seeks participation in the wider circle of citizens in political decision-making and therefore retains the institutions of direct democracy, in the first place the referendum but which must be clearly defined. In Croatia there is a problem and the state of education and so on. The education fama for a life where in fact this life of ours we identify with STEM education which seriously threatens the development of social humanistic sciences. This is the problem of the Croatian European and modern state in which civic education, basic education for democratic decision-making is not introduced and God asks when it will be introduced, and the polls that you can see and the knowledge of freshmen for years suggest an extremely worrying state of knowledge of history, politics and constitutional rights in graduates even in elite high schools. So far, the practice of the referendum through the so-called Contaminated populism was actually a manipulation and prejudice towards minorities, a potential conflict in order to engage a larger mass of people on persuasion issues, to launch mass propaganda, to untrue news, and actually to push citizens into camp us or them. In economic terms, this has led to the promise of some problems that cannot be solved, to build a wall, for economic, sociological and political problems are not solved by cement, iron, or armature. Once again, I will say that the SDP wanted in 2013, and HDZ did not want from exactly why it is necessary to create a more sophisticated framework that will protect minorities, where some things will be entered into the Constitution and will actually allow most to affirm their goals and interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120899	Next is the individual debate of the respected Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120900	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are on the first step of three to try to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia after 10 years, which is not any law that we are used to changing some of them unfortunately, even once a year, and thus even pour legal uncertainty into the system itself, at least those of which these same laws concern. When it comes to constitutional changes and when we decide for them, and we see that it doesn't happen so often, then we need to look at things wider and we need to set things up in such a way that they're better because if we make them worse, then it's better that we don't touch anything and we don't touch it. I think the majority opinion in this Croatian Parliament is that it is necessary to change the system for the referendum, but I also hope that the majority view of this assembly is that these changes must be better. And we're open to that, but not just that. If in the environment we have countries like Hungary and Poland where the unprecedented impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms occurs, if we have an American who is perceived as a cradle of democracy and human rights in which the unfavorable events of the last few months occur, then we must do everything in our country when we have the opportunity to protect and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of that opportunity. I think it's this opportunity. There is no stronger place to protect and improve human rights and fundamental freedoms than the Republic of Croatia. And our position is the progressive opposition that at this point, we can't go through without it. And those who claim that the American scenario cannot happen to us and that our law is secure and that the constitutionally unlicensed women's right to choose and make a free decision about the birth of children, I certainly don't advise you to deceive the Croatian public. The law we have today, and most in this assembly allow some structures to obstruct it and prevent its implementation, was passed in '78. The year is based on the constitutional value of the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, which says the woman has the right to choose. The law continued on a constitutional basis that existed in the present constitution. In 2022, there is no constitutional provision. The Americans did not have it either, so the interpretation of the constitution and the right of the woman to abortion stemmed from some legally prescribed constitutional right to privacy, 73 was called upon to do so. The Supreme Court in America, our Constitutional Court in 2017 was called upon to do so. And Ruth Bader, judge of the Supreme Court, has warned the feminists for years that this decision of '73. The Supreme Court's climate is because it is not based on constitutional right to vote, but on constitutional right to privacy. The constitutional right to privacy was based on our Constitutional Court. So let's not wait for the circumstances to change and for what happened in America to be under Trump's pressure to make this one decisive and decisive vote to decide on the fate of millions of women in America but only to do right and only positive for our women in Croatia, which is that we guarantee it with the constitution and I expect that this first step will be a step that will not be closed just to what you suggested in the draft but to take into account some other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120901	You have several replicas, the first respected Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120902	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you're absolutely right. If we look at other countries, it is evident that we do not smoke cold but that when we advocate that women's rights to choice are protected in the constitution, then we advocate the defence of something that is in many countries, but also in the United States, Poland or Hungary being questioned, and if it could have happened there, then there is a danger that something similar will happen in Croatia and if we have tools and mechanisms to prevent such a situation from happening to us then our duty, our duty, our duty, and I will even say the sacred duty to prevent it, the tool we have, and it is up to us to use it. But what I don't understand is that we have one political party, it's right of you who nominally advocates that it is the right to protect itself, and does not want to install it into that act that is best for the protection of all rights, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120903	Replication response, breach of the Rules of Procedure, pardon, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 232, and you hurt him because the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. My colleague Glasovac talked about everything but the point that is here, and we are talking about amendments to the constitution regarding the implementation of the referendum, and I can see that, in that tone, my colleague Grbin also continued to do so, and you did not mention them, nor did you mention a colleague of the Glasovac, nor did you mention a colleague of the Grbins.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120905	Okay, you're right, but that's what a lot of people do, so if we introduced that practice, we'd interrupt them all. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120906	Thank you. Comrade Grbin, you see, I have devoted a great deal of my debate to what I think should be the theme of changing the constitution along with these improvements if they are possible in the referendum system itself. You're absolutely right about one thing very important. We representatives here are between not only the legislative body but also the representative and to listen to any Croatian citizens who, in more than 70%, say that we should protect women's right to vote in the constitution, even if we had to hold a referendum, then we would talk a lot more about this subject today, and we would not close the door through this kind of draft, and we would pretend that we are open to discussions on changes alone... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120907	The next replica of the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120908	Thank you. Do you guys think that the social climate, for example, is now mentioned by America, that maybe it's different from the social climate that ruled Europe I'm going to say, in the '30s or '40s that actually allowed both Nazism and fascism to rule one area? Some of the things that you mentioned and that happened in America because they were not clearly defined, certain, I will call them, even social dogs, and I will list them, and that should first of all protect minority rights, and therefore women's rights to choices that have never been included in some constitutional acts, do you think the social climate can't change just like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120909	Thank you, fellow Doncic. Well, I think that in America, the social climate is completely different from what a handful of males have allowed themselves to decide on behalf of women and defile their rights, and that is what I see a great similarity with Croatia, which is also the social climate in Croatia so that more than 70% of Croatian citizens feel that women have the right to choose and make a free decision about birth, but that in politics there is no courage among males and there is no power to hear it and to behave in accordance with such a social climate. The fact that it is allowed to be declared is also supported by the fact that the law that states that a woman today has certain rights allows for years to be obstructed through the health system and systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120910	Time. Dear Andreja Maric, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120911	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I must correct my colleague Vucilović, we are in the topic because the subject is called the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Republic of Croatia, where there is nowhere to write only about the referendum, so we are talking about amendments to the constitution, which is proposed by colleagues, which we suggest, etc.. It's not worse to repeat more times, I've talked about it, you've talked about it, so what we want in ours, is our motions for change, so we want a sentence, a woman has the right to freely and independently decide about birth, the state provides assumptions for the exercise of that right. What is so controversial to me is really not clear, are these methods of prevention of conception, different things exist, and that's where AB enters, are oral contraceptives, medically assisted insemination, IVF, which is controversial? I don't think it's anything controversial, is it spite or are they actually afraid of their constituents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120912	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120913	I'm not going into what's controversial here, but we're also talking about the Law on the right to terminate pregnancy and the obstruction of the existing law, and we're saying that in the ruling majority, or HDZ, there's an unprecedented cowardice, which is worse than being determined, even if you're doing bad things. Cowardice is 10 times worse than that. What I see as a problem in this first step is lies and deception. All morning we've been hearing from the promoters here that this is the first step, we're just opening talks on changing the Constitution, we'll see, we'll agree, it's a process, and then this draft is set up by the Gabarites. We're being put in a cage where de facto is being sent a message that either you'll accept what we've suggested along with some little maybe alterations, but just stick to the strict referendum or there's none of it. That's what I see as a key problem. That's what we don't agree to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120914	And the last replica, the esteemed Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120915	I haven't listened to a funnier debate in a long time than my colleague Voter's debate. She talks about the HDZ putting her in a cage with what was proposed, and her club president announces he will vote on Friday for what was proposed. So, first, you deal with yourself and the club what you think of what HDZ has suggested. And secondly, when you talk about males, if you vote for this, you will give these men, Šeparovic, Mlakar and others the right to decide on every referendum issue before the signatures begin. And if you're not such hypocrites as you seem to be, I'm asking you a question, will you go to the signing collection in the fall and collect them by the old rules or by this one you'll vote for on Friday when you're going to vote for this cage that HDZ has prepared for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120916	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120917	Thank you, dear Vice President. He was injured in Article 238, calling the debate of Vice President Glasovac a funny one, especially when he comes from the mouth of a colleague who was supposed to be at his workplace in the assembly, and then shoots funny videos as suddenly travels to Zagreb to save the people instead of being in his workplace where he should have been since Monday. So that you are summed up with yourself And then you say, [[Intruder: Time.]] others. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120918	You're getting a warning. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120919	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, that at least a colleague of Mirela Ahmetovic has stood up, regardless of how many attitudes we share, is a fair woman and can also give a doctor, and someone who steals 50,000 kunas doesn't report them, and even today we don't know who he paid the money to, he gives a representative who's about 12 times more active than he is, and even when he's from Peđa, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120920	Okay, you're getting a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120921	You find it funny what happens in America and what I'm talking about is that we need to do everything to avoid the American scenario, and that scenario is that millions of women are currently left without a key and fundamental right to choose to decide what they're going to do with their body. That's funny to you? What will those who have money go to implement their decision in action in other countries in America, and those who do not will go to the black market and endanger their lives and their health. You think that's funny? I'm sad that you've qualified yourself with this comment in a group of these males who so easily call women's subjects and women's human rights ridiculous. [[Intruder: No, you will vote on Friday for the HDZ proposal.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120922	Following is an individual debate of the respected Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120923	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution does not change every day, does not change every year, does not change every mandate. It is rarely changed, so once its amendments have been approached, it is reasonable to do a serious, systematic analysis and to discuss all the issues that are being regulated by the Constitution, which are important for this society, and you will agree that everyone here is present that, apart from the question of the referendum, there are still other issues that are being addressed by the Constitution, which, regardless of which political option, would all of you have been slightly redefined in accordance with today's time, in accordance with the possibility of the functioning of this Constitution. Many times already here, many provisions of the Constitution have been highlighted, from the fact that some of the provisions in reality do not work at all, such as fundamental human rights, to the fact that the co-creation of foreign policy between the government and the president of the state does not work. There is a problem and a list of voters, election units and other details that are or may be an obstacle to the functionality of the Constitution in terms of contributing to the development of our young seems still too young democracy. It is precisely the fact that the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as submitted by 92 signatories, restricted it to the amendment of the Constitution only and exclusively to three articles concerning the issue of implementation of the referendum, is our main objection to this proposal for a decision. We are in favour of accessing the amendments to the Constitution, but it depends on what they will be like whether we support these changes or not, whatever Nikola Grmoya has said. It is necessary to run the process of amending the Constitution when it comes to the referendum and it is true, but changes to the Constitution are not done every day. I said they don't work every year or every term. If we are a serious state then we will take seriously the problems that require a change in the basic act of the modern state or sovereign state, and these problems are not only the implementation of the referendum, they are not or someone wants to say that this is a more important problem than the fact that women are inequitable members of this society, that they are not only referred to as men as constitutional provision that man's freedom is invulnerable and that it cannot be limited by the will of the unspeakable directors or ministers or you want to say that the constitution guaranteeed dignity, self-determination and freedom of decision applies only to people who choose their lives to act in the way that part of the public or perhaps you personally expect them here, or simply that it is not a problem that in our country, the EU member, does not comply with the laws, whether you say it or want to say that you have enough courage and stand up to defend fundamental human rights, even though they are left in your country, that you are free of law, and that you are aware of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law that you are not put, and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Member of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Member of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law The long-term debate on this issue is a stable and stable high degree of consensus by citizens, voters, prime ministers, coalition partners of the HDZ, the constitutional court, but a stable and stable lack of the courage of HDZ to make its wish and wish for all civilised citizens of the Republic and to achieve, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120924	Replica's first respected Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120925	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is sad and even tragic that some of our colleagues do not understand or want to understand what today’s debate is about. Today's debate is whether or not we will approach a change of constitution and it is absolutely legitimate when we explain our position and talk about what is proposed, but also about what we believe should be proposed. When I listen to my HDZ colleagues they talk about the need to reach consensus or consensus and I agree absolutely with them about it, but the consensus is impossible if one vote does not want to listen to the other and that is what we are looking for, on Friday we are looking for a simple thing, accept to listen to all the votes in HS about what we think and what is crucial at this point to enter our constitution, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120926	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120927	Dear counterpart Grbin, it is generally known that HDZ is ready for consensus if it is according to their rules, and then it is no longer a consensus, it is something quite different, and good colleague Glasovac said in her debate which was not at all funny at all, HDZ and all those who signed this initiative agreed to change the constitution, but only in the section concerning the referendum issues, and it concerns only 3 articles of the 152 articles of the Croatian Constitution, as if nothing else was problematic, as if everything was perfect in our country, and I am sure that none of the representatives here present here agree with this claim, but do not all have the courage to say what is still needed in the constitution to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120928	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120929	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when you spoke of the specific needs of amending the constitution as if I had listened to a good part of my speech and in that part I agree. She would comment on the other two circumstances. The referendum is the highest standard of direct decision by the citizens themselves, so the crown of democracy, and is it not a little more radical that a political party who is actually the model of a party's thinking from the communist Yugoslav socialist system that you so often attack has simply implemented the very root of the functioning of the Croatian state from day one to the day today is just such a political party that recognises the will of only one man and the head of the party is now seeking to spread democracy and better regulate the matter of the referendum, to me it sounds a little speculative, how does it sound to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120930	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120931	Thank you very much. My colleagues Oreshkovic, so don't ask me what I think about what HDZ thinks about the former system, so they're the ones who actually put into today's speech a function that their founder, who, as a demeanor, gave it to me, so they love such a system that they actually do, even in this proposal, and they do it in a way that so-called. democracy and consensus are trying to show in a way that they dictate in which frameworks democracy can be implemented, we will only and exclusively discuss what we want and not a millimeter away, so much about democracy from HDZ, but I am not surprised, I am surprised by those others who have supported such democracy in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120932	Followed by a replica of the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120933	Thank you, Vice President HS Mr. Sanader. My colleague Ahmetović, without patheticity, you know how much I respect you as a person, and now I don't understand this as Marina, I don't care about my MOST, my HDZ, or SDP, or anything at all. I know some of you, I don't know you for maybe a lot of years, for the sake of hearing whether it's more or not, and that personally and by feeling no, how could it be that you supported HDZ by your signature, so we could discuss this topic and I really think we should discuss everything, I think we're talking about Friday about voting, so forgive me. How is possible, we can discuss everything and we need to discuss it, it is democracy, and I really believe that every debate is good, that it deepens the topic and that we are aware of ourselves in the end, but on Friday there will be a vote, can you give Croatian people, citizens of our Fumani Rivers, in Omislja tell people what you will really raise your hand for HDZ's proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120934	Dear counterpart Miletic, I am truly sorry that today you are part of a team that flies like a fly without a head, who is trying to convince Croatian citizens that the future is now, you are talking about a vote Friday, today is Wednesday, where you say what the SDP will do on Friday. Trying, trying to impute Friday that MOST influenced how SDP would vote, so cheap pulsism, cheaper pulsism in life I haven't seen. I had hoped of all of you, but from you fellow Miletic at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120935	But it's not right for you to tell them they're like flies without heads because they're not MPs after all. And I won't give you a warning just to warn you. [[Intruder: Give me a warning.]] Here's Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic Please. [[Intruder: Sad, Nikola sad.]] Please, please, please, Mr. Grmoya. [[Intruder: Sad Nikola, sad, sad you know better.]] Please, I'll give you a warning. [[You know better.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120936	Thank you. I would ask my colleagues Ahmetovic to explain once again to some colleagues in the assembly that what we are discussing today and what they are likely to vote on on Friday, is actually the very beginning of a political story, so which should be returned to the foundations of liberal democracy, which is that MPs and their representatives are therefore discussing, that they have a compromise together, and that even somewhere they give up because then it would be only then that one consensus in the liberal democracy that is actually possible. So please explain to another colleague the difference between No, no, I don't have another 10 seconds because I've been listening to them, I've watched this one, so you can explain again the difference between the beginning of the story and something that can only come at nine months. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you and thank you for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120937	Okay, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120938	A colleague, Hajdash Doncic, once called you Grandma Wang, and now I'm moving that nickname to the MOST deputies because they know what's going to happen on Friday. What they don't know, and it's obvious from their discussions procedures about changes to the Constitution itself. So here today we are discussing information to colleagues from the Most about the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution, and in the proposal for a decision by the HDZ and all those who have signed such a proposal to the HDZ set out the frameworks in which the Constitution may be amended. And then the SDP MPs' club tabled an amendment on this very framework because we are opposed to this framework, and the MOST colleagues are already accusing the SDP of something that will happen or will not happen on Friday, in two days. So who's there, Grandma Wang?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120939	The next replica honours Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120940	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ahmetovic, you started your presentation could be characterized like that with the one where the ball is a masculine, is since we're changing the Constitution so let's try to throw something else in. So for the last time in the change, Zoran Milanovic said that the diaspora only has 3 MPs in the assembly, and now he's so keenly worried about the rights of our Croats in BiH, and now you've thought about putting something in, but Andrej Plenkovic has rejected you, HDZ has rejected you. And this is all now in all your discussions going in one direction which is a little bit and sad not to say pathetic because it turns out you're begging them, you're doing that they respect and what you're proposing, and they're really not, they're mean, they're awful, and here I usually appreciate your work in the fight against corruption and everything, and I really think you're doing it great. But this part obviously won't work out for you, so it's a waste of your effort. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120941	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120942	Dear colleagues, Vucilović, I would prefer that you were so active in the defence of counterpart Sandra Bencic when she was, in fact, the subject of insulting fellow Zekanovic here and, of course, with the assistance of the vice president of the assembly, and not so active in defending HDZ's insistence and, of course, from its satellites and temporary satellites, the insistence that, in a strictly non-democratic procedure, the right of all MPs to discuss amendments to the Constitution within that framework and in the extent needed in a civilised, European, democratic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120943	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120944	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ahmetovic injured Article 238, disdaining the MPs specifically me, means that she stayed here she would have heard that our president and party and club condemned what my colleague Zekanovic said and in a very active way stood in this matter, and those football scenes of dating, turning backs, etc., and representing, and the behaviors that I do not accept in the assembly, everyone acts as he thinks he is appropriate. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120945	Time. You obviously made a lapus, you said Mr. Zekanovic, and you meant someone else. I have to warn you because this was a replica. The next individual debate was respected by Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120946	Here I will rely on this latest replica of my colleague Vucimilović, but also on the overall debate of my colleague Ahmetovic. So, if this generation now, we all together, we haven't reached that level of political and democratic maturity, and even political cultures, to join in serious debates on how we're going to build this constitutional architecture and the architecture of the state, then the best thing by constitution is nothing and not tangle. Namely, the constitution belongs to the people, belongs to the nation, doesn't belong to political parties, we're all here for a limited age, canned no, 4g. One term or maybe more, but even when there are several consecutive mandates, the constitution should still outlive us all together, and if it is well-coordinated, unfortunately it is not and it is true that the constitution does not change every day, not every year, nor every mandate, nor does the referendums take place so often, when there is a need for them and when there really is a serious and organised structure behind a referendum can and can succeed, the referendum is not our biggest problem. The constitution, the first one in the 1990s, despite the good and noble intentions of its creation, and my late father-in-law Slaven Letica, unfortunately, was not good. In many ways, many values of fundamental principles such as the secularity of the state and antifascism function quite differently in practice than the idea written in the constitution. The original constitution has experienced several changes, but even with these changes in the institutional sense, it has not yet been completed, it has not been laid on good and solid foundations, it is still our country. The rule of law implies that the laws are in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, that fundamental value of the rule of law still does not exist, it simply does not exist, cannot be, nor can it, as long as the constitution itself is in itself contradictory or indeterminate or simply not respected in practice in those politically sensitive issues relating to the relationship between the different branches of the state government and the different holders of the government. But just for that part, that politically sensitive part seems like none of us care, our constituents, so we're not just parliamentary representatives from the ranks of the position and the opposition, we're constitutionalists and we keep quiet about what's fundamentally not working in our country, and if it doesn't work, it doesn't even work to control that same government. When two hills argue whether it's some important foreign policy attitude and argue and argue to the level that we have brought down our state reputation in the international community. Is there an institution, is there a procedural mechanism for these two hills to be called to order and to be told to their faces by gentlemen dearly, so you do not adhere to the constitution and what kind of state that can tolerate such a situation and be considered as such still exists, that there is a notion of a state. And then this same, this same model, this same matrix of overruns and all the other everyday life situations, that's what our citizens see, it's not a referendum problem, the referendums are actually part of a political game, there are referendums that this government has managed to stop with its political mumbo jumbos, here's what's concrete about you, but you can't say that you haven't achieved some goals, you've promoted your ideas, you've promoted your political attitudes, you've grown in your ratings, and I'm against that rhetoric of Mr. Bačić and the complete HDZ that there's this energy that's strong in the collection of signatures should be eliminated, that it should be prevented. I want that energy, it's the energy of citizens who have the right not only to collect signatures, have the right to express their position with their signatures regardless of whether there will be a referendum or not, but it's all expensive in vain, it's just another form of showing frustration on everything that our citizens can't influence every day, and I can't influence because, as they say, the fish of the head stinks, and that head is the most positioned officials who, in the event of breaching the provisions of the constitution, no one in this country can do anything at all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120947	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120948	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bucaric, dear colleagues, ruling, respected colleagues of the opposition. First I have to say my personal attitude, I'm a little sick when I listen to us and when we go ad home to each other. I understand that we're different, we come from different stories, different environments, sociological, cultural, different families, different climates, but I'm really a little sick of this one border of human dignity, and I'd like to criticize each other using arguments, not arguments, I don't know dirty words, or under clear strokes, so I'm speaking for myself, and I'm here at the beginning of my parliamentary term, and then somehow you're thinking, so you realize that it doesn't make any sense, so here's an appeal. Second of all, I'm gonna be pretty plastic. We've been talking about a referendum here all day. This morning, Zagreb 7-8 rags, we say on the street fans or transparents, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 1st Rest and Peace, and indeed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 1 tells us among other things that the government comes from the people and belongs to the people. And this looks to me like when I was climbing, I think it was Via Italiana on Mangart, one mountain more serious on the cable, and then we didn't see if it was a notice, or if it wasn't that the GSS cut off the cable because it was changing and then you get to the top and watch it come up, it's a beautiful top and there's no cable to climb on, and you can't even go back. And so somehow the Croatian people are brought in, they're put in a position to say you have democracy, you can consume democracy, but there are such conditions that it's even a question of who can do it. Who can organise a referendum in Croatia and collect a million and 200 thousand signatures, okay, we said first reading, I accept that, but who can do this to my people, so who can do it, so it doesn't, so Papa Franjo to come you understand, I don't know who, guardian angels to come to organise the referendum. A million and 200,000, and then we have the ruling legitimately everything to understand, 17% got the electoral bodies and rule our Croatian. Okay, legitimately, I don't have a problem with that. And they ask the Croatian people 53% to come to a referendum so the referendum can pass. I've been sending it to me a few months ago, I was a very clear picture of what it was when he was fine about the referendum from Switzerland and said Marine sees the skeleton, I say what it is I have e, it tells you it's a skeleton because a man wanted to lift up the floor in Switzerland, according to the law of that canton, they have this some canton not allowed and asked people to come out to the referendum and the local canton allowed a referendum because it says it's the will of the people and if the people wanted it to be so. And people went to the referendum, said a man builds a floor and made it possible for a man to build a floor. And here we take that power from the people or not, but by ruling and saying you have a referendum, you have, you have, like she forgive me now on this, that mean one in that candy house, you have a sweet son, you have, come to the house, and you come to the house this head eats, your head eats, and it's not a grandmother, but some octopus corrupt with those huge arms, so we have, it's a picture of forgiveness with all due respect, I never generalize, I never generalize. I believe there are good people everywhere, just everywhere, but that's what happens. You have a referendum of Croatian peoples, but you won't be able to make it haa, you have a referendum of Croatian peoples, but we'll ask you, here you can collect it for 6 months, we'll give you 6 months to collect it, but it takes 2 million of you to get out, 2 million of you need to get out. And the Constitutional Court, thank you, fellow Grmoy, and about the Constitutional Court of Hahaha, and about the Constitutional Court is our companion, our godfathers, our relatives, our team. So even if, with some miracle, the deus ex makina comes down and you manage to make a referendum, some miracle Croatian people go crazy and succeeds in the middle of winter and collect signatures and says it's our will, a team comes to the Constitutional Court and says it won't work. The Croatian people, what we have here again, it's your fault, whatever God gives me never to come to the Croatian Parliament again and nowhere, to die in politics, it's your fault that we have this as we do, you're staying home heroes of the home living room instead of going out to the elections, so our fathers fought in the Homeland War for Freedom and Democracy, and you're sleeping, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120949	Next individual debate, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120950	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to say that I'm a little surprised with these discussions, and I've seen this morning that it's going to go wrong, and what's wrong is because one of the MPs came to the public last night, I guess he was somewhere under some tree resting for a few days and said he was going to rescue the people from this authority and these demands for amending the Constitution that touches the referendum. And I knew it would be wrong, and I'm sorry that the opposition got in a fight between each other in favour of those and those who only benefit from such a fight within the opposition parties, and that the focus of the important one was then lost and gone in the wrong direction entirely. They have achieved this and we regret that we have entered into this story organized as a responsible party who understands that the art policy is possible that at some point you can do something if there is a certain consensus between parties or if you have a majority that you can implement a specific project. And the trigger, of course, was the debate on the first reading referendum law. There was no option that didn't say it needed to be changed by the Constitution. You listen to people, you keep saying they're responsible and we come to an argument. So what do we have today? We've got a few groups. The populists say we won't talk to you at all, there are those from the Most, I don't know what about the Centro, the sovereigns etc., the Workers' Front. Those who dared to think straight think of the Social Democrats and some who signed, they were declared traitors and tokens, tokens of HDZ with one preparation, even media preparation. And those who, it's the most stable SDP here, Bauk still held the authority responsible for it, changed the constitutions in 2010, tried 2013, knew what it was, and they gave themselves up in another story and said that this question that I don't think has any basis for ideological, referendum, let's solve something that's process, event, could have at some point of implementation, but as some kind of institute of decision, there's no ideological basis for me, we're putting in a question that can go in that direction, so that's why we won't support you or we don't want to solve it at all. So at the end of the day, let's just do it so nothing happens and everything stays the way it is and we can all say, but that's the question no one wanted to solve again. Yeah, we want to work it out. HDZ doesn't have enough hands alone, there will never be a party that will have enough hands for it in such an electoral system, but there are conversations and ways to get there. And this is some first step, and in order for it to be convincing, then we have a blow to the Constitutional Court and it says, these are HDZ judges, they only judge who's from HDZ and they're some people who don't have their own knowledge and calling, they're people who are just with some political options. Let's go back to history, see what happened. So let's see what happened in 2013. An initiative to call a referendum on the quota for the application of the Constitutional Law on minority rights. Not 370,000 signatures. 632 165 signatures. The Constitutional Court does not allow a referendum, so-called about Cyrillic, if you remember, Mr. Thunder. Initiative to call a referendum on the adoption of a law against the calling of auxiliaries in the public state sector, 2014 Who's the minister? Arsen Bauk. 608 503 signatures, what does the Constitutional Court say? He did not allow a referendum because he concluded that the referendum issue was not in line with the Constitution. He wouldn't let it. 2014 initiative to call a referendum against the award of Croatian highways in concession, 530 thousand signatures. What did the Constitutional Court say? When the issue was to amend the law supplementing the amendments to the Roads Act, it is not allowed to call a referendum, the issue is not in line with the law. Who's the minister? Arsen Bauk. Who runs most of the Parliament? Peja Grbin. Who's the prime minister? Zoran Milanovic. Which is that court, a good boy of politics then, and this court, they're the bad guys of the current policy. I'm holding them as responsible as I am today. Just the same. Whoever changes or stays in that court. Why would they be good then when they were taking off... And now these are all some bad people, bad guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are even called in an inappropriate way, to be offended because they have one pillar that must be trusted, we trust him, we respect those decisions, let's not respect what? Where does that lead? If we don't trust the president of the state,... Government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the Parliament and MPs, to whom should we trust more? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a question of what we want. It was also the 2018 initiative. She didn't get enough votes, she didn't even go to the Constitutional Court, and she didn't go to this last one in the Constitutional Court, so the State Department. and this removal of Covid certificate [[Intruder: Time.]] And I didn't have time to say everything, [[We've got replicas.]] [[Intruder: The first is respected...]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120951	Caroline Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120952	... In the Croatian Constitution equality is prescribed before the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: Please, please do not throw from the bench, allow MPs to express the replica. Here you go.]] A fair tax system is prescribed. You of the governing structure have established such an injustice in which the people serve you as an ATM machine for the thieving that you protect. You're setting up monthly detentions for fans, and Todorovic didn't spend a day in an investigative prison. The equality before the law you deleted from the Croatian dictionary. You have institutionalized the robbery as if we were in England in the 18th century through the Executive Law, and the top of the executive mafia is good work of Croatian media, and now you're trying, what are you trying to do? You are trying to cement this epic injustice with constitutional jokes along with the Constitutional Court that devotes all decent people because in the good part it is made up of immoral and unethical persons. You know, there can be no injustice and no law to cement. According to your decision or your opinion on the day today, Communism and fascism would rule, but they've come to an end, and that's how it's going to end for you. Very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120953	Thank you very much, colleague Kristo. It all comes to an end in this world once. But you talk like that, like you do every day, reading these letters here that someone writes to you, so I mean, do you ever listen to what you say? How many people have you called here in two years without any evidence, because you find that interesting, because you're some kind of justice fighter and I don't know what this society is, we're all some kind of thieves and criminals. Do you listen to yourself when you read it? Well, it's not television, it's not HRT, it's spoken here, and I noticed that if you haven't written, you don't have an answer. No replica, no Rules of Procedure, and then you go outside. Who's writing this to you? Is that what you write and you get to write it yourself during the day? I think you read other people's opinions and you don't have your own, and this story that's something, etc., that I think to my colleagues what you're saying... It's a shame to me, as it was today some statements here between colleagues, especially between you from the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We opposition are very... What are we talking about here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120954	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120955	He's been injured. 238. No pathetic and miserable insult can justify your silence and non-responsiveness to very specific questions. You're ruining the Croatian people, you're robbing them, and now you're trying to use the Constitutional Corrupt Court to cement it to last forever. Right, well, you said one thing, everyone ends up, and your end is at the door. It's coming to an end very soon. [[Intruder: There's already been such a thing, so they're gone...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120956	Okay. This was your replica. You're getting a warning. Next replica, dear Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120957	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you mentioned the highway. Is that the same group that was picking up the highway to power, the Bridge back then? That group the secretary cleared from the government in three seconds. Is this the team that was running away from Prime Minister Plenkovic in Parliament because they couldn't face what they were trying to say? What is it about their expression and what is their agenda besides wanting to spoil, destroy and put in their focus the herd? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120958	Thank you, dear colleague Deur. ... I think that today we opened a whole topic that was asked to be opened, all agreed that the referendum should be regulated by the Constitution and the law that will go into the second reading, to take that story off the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: A Wolf Chetnik is this river'...]] [[Intruder: Please don't throw it out of the bench, don't spread it. I'll give you a warning.]] We've offered what we know and we can do the best we can, and those who are against, I say, already at the beginning, so they don't even want to talk. They don't want an orderly state. Don't think that, they don't care about this Law either, they don't care about the one we propose, they don't want to change the Constitution, because whatever we suggest they're against, and that's why it was funny to have one MP appear last night in the late hours, so fatal for the state, it's gonna go away, if he doesn't come to Zagreb after a few days of rest, and he doesn't save the people from the debate, and the debate runs neatly without him and he sits and participates. That people must see to it that they see seriously from the unserious, which is the defense of populistism, which are the policy options, which are that tomorrow you and those on the hoax of the people don't get the chance to make them unhappy like they tried twice in about six months, but we... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120959	Time. Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120960	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you have well defined how various populists on serious topics today collect cheap political points by not thinking about what is real and what is good that the right questions are really decided by a referendum in a serious way, that its constitutionality is assessed, that the issue is communicated to the public before it is sent to the Constitutional Court, and that the constitutional judges are elected by all of us who are elected by the people, and the people we represent in this Croatian home, we represent it in order to elect those judges who are then by the criteria that come and by the checks that are done at the time the most similar. Today's bickering about it certainly doesn't lead to anything, I don't think a reduction in the number of necessary signatures and evaluations and issues to be discussed in a referendum or to decide on a referendum is really necessary and necessary and that all normal and smart will support it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120961	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120962	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. Well, here's to what you said we had changes in 2010, 2013 to make it harder, to fail. He was Minister Arsen Bauk then, the minister of the administration, and they had their chance and the great majority in the assembly, although they failed to change the constitution, they tried, but because they went wrong, we know why constitutional changes were going on, because they didn't hand out those two who were eventually convicted, and they didn't want this question that they're imposing on us today in 2010, or in 2013, they want to give him no, that we're dealing with it now because they don't have other topics except for them, and that's what's the condition for them to do something... I invite them to their, in the role of the SDP sometimes and today to come to know who they are and what they are, are they still ready to be a junior partner to some parties like the Center, we can! etc. or one serious party that understands the problem that needs to be solved without blackmail, if we can solve it together, if we don't see how it ends. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120963	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120964	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Boris, today's opposition insists that the first article of the constitution is being violated, which says that the government comes from the people, but cannot read the next sentence as well in the first article of the constitution where it clearly states, the people exercise power by choosing their representatives, so by direct decision. Why do I say that? Because the Venice Commission, which has also been mentioned many times today, but incorrectly quoted, is just saying that the referendum is a good institute, but it must not be used to disabling representative democracy, and it seems to me that it was precisely at the heart of many debates today by the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120965	So is my colleague Stier, so is my colleague Stier, and that's why I'm surprised at this debate of theirs today and the argument that they managed to confuse between each other. I will now read to you the 2014 statement by Sandra Bencic, the initiative was then meant to enter the constitution of the definition of marriage, it was then in the motion against and said, the first thing I expect is to regulate the area of the referendum that can never happen again that 1/5 citizens can change the constitution. You're listening to their debates today, are you listening? Let's compare this today and what used to be, that they were against although watchful then came a million 960 thousand people, a million 432 thousand voted to enter marriage as a definition of the constitution, and just a little, a million and 300, excuse me, and 650 thousand was against, 66 and 33%. Who says these quotas are made up, quotas and do not ensure representativeness, let's say, after the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120966	Time. The next replica honours Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120967	Thank you, Vice President. In order for the constitution to change to HS, or this procedure to be legal, two-thirds of MPs are required. If the referendum is organised, it is enough to get 5 voters out, 10 thousand, 500 thousand so that the majority of those who went out if they supported the referendum will be legal. It's my impression that the biggest debate here is about this quorum of support that you mentioned that it wasn't accidentally determined this way. The fact is that most of us here agree that this quorum of support should be, but that we still need to talk about numbers and that they need to be reasonable, so I'm curious that now we're in the first reading, is there any corrections and what made these calculations happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120968	Thank you. Now I'm going to get a little bit right because I mispronounced earlier, so what I said was a referendum on joining the EU, then a million and 960 thousand of our citizens voted, a million and 300 thousand were approximately for, and 650 thousand against. The marriage referendum came up with a million and 432 thousand citizens, of which 950 thousand for and 481 thousand against, so there's about one million that should be these 25% that we're offering, let's say in these talks, let's say in this proposal, so we might be able to come up with some numbers in terms of what the voter list is, in the census, and so in many of the bases that could suggest what 25% of the things we don't need, a third of what we listed as organic laws, etc. or the 50% above when we talk about association, and I think we can talk about it, is it a million, is it something like we said 250 grand in the signature, so there's no question about how many voters there are, how many voters there are, etc., so we want to, but give us a hand to solve it, but don't go into 100 other spaces now, so let's solve these 100 other things, so we won't do nothing, none.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120969	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120970	Comrade Boric, you said the arguments exactly when you were here at the Bridge. The Constitutional Court, not a single referendum, I really don't know if you've been listening to your HDZ colleagues, so you've said our arguments here about the Constitutional Court. that all the referendum initiatives were rejected except that which was in the definition of marriage, so we are talking about the constitutional court of the tribunal being abolished, not strengthened. [[Clip intrusion: No]] Thank you very much for this speech. I don't know if you've come to the Bridge maybe with Nicole Grumo, you often mention him, is he, I don't know, is he at the club? Ask yourselves at HDZ, but every honor in this speech, behold, I am indeed, this is a historical speech, all the arguments that we make to the Constitutional Court that the tribunal has been abolished, you have basically said that the tribunal abolished it and that the Constitutional Court does not recognise the signatures enough and that it deletes the referendum. And that's very important. And once again at the end of the question, no matter how you manage to drag this part of the opposition into your network, it's not clear to me if you can explain it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120971	A fellow Bull. I don't know how to explain it. Sometimes it doesn't matter who's talking. It's how that listener understood it. If you listened well to me, and I believe it is, that Nikola did not tell you what you must say now that you have heard me explain why I explained the story of why the former Constitutional Court was as good as Grmoja said, at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and why this is not good at this time because they are doing according to the law and what is their duty and I have given an accurate review of what the initiatives have fallen and why the Constitutional Court has fallen and why the decisions have been made. I'm not going to talk here about a colleague named Bauk who made up reasons and numbers all over the place, so he did all the handball and ran away from everyone, and you didn't ask yourself a question, and why didn't they send this question that went to the Constitutional Court referendum, do you think? Because he'd been through the Constitutional Court, and that's what your colleague Bauk knew.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120972	Next replica, the esteemed Jure Bourkan. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120973	Comrade Boric,... Dear fellow Minister Boris, here I am somehow under the impression that all of us here should work for the first time under number 1, means for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the state itself, and that behind us and the democracy of our country and the Constitution must remain tighter and safer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And to give the right to the Croatian people greater, at least than we have so far. With these changes and additions, the amendments to the Constitution, what are we doing? We allow the Croatian people, the initiatives to make it easier for a smaller number of signatures to reach the referendum, but we also assure the Croatian people that this referendum issue, which will be the question of the right of the people to want most of their votes, and not now that the minority can reach a referendum and impose their response to the change of the Constitution in the majority. Who do you think might be against it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120974	Thank you, Comrade Brkan. Very much, as I understood the first reading of the law and these constitutional changes i.e. In several days of less signatures, we can check your question at the Constitutional Court that we know what's being signed and that we don't go into the story just by politicizing the same as some did, so that on what they say, we wanted to grow a few percentage points, so let's say it more than once, they didn't care about Covid's certificates and Stogeocracy and what I know what they were saying. So they simply wanted to politicize and deal with it be, but it's not forbidden in democracy. And in the end, you have the right to change the question, one more time if they tell you it's not good, change it, do it right, collect it and hold a referendum. They're against it. Why? Because now the lefts are blackmailing her. Those who shouldn't be doing this because they've managed or found themselves in a place where they can't handle themselves and are trying to push another topic as a reason not to be about what we want to solve, nothing else is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120975	Time. The next replica, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120976	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. Here today we could hear that actually the colleagues from the Bridge have several times denied themselves. So first, they said that this proposal was put ad hoc on the agenda, that it was hidden, that no one knew about it, and then later they said, the debates last week organised a round table in HS on that subject, and they didn't know anything. Secondly, they said they knew nothing, and today counterpart Rasdic says that with the indignity their club refused to participate at all in the discussion of amendments to the Constitution and the views and areas of the referendum, so of course you did not know if you could not participate as any constructive opposition that participated. And the third thing, they cried, they cried here for months as in winter, they collected 400 thousand signatures in the winter, and now as this suggests they're fixed for 250 grand, they're against it. And the 4th thing that's very interesting, the only thing that mentions the street and civil disobedience here today is the bridge, and recently said by a president from a hill. Very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120977	Well, look, fellow Habib, here. May I? Oh, I'm looking at what's going on here and I'm really surprised, here. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] The gentleman was somewhere I don't know, for a few days he was resting somewhere under a mandarin, a fig tree, which I know where he was, he came in last night, I'm looking here at Anta and Marina, every day they're here fighting for those things, but he came to save the people. That surprised me last night and that media coup about how we're gonna stop this one here today, I don't know if Bozo's still resting, maybe he's not, but what's important? 360 grand was a problem, and they're pointing it out. Now we're giving 250. I cited initiatives with 600 grand, 700. I don't see a problem in the number of signatures. That's what we do in 15 days, we give through the law and 30 days to collect. So everything's clear as day. What are they trying to stop? Their political tools that would make citizens this populist, little by little at some time reach them, sign them, put them in them and in their laps, and then lead them to great debates here. And the goal is just for them to profit politically, there's nothing for the citizens. This is good, I'll support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120978	Next individually... Next.../incomprehensible/...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next is an individual debate, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120979	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to approach the amendments to the Constitution in the way the ruling coalition did and part of the opposition deputies is so embarrassing that it is difficult to pass in the recent European history. To include this item on Monday on the agenda so that at the end of the session the vote cannot be called only by rape of democracy, this action can be called a process by the method of thief in the dark night. The constitution as a fundamental state document does not change overnight, but in every decent, civilised democracy, a broad social debate is encouraged with the intention of reaching a broad consensus on the basic document. But when your intentions are dishonest and you want to maintain an unfair and illegal state by deception and fraud, then the way to change the Constitution is manipulative, Seksovski, Plenkovićevski, Pupovcevski, mullatory. Today, the state of Croatia is led by people such as the President of the Constitutional Court of Miroslav Šeparovic who cannot pass any tax control, which the government is anti-constitutional and does not answer my parliamentary questions what the same constitution obliges. And how is that possible? A few days ago, a RTL journalist visiting on N1 TV said that the minister was very capable of leaving Maric, that Agrokor's affairs and the last affair of privileged summers had happened long ago and that there would have been something in there long ago. At first you think a man's joking, but then you realize he means it. Ladies and gentlemen in Agrokor everything came out but only because of the government's influence on the DORH, nothing has been processed. Political media falanga tells Croatian citizens you are not Austrians or English that you have the right to apply the law. The constitution stipulates that the DORH must work according to the law, but if the DORH were to work under the law, it would never become a minister. This initiative was launched by MPs such as MP Barisic, who reactivated the mandate several days after the European Prosecutor's Office brought charges against him. Barisic is accused of entering the area of responsibility of the European Prosecutor's Office, and the European Prosecutor's Office sees evidence as any normal person. I'm asking a question in this assembly, how many of you from HDZ and SDP would be charged with doing your job under the law? Would your HDZ chief Branko Bacic be prosecuted for those black bags and for his participation in the corruption of Sanader's administration? Would Peja Grbin, Arsen Bauk, Hajdash Doncic be representatives in this assembly? Would your Milorad Pupovac, after the Tesla Bank affair, be a representative? Ladies and gentlemen, the inequality of citizens before the law and universal savage corruption have a cause in disrespecting the Constitution and the open haughtiness of leading public officials who no longer bother to hide the discrepancies of their assets and incomes. And they don't even try to hide the general abuse anymore. Croatia is witnessing rough manipulation such as in the event of the government's president's involvement in suspected PPD affairs, which in several years became the second transport company in the country. A few days ago, the head of the PPD found an undeclared half-million-euro necklace at Zagreb airport. And all these irregularities go through without any consequences. The only ones who suffer the consequences are Croatian citizens who are forced to finance an overall thieving. This attempt to deprive Croatian citizens of the right to the most elementary democratic tools also proves that the ruling structures in Croatia have completely lost the compass and that the end of these destructive, unfair and corrupt structures is near.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120980	We have one replica, dear Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120981	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Kristo, this was all just not too much about the Constitution but about all those involved in decision-making in the Republic of Croatia. I would just remind you that all the affairs that were caused by the newspaper inscriptions the State's Attorney's Office has prosecuted or investigated. In many such inscriptions, it happened that after 11 years, a liberating verdict like it was for Roncevic, as it was for Kirin. There are also those charges that are just as powerful as Sanader's. There are those for SDP officials such as the head of the IRS, for the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. When you already wanted to weigh whether the State's Attorney's office works or doesn't do its job well, then you need to look at all the elements and all the events that have been because we are Many times bitter against him because of war trials [[Intruder: Time.]] war crimes or not processing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120982	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120983	My debate has to do with both the Constitution and the amendments to the Constitution, especially with the Constitutional Court, because in Croatia today, the Croatian Constitution is not respected by your ruling structures, and today we have everything that I have cited through examples, and when you tell me that what I am saying may not be justified or factual, let those who are called sue me first. Not only don't I get sued, there's no denial. And second of all, you're talking to me about court proceedings in Croatia, so the DORH told Zhaoac that there was nothing controversial about it. Mrs. Gristle is not Mrs. 10% but Mrs. 300%, and when the law comes, normal treatment of evidence happens, sanctions occur. Please think carefully about what you are saying and please cover your ears because you are the cause of today's problems with Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120984	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120985	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I already said in one line today, and now I'm going to do it again. If this orderly media haranga is the price to finally start talking about changes to the Constitution and if it will be the price to finally get to the consensus to come up with provisions that will allow the People's Referendum to be implemented, then I will agree to it once again and I will sign it again. So I'm saying that on my own behalf, I'm not saying it on behalf of those other nine colleagues from my club who signed it. Those stories we heard here today, they were all talking about the same problem, we can't hold a referendum. What we're saying out of the question, what we're saying in clubs, what we're saying in a bar, in a restaurant, that's not the solution. We need to open a dialogue, we need to open a polylogue, and without that, we won't get a solution. If this will result in all of us sitting at one table together, listening to all the proposals and then voting on these proposals, and then having the people's referendums, I think we've achieved a lot. The first step we have taken, we are all talking about the same problem, we are all talking about changes to the Constitution, we have mentioned all of them, and there was only one part of the change, and there was a colleague who mentioned the other, and this is the right to a choice that we will obviously discuss here in the fall, and I think it will probably be in the final and some kind of joint debate, and what we will see. Let's not forget the magic number is 101, one, zero, one, unless there are 101 hands in the air, unless 101 green dots on the screen have no changes, therefore without consensus there is no change. And that is why we need to talk if we are to achieve that the people can finally come to the referendum. To finally our friends, our neighbors can come up for a referendum and say what their opinion is and then that the opinion is included in some law, that something is happening on this basis, they're making some decisions, and it's not going without it. So I think we made a good first step. I think we will see soon after the discussion whether the initiatives of the ruling without which it cannot happen, without which it cannot vote whether they are really positive, whether they will allow us, together with them, to make these decisions about amendments to the law, or whether we will succeed afterwards, to do what we have mentioned several times, and that is that they too change their opinion to give in and that a really referendum can be implemented in a much easier way. The first step is taken, the number of signatures that are collected is no more than 380,000 but 250, we have more observations, we have observations on how many votes should be collected in the referendum, we have observations on how the Constitutional Court should react. I think it's up to us to communicate it clearly and loudly at our meetings, to communicate it at club management meetings, to communicate it in clubs, to make joint conclusions with which we're going to meet together, and then to agree on what is needed to finally tell our friends, neighbors, citizens, citizens, people you'll be able to come up with a referendum, you'll be able to express your opinion. Not like Switzerland, but you'll be able to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120986	Thank you, too. Mrs. Katarina Peovic has her own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120987	Good afternoon, everyone. Of course, we will look at the changes proposed by HDZ, but we cannot ignore the fact that not only did the proposed progressive opposition for the change in the Constitution in Article 63, by adding that a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth and that the state should ensure conditions, the preconditions for this right, it may not have to be meant but in the environment and the atmosphere of pluralism in which the HDZ called for talks, we discussed what someone would want to put into the Constitution and it would be possible to expect, why not put all the proposals and then we are now going into discussion about it, but if it is not already really unclear why our proposal has a completely disqualifying relationship with him in relation to this proposal. So we've collected signatures and we're changing the Constitution at the same time we've filed it somewhere, which is why it's not included in the agenda. The arguments we heard were, not valid and colleague Maric asked the same question to be answered and she answered it already in the Constitution no, and she asked questions here so I wanted to replicate so I think because of this whole circus here in the assembly lost the right of replica, they answered it already in the Constitution. And she asked the question I mean where is it in the Constitution no, and HDZ answers that in the Constitution in Article 35 is, the 35th article that has meaning relating to the protection of personal and family life, the right to privacy is. But Article 35 cannot be protected in any way means the right to abortion, and that is not only so that you can interpret this Article 35 in a way that protects whose personality, whose family life, does this mean I'm going to give you a plastic example, I think if a woman pregnant man has the right to ask her to give birth, I mean protecting family life on his part, I think, and we can interpret it that way, we can interpret the constitution in a number of ways, but let's say this is one of the most malignant that we could get out of this article. 35., but another argument why it can't possibly be a substitution means for what we want to do is that this article was already in the constitution, and this article was thrown out of the Constitution in 1990, and it needs to be repeated over and over again, it's not about something new. A colleague Ivo Stier asked a question or argued that we are looking for democracy in some way where it is not in the sense that it is not embedded in European constitutions, the right to abortion is not embedded in other European constitutions, constitutions, pardons. That's true, but France is now going to change the constitution to introduce exactly that right, so the French majority taught by the experience of America is going to change the constitution with this progressive law that needs to be entered into the Constitution. We can only argue that it was extremely progressive for that time when it was introduced into the Constitution in 1974, indeed not the other constitutions had it at that time, but now it is seen, so because these rights were elected somewhere just before 50. And Roo versus Wade was brought about 50 years ago. And now this right is being disputed, that it is the rights that were indeed at the time when they were enrolled were progressive. But there's one question here, too, so could we actually get to the American script? The same should be fair and said that the Constitutional Judges choose two-thirds of the majority in the assembly and that we will be in 2024. to choose constitutional judges, 10 out of 13, and somewhere in that formula, there are half of them nominally left, half right, and it is hard to believe that such a turn can happen unlike the US Supreme Court who had a second situation. And I'll also point out, that the coup is coming, let's be honest, and because of the proverbially lazy democratic policy that they simply let Trump's administration replace the meaning of these constitutional judges, he has a more traditional and right-handed view and a known case that an American democratic means the constitutional judge didn't want to retire, but kept her place to die and that one vote was crucial in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120988	Thank you. Two replicas, Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120989	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peović, I do not know what is progressive in your proposal, your proposal is against the law, anti-constitutional and vice versa because the basic human right is the right to life, and you are now in favour of something that is contrary. The verified biological truth is that human life begins with a conception that is the beginning of a new completely unique human organism, a unique genome, and the moment it destroys the universe, it's gone without that genome, it'll never happen again. I'd like you to try to understand that because you often boast about your titles and scientific knowledge here, you should know that. That's why I think, because of your proposals that are wrong, harmful and deeply endanger human dignity that the quorum of support makes sense so that such provisions don't enter the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120990	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic, answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120991	We'll have a quorum, so I don't know if you're aware that even with all these suggestions to fit me in on the referendum we have a quorum, so over 70% of people in Croatia think that a woman has the right to choose, over 80% of people are against the ban on abortion, so much for democracy. As far as scientific facts are concerned, I don't know if you fellow Petyr are aware of what you said here is borderline on what's absurd, what's really at the edge of science when you say that an unborn child has dignity, means the dignity of an unborn child doesn't exist, I don't know if you're aware of it, means a mature adult must have autonomy over his body and have no right that can be more than that woman's right to autonomy from birth alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120992	Thank you, ma'am. Peovic, thank you. That's two different approaches. We'd talk about it two years ago. here if you should and you know what my approach is, but everyone has their own approach, so this one, too, so, about science this everyone has scientific, has scientific facts on all sides, let's be tolerant and let's say I disagree, etc. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120993	Dear MPs today we have heard here in our debates really every debate since reading some reports that have been, which are... on the heart or on the hamster, through some referendums which were also... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the hamster, some scientific papers, everything here was mentioned today, but among other things it was mentioned several times and that the constitution is of course not ideal and that we have more topics to discuss. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that we should open these topics, three topics that are important to us, and that is the impact of the Constitutional Court on the implementation of the referendum, the other are the quotas that need to be discussed and the third of course, all of these topics that need to be discussed in order to ensure that we are all happy and satisfied afterwards. We won't be able to change all the topics or we won't be able to change everything that needs to be changed to the constitution, but what's most important is to make decisions together, here we're going to change three areas or three parts or five, I don't know how long it takes for everyone to be happy and satisfied after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120994	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120995	Thank you. I, in my previous debate, referred to this as being the influence of the Constitutional Court, the constitutionality of the referendum issue, which is now being put on this proposal, is wrong for me because the role of the Constitutional Court should be advisory and affirmative in the sense that if they give their proposal to rephrase the constitutional issue then the initiative should have the opportunity with this reformed question to implement the referendum, so set up means that you have two, two options before the collection and after the collection leaves room for manipulation to actually be seen whether the signed are going with the blocking of the initiative. As far as the quorum is concerned, the quorum should be meant not to be a good thing that one man can go to the referendum and that the referendum passes, but 1/3 means the voter's registered for the constitutional referendum is too much. That's definitely too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120996	Thank you very much, Mrs. Peovic, you have no more replicas. Mr. Brumnic now has his own, his own exposure. Here you go. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120997	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and the first question that needs to be asked here is why the HDZ is now starting to open this issue in this way. Very often when HDZ started to open something, then it wants to close it in a way that doesn't suit others. And as HDZ led today's debate, it would be concluded that he does not really want to resolve this issue but rather wants to transfer responsibility to others if they did not agree to vote only on what corresponds to HDZ. But the question you need to ask yourself is what is the Constitution? At one point Bulj said above the Constitution is only God, I did not want to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because he would have received a reminder, but above the Constitution is not only God, there is something above the Constitution, and that is the people who live by this Constitution and this Constitution is the basic document according to which someone in a field has arranged their relations. So that's what we're practically all agreeing to, that we want to live by these rules. And we want to live by those rules because we want to live in an orderly society. When you look at the societies that are arranged, when you look at the societies that have the most liberal man you would tell the referendum, and one of them is Switzerland, then probably all of us here, and all those who look at us would like to live in that Switzerland, not in one Croatia currently run by HDZ in a way that practically disowns everyone else's right to have a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120998	But there is no sea in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u120999	Switzerland has no sea, but they come very easily to our seas, and we find it very difficult to reach their lakes while we are at it... And now the worst of all those who have received the mandate is in fact fear of making decisions, of opening up a question that needs to be opened in society and what I said today, fear of responsibility. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] HDZ is afraid of the people who practically chose it here, HDZ has a problem with, I don't know what you don't understand, replicate and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121000	Please, please, let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121001	So, as for the topic you've opened, which you've opened in me in a very unfair way, the subject of the Constitution where you've limited what can be discussed when you change the Constitution. As far as the referendum is concerned, as you suggested, much of it is practically impossible to implement. It is not a 250, 350 issue at all, or as Boric said, there were 600,000 signatures, in a society where the voter lists are not arranged, and it is known to whom it corresponds why they are not arranged, it is completely irrelevant in which way you will collect the signatures. What you're asking for is for signatures to be collected in exactly certain places that will be determined in units of local self-government leaders, which will determine to be collected in front of HDZ buildings, please. When you collect signatures to go to the polls, then you can collect them by house, by friends, wherever you want. If you're collecting for this, you don't have that right. As for the number of voters that went out, I don't know why no one opened that question, put in an online vote, we solved all the problems. Then I believe that 70, 80 and more per cent of the population of the Republic of Croatia will be evident on every referendum issue to be asked. Allow it, there's a reason you don't want to allow it. So this is how the amendment of the Constitution is set regardless of what the amendment of the Constitution needs to talk about and should in some way be set in motion to change the Constitution is with this HDZ I think completely insane. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121002	Now we have a little more time because I interrupted you before. And now it's Mr. Nikola Grumoy's turn, while he collects the wire, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121003	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have one narrative of the ruling that they want to arrange the referendum, and in fact they want to make it difficult. The reduction of the signature does not mean much more specifically if it means the collection of signatures before you go into the constitutional court action and says you can't, that question is unconstitutional. And today is actually for the benefit of what the Most Club says the best debate had by a colleague Boric. I said, I told my colleague Bulu that we must urgently bring him this access card to meet it because actually the man here, citing the constitutional court's conduct, concluded that no referendum had passed the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, except for the referendum on marriage, but that assessment was not even requested. So every referendum of Croatian independence has fallen in the Constitutional Court. This tells us that no referendum, if asked, will be held by the Constitutional Court. And why is this system that we had and in which it was almost impossible to reach the referendum, here we have collected the signatures, but we have not reached the epilogue, we have not reached the referendum? Why, though, is it better than what the ruling now propose, and what will support, it seems, fellow opposition colleagues? Because the citizens could express their position. The monetization of the highway, 67 is too much, what else is it, something about the outsourcing, right? It all forced it when the signatures were collected, it all forced the ruling, whatever anyone thought you should monetize the highways, should have outsourced the services or not, but the people told their position to the signatures. It all forced the ruling to give up their decisions even though the referendum had never happened. Just as our 400 thousand signatures were brought down by the Constitutional Court in a funny way, so the explanation was that people didn't know what they were signing, but those 40,000 signatures stand over the head of Boris. And all the time, he's always pounding it on his head. Both him and Plenkovic and the others are aware that they must not introduce stricter measures because protests will take place on the street. They know it, Boric is aware of it, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has done for him. That's what this is about. If we accept these HDZ amendments to the Constitution, it won't be possible anymore either because tomorrow you will start a referendum against HDZ and then the Constitutional Court will say immediately, and the story is over. It's a finished story, no signings. There's no signing at the Parliament. There is no success against the government because every referendum is a referendum against the government. And I can't believe that you're hooked on that story and you've given some kind of two ridiculous amendments, colleague Bauk, and if they accept those two amendments, you'll vote for these changes. HDZ amendments to the Constitution. And it's not this one, this story that you're telling is deeply explained about what everything in the Constitution should change, it's not a topic. The theme is what HDZ and those who have signed proposed, these amendments to the Constitution. And where does this story say that changes to the Constitution need to start some kind of process here, that you should vote for HDZ amendments to the Constitution? Well, the amendment to the Constitution will happen when a consensus is reached in the Assembly and as you have discussed with HDZ all these months, so will Friday, if these HDZ changes do not pass, you will also be able to discuss. As long as this mandate lasts, it takes the opportunity for you to discuss it with HDZ. No one is defending you or knowing when you're meeting, what you're talking about, and what's the subject of your conversations. So, again, I call you, don't, all the MPs of the opposition, and the Social Democrats, those who have signed, the SDP, don't assist HDZ on Friday in killing the referendum, I call on all unions, all associations, all those who have ever launched any referendum and who believe that citizens have the right to a referendum statement, I call on them to make an announcement on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121004	You, too. Mr. Bull will be replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121005	Thank you very much. First of all, this first part that Boric had the best debate, I agree, through the replica, all the arguments presented by us to the Constitutional Court, literally, is that he did not say the final sentence which often repeated, through two rickets to abolish the Constitutional Court. So he absolutely supported all of our arguments, that's here, one finding. And the second is very important, too, how did Boris and the team Branko Bačić succeed, how did they get the opposition into this mill? It's very specific how they managed to get on thin ice and now the colleagues from the opposition are scrambling, they don't know how to get out. These are two very important things and a third thing, as my colleagues Deur and Djakic say, Croatian defenders support that constitutional basic law, the right to refer because the Constitution is the only God above the Constitution, and these are fundamental human rights, i.e.. Basic basic law on a referendum, on direct democracy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's off. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121006	Mr. Bull, thank you. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121007	Injury 239, insult of counsel. Mr. Bull. What doesn't make sense to you It's clear to me. [[Intruder: To you, to you.]] You are probably one day away from Rasdic, from Milanovic you get points each in your own way, you change a little, you replace Petrov and Grmoj, you put some Rasdic on. HDZ is stable... and [[Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121008	It was a replica. It's a warning. Mr. Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121009	Thank you very much. My colleague Deur was injured by an officer. 238 because this is simply an insult, this is a humiliation of MPs, a humiliation. Yeah, you listed those people who... I don't know who, Milanovica, Rasudiæa, but at least you forgot the Chetnik Vukic you bowed to, which you brought up, the Croatian army lined him up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You as a counsellor then for defenders. Is that advice from Pupović when he was in Backo Palanca for a meeting with Chetnik Vukic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121010	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here, you said what you had. Now I'm gonna say what I got. This is the third violation of the Rules of Procedure by taking away the word on this item of the agenda. Let's not, please, if I took my word. What? ... For history? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Here you go. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Please, I have no right to take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121011	Bulj, you co-ordinate all the time with people like Vukić by various counties, co-ordinate in your own way, and you don't know who you're collating with from Sibenik County, this down in Split what you're doing is better if you and Vukić were seeing each other for coffee because you would give better advice and drown you than you do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121012	Thank you very much, there was a replica going opposition, going sorry Go reminder, please no longer have the right [[Intruder: Replication response.]] No, don't wait, you have, but now we're talking about violations of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: The answer to the replica I have.]] And you're still here and you have the right to respond to the replica. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121013	Kola Bulj does not need a Croatian defender who fell very low and who was true in worshiping this Alexander Vukic and receiving him at Pantovčak, should not remind him of these shameful episodes in his political career, but what he should certainly do should, therefore, support his colleague Boric in what he said about the Constitutional Court, but we will still criticise him because he has made an immoral offer here to his colleague Bencic, whom he said if he supported these constitutional amendments so as not to hold a referendum on marriage, so that we can see that Boric is not only a great critic of the Constitutional Court, but he is sorry that the referendum on marriage took place and therefore offered his colleague Bencic this option to support these amendments so that he no longer would have such referendums happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121014	Thank you very much, no more replicas, but Mr. Deur has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121015	In 239, Mr. Grumoja talked about you for an hour on the show about your patriotism, your crime, your status, what you did in your Metkovic, so at the end of what you're doing, you wouldn't be in your election unit running away to another if you had the courage. And your courage, you were here in front of the Prime Minister running like, what a little girl and now you're trying a very, very dishonest way and those you mention have a lot more honor than your herds you represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121016	Thank you very much, I always warn you when the third replica is, I warn everyone the third replica, the reminder sorry, well, excuse me, excuse me, just let me speak what, listen I am, I am very calm, and I will say the following. That's the third, that's the third warning with the taking of words, unfortunately, as it was with Mr. Bulja as well. Mr. Boric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121017	Thank you very much. Article 238, what can I say is demeaning, insulting Mr. Deur's honorary Croatian defender by Mr. Grumoja, nothing challenged. A man who will testify that one day on that Wikipedia he will write under the definition of a lie right next to it will stand for Nikola Grmoi. It'll simply be your destiny, and what you're doing in the assembly to be visible, to create those videos of yours, and it was important to be below the level of honor of a man who wants to do something in this country tomorrow. to the benefit of the citizens. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121018	It was a replica. It's a warning. Mrs. Petyr, sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121019	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think that you should have responded to what your colleague Grumoja said because it is indeed an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, where he insulted his colleague Deura by addressing him directly as a Croatian defender and saying that as a Croatian defender, he fell low because he supported this HDZ initiative to amend the Constitution. I think it's inadmissible and that you should have reacted and protected the dignity of fellow Deura who unlike many who today sit here and enjoy democracy was in a trench in Vukovar and defended Croatian citizens and Croatian borders, Croatian cities. [[Thank you very much.]] You have to react to that, I insist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121020	Thank you, thank you, thank you. You have a warning. Thank you very much. ... You have a warning because, because, please, you have a warning because if I should react to any opinion that is expressed here whether or not anyone likes it or not in your replica, Mrs. Peović, etc., you have opposite, diametrically opposite ideas then, then I would just be giving a warning, and here I have to give a warning, forgive but I have to give a warning without any, that, nothing, nothing personal about it, but that's the case. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sir, Mr. Ante Kujunudzic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121021	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public at the very beginning, so to you, Mr. Deur, perhaps in the context of the Homeland War, I am not worthy to resolve even the disciplines, but I certainly thank you for the name of the herd in which you have placed a large majority of the righteous, good, honest, and among other things a large part of your comrades. Thank you for that. If I were to respond to your level, I might betray the values and education I have been raised to, but what I would like to say here to all of you if we had in mind and today's debate, and all the debates in at least these past two years, if we roll in mud with a pig, that's all a pig will enjoy it. That's why I'm gonna stop there. So as to the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, I don't enter into who signed what, I believe that every signature that's been put in place to be a proposing stems from a good will and a desire to finally not be a circus here, but that we finally go here and talk about things that we can agree on and things we can't agree on and we'll never agree on. However, the conversation never excludes co-loans, the conversation involves co-loans, including arguments. Here if it's gonna be a case or not, we'll see about that on Friday. An anecdote says that the Bratchani seem to me and the Soltans at some point made figs of the cannon, and the Bratcans were fighting, so they put on the cannon, it worked, it cracks and breaks them, and one of them stood up and said when it hit us like this, what it did to them, they actually turned the cannon on their side. Yeah. [[Attack Radin: Who pays dynamite from the two of them]] I'm afraid that all of this we have ahead of us, and it's about the referendum that the kind of figs are a cannon, and I'm afraid they're going to burst where they shouldn't. I am equally afraid, and given the constitutional court's decision so far, because if we are doing an analysis of all the referendums on what, citizens' initiatives, which was largely or in most cases discussed, the constitutional court and the non-compliance of the issues with the constitution, and all these issues were brought again by constitutional experts. So I'm afraid with this proposal, and having all this boredom from our short but rich, brave and heroic history in mind, I'm afraid the Constitutional Court will still be out of my class for as long as we name it and choose it the way we choose it. How to choose it differently I don't know, but what I'm applying in my life is when something doesn't work out, so I'm trying in a variety of other ways, and here we're not going to go to a metric and we're left with one serious problem, and we're left with a hypothetical problem whether the Constitutional Court and, in any future setting, this vote is going to be the one who's going to be in the middle, or when he's going to be asked the constitutionality of a particular question because if we're interested in what we often say here, and that's the people, then I don't see any reason why any of us are afraid of any of any of the questions that people that we'll always know about ourselves decided as he knew and so far, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121022	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121023	Thank you very much. Comrade Kujundzic, don't listen to Grumo lead you wrong, say those words about the pig, mud etc., he can do better, but sometimes he's happy when it happens, it's not this assembly that, we have a topic that we can discuss and you can discuss and do it neatly every day, he came last night... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121024	Let's move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121025	And I wanted to turn to the part where you said that we shouldn't forget the conversation when we were talking about this. The first to forget about this topic was just a bridge with what we definitely don't want to talk to you about anything, especially when you're talking about a referendum, admit it, means decided not and you don't deserve to talk to you and we accept it, but there are other people that you've been arguing here today for some of your interests, it's because of Mr. Grmoja and already 4 percentage points has reduced you in all the polls, given the exclusion it has and the policy it offers you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121026	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121027	Dear Mr. Boric, I agree with what my colleague Bulj has said that you are actually very close to Mosta's policy today and we are receiving you both arms and access is ready. As for my colleague Nikola Grumoja, I agreed with him in everything he was saying or disagreeing with, which is why I chose Nikola and this complete political structure of the Bridge is to work with them to disappear from the political scene, to return to my home, to live with my family and to do what I did with any other individual name and last name not generally who brought this country to the level that he brought it to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121028	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121029	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, about the part where you disrespect me that I should, for me, belittle it, that I should go into some bridge, that's one fullton without a coast, and there whoever walks in just knows he's gone. Never, never would have entered that party, and as I think of them, we said a few years ago when we threw them out of the window means that it never happens again that these people decide anything about the way they worked, the way they treated the government and everything they did, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121030	The second warning, it was a replica. Here you are, the same violation of Mr. Kujundzic's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121031	Is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238, otherwise I don't do it and I won't, I promise this won't, but I have to answer that. So, my colleague, Boric, in my life, I don't bother with someone I'm not afraid of, and I don't bother with someone who's cowardly in my life, and in your words, we are cowardly and what we are, and then we leave it to the Croatian people for ourselves, as far as we're concerned, we can tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121032	It was a replica, a warning. Mr. Djakic, now only replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121033	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Kujundzic, so you claim that this, these changes to the constitution that are like a fig tree cannon, you don't really want to present the truth that is clear, reducing the number of signatures to 250 thousand is certainly a big difference from previous opportunities. The assessment of the constitutionality of the issue that will be asked is a particularly good thing because we should not think later about collecting unimportant signatures, no matter what initiative it was, we have collected them many times and for, against the highways and this and that and we have become involved in everything. It seems to you today to ask whether it is possible to use a private company, for example, called "grizzly" for political corruption. And put that on the referendum. Imagine what that would be like to ask. When giving lessons to a colleague, Deura I would ask you to share the Bull who is [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]] He called me and him and we weren't here. [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121034	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121035	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. So fig cannon is a form of everything that we have in our Croatia. We've got him, suffocating a form of freedom, which we've seen. And I hypothetically asked what would happen if the figs burst to the side of whoever suggested this. Whether you're going to do it or not, I can't or I want to be the grandmother of Wang, we don't have any colleagues, Hidash Doncic. So what I was talking about is not definitely the number of signatures but the role of the Constitutional Court as we had in practice to see. So so far, in all the referendums that have, of course, been carried out in our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121036	Mr. Mazhar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Kujundzic. HDZ has learned as the state-of-the-art, strongest and strongest party to bear on its back and problems and make difficult decisions in difficult times. This has proved countless times, if we see the last year, two, three, about everything that has been done, and you said the level itself, that the level, the investment level that has never been, GDP is maximum in the EU, employment, etc., etc. I'm not talking about it right now, but the subject of what 92 MPs signed is because it goes in the interest of the citizens. So the truth will be seen through debate and in the end. Therefore, we do not need to abuse these speakers for individual politicians. What is visible, as we have created Croatia, as Ante Deur defended my Vukovar for which I am grateful because I do not have to defend him, he has his name, his work, he will defend himself, and those of you who speak of him say they have nothing to talk about, and it shows what the Bridge is, therefore, everything is seen, everything is known.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121038	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121039	Dear Comrade Mazhar, I responded to the remark, the herd's remark. It's a herd remark. What I'm going to say to you is, often we all have a citizens' interest in our mouths. Where we can very clearly, very relevantly see, feel, check. It is in the implementation of a specific referendum. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Croatia so far. Because we have a Constitutional Court that makes decisions, I don't know if you're listening to me at all, but I'm keeping my decency, actually I won't, and I won't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121040	Mr. Erik Fabianic has his own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121041	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am one of those who signed the Constitution's amendment initiative as well as the other 90 colleagues. I'd sign it regardless of who's proposing it because it's important content, not who's proposing it. We've been having a lot of discussion today about the metrics, but today it's not about the metrics, but it's about changing the provisions of the Constitution that will regulate the referendum. Some colleagues remained as shocked and surprised because it was not united with the termination of pregnancy as an initiative that I also signed. Why did I decide to sign both? Because trade in politics is not in my habitat, and also because I certainly suppose that the HDZ colleagues would not put it in their proposal for this amendment to the referendum, this constitutional provisions on the referendum. But as I suppose he will refuse the initiative, also, which I signed, therefore, and regarding the installation of the Constitution of pregnancy termination, therefore we will have to go to a referendum on termination of pregnancy. I'd like to be this surprised and put it in the Constitution, but it won't happen. But if we start a referendum, then it'd be better if it were quality-regulated, and the one from the Bridge because I live in real life and when I say something, I say it in a way that I might eventually be part of some parliamentary majority. I can't speak as an opposition something you wouldn't say if I were part of a parliamentary majority. I have an ugly habit, namely, I've been a part of 30 years, part of the parliamentary majority, and I can't say one thing when I'm in opposition and another time when I'm part of the parliamentary majority. You won't have that kind of hypocrisy from me. And I'll tell you why, and I'll say it again. Why? We can build into the Constitution an end to pregnancy and because of the European acquis, I repeat, we haven't solved the problem even when we win the referendum. We win a referendum, hypothetically come to power, right on the wings of that referendum, and when we have to go to St. The spirit or other hospital in Zagreb is resolved by the termination of pregnancy, only because it says in the Constitution we will not solve it. We're not going to solve it. EU court practice and, uh, I even went to read, uh, the bioethical tract because I even started believing what you're talking about. Therefore, we need a better constitution that needs to regulate the referendum. We can bid and tell how many signatures we need and what might be the quorum. The people are above this Parliament. But hypothetically speaking, if we have the total number of voters who went to the polls and chose this Assembly, then the quorum needs at least a million and 100. A million and a hundred. If it's some normal law, then regular law, which qualified majority do we need? Half way. And if there's a referendum where the Constitution changes, it takes two-thirds. Like us, it takes two-thirds. I'm talking about what logic is. I'm not talking about petty day-to-day politics. And if we write better than we have now, Fabianic will put his signature on it, whether someone likes it or not. And also, I am in favour of putting an end to the pregnancy of this constitution, but that's not going to solve the problem. But by changing this referendum constitution, we're still going to improve something, and we might be able to solve some problems. There is doubt, of course, about the Constitutional Court and other matters indisputable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121042	Thank you. Replic, replica. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121043	Your Honor. I thank you for seeing the good of these amendments to the Constitution that we propose. And also, I'd like to ask your comment. If we are doing this to ensure a good and quality framework how will the people and the rights of most people be shown in a referendum, then the true opinion of most people, who can be bothered by it? What's with all the resistance today? We've been here since 9:30, which gives this much resistance to something that gives power to the people to choose most of the votes what is best for this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121044	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121045	The suspicion is not in the regulation, doubting the parliamentary majority that implements it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121046	And you don't have a replica anymore. And now it's Madam. Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121047	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, according to my opening statement and some of the questions that came up before, I will refer, here, to my colleague, Boric, you, my colleague, said in 2014 that I said, yes, absolutely I said that and I am still absolutely standing in favour of a constitutional referendum, so for a change of constitution there must be some quorum of decision-making. Absolutely. Why? Because the amendments to the Constitution, either through the parliamentary two-thirds majority, or through a referendum, should generally be an exception, rather than a rule at the monthly level, because the Constitution is a fundamental act of a state and I am absolutely standing there. I also said for years that there must be a graduation of these conditions around the referendum, which means that the easiest thing to do is to be able to run it at the local level, then legislative, and then the Constitution, because it has to be a graduation because it's also some kind of graduation, a hierarchy of legal regulations. Such a graduation requires, there's also a parliamentary procedure, right? That's why we have laws that we make to the common majority, most of all of all MPs, decisions of most of all, we have decisions that we make to that qualified and we have decisions that we make to the two-thirds majority. Because that reflects the hierarchy of the legal regulations we're making. So, I agree that a certain quorum of decision-making in the constitutional referendum must exist and that it is not a normal situation that literally 50 people can come out and change the Constitution. This can't be a normal situation. However, there can be no normal situation that, as a quorum of decision-making, one third of all registered voters in the Republic of Croatia who voted in favour, means not those who went out, who voted in favour because, I told you in particular, it is over a million and 200 thousand people who have to vote in favour. When we compare it to that 2013 referendum, where Mr. Boric told you, that's where he voted 940 grand, sort of. What? 950 grand. Okay. It was 66%, and now it's usually your ratio, because of course they're more motivated to get out those who vote for what it was, if they put that ratio to future referendums that 66% of those who are 33%, that's what you get out of 50 percent of all voters in the Republic, and we don't have that kind of turnout in parliamentary elections, people. We had 45% on the last parliamentary floor. And now that you put into the power of the entire government, the state apparatus, all the political parties that run the campaign and come out at the end of 45% of the people, and on the other hand, you have one national referendum initiative that doesn't have that means, neither that camera nor that media, and you ask more of them than we all get together, when we're elected in parliamentary elections. Now that's not right and it's too much because it's going to disable the constitutional referendum, and he, his possibility, must exist and must exist effectively. Not on paper, but effectively, it must be done. The legislative referendum, in my opinion, is something quite different and I am not sure that we should have a quorum of decision-making as I am not even sure that we should have for the local level because these are things that change faster, they can change faster, and they are not carved, they are not etched into the foundations, in the basis of the Constitution, the Constitution is another thing, and I ask you to discuss and think about future changes in this way. And once again, I appeal to the quorum of decision-making, we cannot, as the Green-Left bloc Club, agree to not determine in advance what issues are in the sole jurisdiction of the government, the parliament and the president. It's that every time every question is decided over and over again by some majority of the Constitutional Court who has such an interpretation, for example, five years ago can change in five years. It's not acceptable to me either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121048	Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121049	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121050	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121051	Thank you, Vice President. When we talk about the 2013 referendum on the definition of marriage that entered the Constitution of the people, then the holders of the initiative had everything against themselves and the president of the state and the prime minister, the full set, the ruling majority, the media, all the others and managed to collect 950,000 signatures when it was known that most were sufficient. So, I, I think, I think the voting quorum when it comes to amending the Constitution must exist that it would not happen that we literally change the Constitution every year because I really don't know what this Constitution should add yet, I think we have achieved our strategic goals. But what I agree is that we need to think about the number for that voter quorum and that this number has to be reasonable and that's why we're talking here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121052	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121053	I thank my colleague Petyr, you are right, this was then allegedly against the referendum, but it was likely that they did not take the basic steps, which is that they did not refer this request to the Constitutional Court's assessment, you know that but the Constitutional Court brought that assessment according to its so-called so-called. General law enforcement. But there's another thing, even if they were, you had those actors against you, they had the strongest on them, and it was the church. And when you have this church to collect and help you collect signatures and secure votes, then it's a completely different situation that we've seen in the outcome of that referendum, but then we're not talking about editing today. Yes, I think we need to be able to agree to reduce the quorum of the decision. And another thing, that maybe we should also consider that it is not in percentage but to fix the number as well as fix the absolute number for the number of signatures needed for the launch of the national referendum initiative at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121054	Thank you, no more replicas, and now we're moving on to the final points of view. The first is Mr. Damir Habian in front of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121055	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here today we were actually to discuss whether we would approach amendments to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Law or not, but 95% of the time we were discussing something that wasn't really the subject of today's debate, but well, it's not even the first time. Two months or more ago, we discussed the proposal of the Law on Referendum, and most agreed that it was necessary to regulate this legal area concerning the referendum, and in doing so we agreed on the opposition, and on that trail it was actually moving in that direction, and this is the first step that we have to take if we really want to regulate this legal area of the referendum. And I think it is good here to mention once again that there is this part of a constructive opposition that has recognised it and which has joined and also signed this initiative, that is, this proposal, so 92 MPs and MPs have signed the same. However, there is still this small part of the opposition that has again shown one, one hypocrite today, so who here claims that they were not familiar with the launch of this initiative, to launch this proposal. At the same time last week in this assembly, they organised a stand and round table on the subject, so around the referendum. The other thing they didn't know was that this was being debated, no wonder when their representative from the MOST Club said here that with an indignity, so I quote with indignity they refused to participate in the talks on amendments to the Constitution and constitutional law. This reminds us of when they refused to discuss the coronary crisis and later later called the prime minister, after which they also went out, went out with some of their own. They did not know about these amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, and yesterday they were chasing a car towards Zagreb to save the people from the wicked HDZ. They also cried and cried here for months as it was difficult in the winter to collect nearly 400,000 signatures according to the current referendum law, but today when we propose to talk about 250, so a fixed number of 250,000 signatures needed to change, to launch a referendum, is no longer appropriate for them today. So once again, I'm glad that this small part of the opposition has shown one hypocrisy and that it has denied itself today on several occasions. They didn't get a good deal in the club, obviously. The second thing, there were a lot of words about the Constitutional Court and I think on several occasions here it was actually wrong to set that the Constitutional Court is part of the judicial authority. Therefore, the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial authority, the Constitutional Court is the fourth pillar of power, with legislative, executive and judicial authority, the Constitutional Court is the fourth pillar of power. I don't think anyone can deny that there are professional people in it. I also ask the question at this point and according to the current Law on Referendum, it is the Constitutional Court that assesses the permission and constitutionality of a particular referendum issue, which is also the case if such a proposal passes so that the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law will do so now, but rather rather than starting with the collection of signatures which are ultimately not bad, which is also the goal of reducing both costs and energy, but also all that passion that is sometimes put into it. And the question arises which body would be if it wasn't the Constitutional Court to decide on constitutionality and permission of the issue. It was about the Venice Commission, so just a couple, a couple of things to touch about it. Therefore, it was mentioned here by counterpart Rasudiæ Article 7a, but avoided Article 7b. a recommendation from the Venice Commission. They also avoided when it came to the recommendations of the Venice Commission which said it was necessary to mention in issues falling within constitutional categories that there was a quorum of decision-making, and also when it came to the recommendations of the Venice Commission that it was said that referendums could not be held if the text of a proposal requested for a referendum was referred to a question which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of parliament. Something similar to the formulation that stands in this proposal which is now the subject of these amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Therefore, this is only the first step, follows us also before the committee if this is adopted by the ordinary majority in the Croatian Parliament, so the establishment of the draft before the Committee follows the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Finally, what counterpart Bosnjakovic said on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, of course we will support this motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121056	Mrs. Sandra Bencic will represent the final views of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121057	I thank the chairman. Here for the final perhaps to recapitulate what is actually the basis of this whole process, and this process of amending the Constitution takes place in three steps. The first step is the decision to join the amendments to the Constitution, the second step is the decision on the draft amendments to the Constitution, and the third step is the decision on the amendment of the Constitution. The first and second steps, the accession to change and the draft changes are voted on by most of all representatives, which means most of all MPs. While the third step is therefore the change of the Constitution itself votes 2/3 to most of all MPs. We expect that, given that you have been working to supplement the name of this point that we are discussing today, except that in the beginning the accession of the amendments to the accession decisions you have complemented by calling for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitution and the draft amendments to the Constitution, however, I hope that you are aware that these must be two separate issues in the vote and that these issues cannot be voted on as one item because it would really be contrary to what the Constitution says. These are separate items of Constitution 1, 2, 3 and so must be decided. For each one it's prescribed specifically for most of them. There can't be one decision. I understand why you would go to it, but it's possible for you, I mean it can really collapse and don't do it because you're going to contaminate the process. And in order for the process to be good, what's necessary? Most, the vast majority agree that we should go to the amendments to the Constitution, but not any changes to the Constitution. The vast majority will also agree that the number of signatures needed to launch the People's Initiative of the referendum should be reduced because indeed 10% of voters are now too difficult for people's initiatives. It's good to cut to a number and it's good to have a fixed number. We disagree on everything else, and this should be a process in which steps 2, step 3 is debated. If you speed it up, if you speed it up, you won't get any quality changes or eventually voted changes. However, we who agree on the need to amend the Constitution, so that it is necessary to approach the amendments to the Constitution, have clearly said that when the Constitution opens, we expect that those issues which are burning issues should be opened. There is an opposition proposal that the Constitution now introduces women's right to freedom of birth. That's what we heard. That's the idea. The proposal was also in the draft Constitution, the Christmas Constitution, which miraculously disappeared two weeks before the vote. We know about the pressures of which group, but he was recognized. So he was recognized and part of it was... Our Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there are records of that. It's time to resist these pressures, say we're a secular state and recognize women's right to choose. And since we have failed to institutionally ensure the implementation of the law that we will now give a committee and say that this is constitutional law, the state will be responsible for the damage if it does not provide and no majority in the Constitutional Court will ever change that because it is a constitutional provision and it is a constitutional provision on human rights, fundamental rights. And that's why I'm inviting you once again to make a big civilization step and open the space that when we open the Constitution to do what's important for our citizens. To regulate the possibility of a referendum in a way that is a regulated area, to facilitate the launch of a people's initiative and, of course, to enable them to be effectively implemented to the end, but also to protect women's right to choose. You know your voters support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121058	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peović, HSS and the Workers' Front final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121059	Thank you, everyone, I mean what Sandra said would actually be good if it were possible, unfortunately, the ruling majority refused to put into debate what was required by a progressive opposition, which is related to women's right to free choice and the second sentence that we have entered, which is the right that the state should provide. But I certainly call on you to think there's still room for you to actually respect the opinion of your own voters in this process because now you're going against it. But as I said in the previous debate, even if you haven't decided to put it into these changes, the Constitution is unclear why you allowed one proposal that has a sufficient number of signatures to enter the agenda of this session, and another proposal that also has a sufficient number of signatures and which is also substantive, means changing the Constitution is not in the debate today. It's completely incomprehensible, isn't it, but it's still a signal somewhere even though we've been involved in these proposals that there's no will to talk, to talk about what these changes should be. And I'm just here to briefly sum up what's on our side of the remark. So it's just, so there are four segments that we're changing here. Only in one segment are the changes and the proposal for a change of good. So that's reducing the number of signatures from 10% to 250,000, that's all hailed plus means certainly increasing the amount of time it takes to collect the signatures from 15 to 40. That's what everyone said I'd say hello. The second thing is to put a quorum, and now there are a lot of people who agree that this would be good for constitutional, constitutional changes to the quorum, but that the quorum is absolutely too high. So that's not a quorum that's real. So the HDZ proposal passes the referendum if one-third of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia backs the referendum issue for amending the Constitution and organic laws. And it's even more hypocritical of the rule that you've introduced that means decomposing and joining in supranational communities that should be more than 50%. For the laws you put 1/3 and here I agree with the suggestion that maybe it doesn't need a quorum because it's something fluid. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the organic laws of 25 to 30% of the voters enrolled would be about 967,500 for association and disunity, as well as 25 to 30%, although when we had this referendum on EU accession, it should only mean 50% of the voters left, it was somewhere when compared to the current number of 1/3 of the current voters. So we can't play this way of joining and disuniting from transnational communities in a way you can check in any time you like but you never leave, so it's not a hotel California, Europe and we shouldn't approach it that way. Some type of paranoia from some Yugoslav or regional associations in this proposal is likely to appear. What's important about this quorum is that in the fall you will go most likely to change the Constitution progressive opposition will go on return is it important to stress the return of the right to abortion in the Constitution. And now, of course, the quotas are being raised to restore the right that was elected 50 years ago, which entered the Constitution now, if HDZ wants to introduce that 1/3 of the voters entered must vote for that option, that would be over a million 290 thousand must be for a referendum issue that changes the Constitution. And so it's completely unrealistic or it's a real and fair quorum. So when we changed that constitution with the definition of family that was some, it was less than a million as far as I know. The third thing is even more problematic, so it's limiting what a referendum can be called on. So you should absolutely say that as far as this is concerned we can expect that any referendum cannot be launched and the constitutionality check, the Constitutional Court should be a partner and an assistant, not a block referendum initiatives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121060	Mr. Arsen Bauk, final SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121061	I thanked first of all for the record, my colleague, Boric, I was indeed the minister of the administration, but my task in the referendums was to count the signatures, and everything else went to the assembly, and as far as the numbering of the signatures was concerned, there was no objection. And as for the Constitutional Court and the judges who were in the Constitutional Court during the government of Zoran Milanovic, all 13 were elected while HDZ was in power, so that they had really nothing to do with our government. As far as this amendment to the Constitution is concerned, I'm going to try a bit of a picturesque sports dictionary. If it is usually working, if the normal functioning of parliament, the government and the parliamentary majority can be compared to some athletic discipline, it is a leap further. So you're going to try not to commit a crime and jump. And the change of the Constitution can be, the change of the Constitution can be compared to the cost. So you go and you have to jump three times and don't commit a crime to make it right. And the world's champion and world record player in the Yulimara Rojas triple jump can't go any further because the norm has come true with the jump shoes that have this little bigger sole. So even when changing the Constitution, you should be careful not to jump with shoes for ordinary laws but to adapt the equipment to the discipline that goes. And why am I saying this? So we, too, if anyone would be more careful to ask for my discussions and statements several times called on the parliamentary majority to approach the amendments to the Constitution because of the referendum matter. These changes to the Constitution have 4 pillars where in all 4 directions in my opinion, shifts are made in the right direction. When reducing the number of signatures, when defining topics, at the quorum to decide and in the previous constitutionality check. So the direction's okay, for a trip, it's okay. Now, not all of them are not all details of this, not all of these details are best written, and it is especially necessary to keep an eye on the marks, points and these sentences concerning the Constitutional Court, and at this point I will, until proven otherwise, interpret these provisions on the previous check and the referendum questions in an affirmative sense, which is that the Constitutional Court gives instructions to the organisers how to possibly bring the issue into line with the fact that they no longer have to do the constitutional test but to know in advance that the issue is constitutional and to start collecting signatures about it and that if the expensive signatures are to be called on this referendum. As for the quorum of decision-making, there have been stricter suggestions than this, I think a reasonable solution should be found and therefore the talks are served. Now, I think it would be a good idea not to be too rigid in the amendments to the Constitution and not to be slaved with certain chains, to remove the shackles only on the basis of this proposal, but to agree on some other topics, so that it can be found in the draft and the proposal of the Constitution. What is good when this decision is made, then the whole process goes to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we no longer have to be in clubs. So why is that good? Among other things, and because, if you look at the report from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, you will notice that this decision is sent to the plenary session with 10 votes, it is more than a two-thirds majority, that is the three-quarter majority and the pandan is 116 MPs in HS, therefore there is a sufficient level of political will and political wisdom in HS to complete this process that has been launched. And so, don't go in the wrong shoes now, the jump shoes are still going to jump the cost means because the disqualified one that's on the team is too thick or too president, the sole was a little tight. So there's room for a change to the Constitution, there's enough political will to get rid of these things, and of course, I know that you'd be the happiest to have us bring 600,000 signatures in the fall and you'd say, here, we have to, we're sorry, we have to do it that way and we'll try to afford it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121062	Please. Please. And finally, Mr. Nicole Grumoy's final views of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121063	To clarify, there are confused here, I see, especially confused fellow Habib who asks the question of how that we had a roundtable on constitutional changes, we say we didn't know this was going to be discussed. So we know that the topic of constitutional change is either the amendments to the Constitution or constitutional change, but it was not planned to be this debate on the agenda today. He stuttered, stuttered fellow Reiner, vice president of the Parliament when he announced there, that change of agenda, so he barely said it when they delivered him here. Number two. No. 2, so as a responsible party and a serious party, we have created a round table on which we have invited representatives of unions, representatives of civil associations, representatives of initiatives that have launched a referendum in Croatia so far and representatives of civil associations that oversee election processes and the referendum itself. And there are many good suggestions, some of which are likely to come to a certain conclusion. What is not clear to me after this day, why does the opposition support HDZ? Here, there's a colleague from the IDS, Lerotić, so somebody give me, here's my colleague Bauk, someone give me, colleague Maric, an argument that will make you raise your hand on Friday for these HDZ changes to the Constitution. One single argument. If HDZ has 76 hands, the process goes on because they don't need to, but 76 hands to continue the process. So you can still talk to HDZ about amendments to the Constitution. On Friday, you, colleague Lerotic of the IDS, colleague Bauk, colleagues Maric and others, you, if you raise your hand on Friday, have raised your hands for these amendments to the Constitution, for what HDZ proposes. Not that the process goes on because the process goes on independent of you. The process continues independently of you. So you can't, you're not needed at all unless you want for some reason, I don't know what you got, we weren't in those conversations, we refused those conversations, we didn't want to participate in them at all, I don't know what you were promised. Is there any road promised, some kind of tunnel, is it promised to fellow Bauku something that was promised, I can't know, Social Democrats, so what's promised? That's what you should tell the Croatian public. Which is why you will raise your hands on Friday for these amendments to the Constitution. If in the process that follows you manage to fight for your political goals, then you will be able to raise your hands for that constitutional framework that you agree with HDZ. But now you didn't agree to it. These are HDZ amendments to the Constitution. So there is no political or rational reason why you would raise your hands on Friday for HDZ unless something is promised to you. Unless you're hiding something from the Croatian public and I'm inviting you to make every intention known. Discover to the public what you've been negotiating. And don't hide behind the fact that you support the process going on. The process goes on without you. And HDZ cannot change the Constitution without you. They can't change the Constitution without you and you don't need them to move on, you just need them when you agree to amend the Constitution together, then you all raise your hand together. And I invite Croatian citizens, follow Friday who will assist HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. Today they are already praised by Plenkovic as a reasonable political option, so counterpart Bauk was praised, fellow Lerotic was commended by Plenkovic, so Social Democrats and all those therefore participating in this process. So you're going to expose yourself on Friday, Mr. Glasovac, and you don't have to be nervous about what I'm saying if you don't vote for HDZ on Friday. Then what I'm saying will be total nonsense, and you'll be able to do it on Friday, when you don't vote for HDZ, say Grmoya falsely accused us. If you raise your hand for HDZ on Friday, I'll be right and solved. So the bridge will reject this with disgust. This killing referendum and the will of the people. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121064	Time. Now. Now maybe, you can go to the place, and as far as I can remember, just... Potatoes, 10 kuna potatoes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Squirt 20, we're in the market. Mr. Bauk was the first to remember, not Mr. Lerotić. And you have two warnings. Here you go, Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121065	Thank you. Art. 238, namely, the representatives of the IDS are in this Assembly of 2nd convocation, representatives of the SDP of 1st and we are the only ones who have never co-ordinated with HDZ unlike HSS, HSLS, HNS and many others, and to metaphorically express myself as colleagues of Rasputic, some have played with the fox and both times ended up in the henhouse in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121066	Thank you very much. ... You know there's a warning coming because it was a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121067	Thank you very much. Art. 238, insulting and twisting everything that has been said so far by a colleague of Grumoja. I'm really off to the first time I called my name, but I won't. So you can't twist things like that, that we've been promised something, etc. And from where you have the right to be psychic Milan and to speak, is, you will do so anyway. I mean, you're a little insulting, you've gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121068	So I'm not going to change my attitude, I'm not going into content, I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Now it's your turn. Yeah, yeah, I know, but there's still injuries to the Rules of Procedure, right? Look, you won't be over the line, we're not in the mail. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121069	Thank you. Art. 238, a great expert in arbitration, Mr. Grumoy, who then knew what would happen today, today again the opposition is trying to suggest what will be Friday. He knows everything, says I'm fighting for the citizens, but I'm looking at this little particular interest of mys, this little party bridge, it's more important to me than what you want to arrange to be right, and that's a referendum because then we have a problem. We can't politicize, we can't do what we did and it's Only his message today [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.]] Man... [[It was, it was...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121070	... third and you have a third warning and a confiscation of words until the end of this debate. Mr. Habian, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121071	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, he's been injured. 238 by my colleague Grumoja. So it's interesting that the president of the Anti-Corruption Council actually here in his speech for at least 3 minutes has shown a real example of political corruption, so you've been insinuating and provoking and minority blaming all those who will possibly vote for this proposal on Friday which they consider to be good, therefore, it's an honor for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121072	Thank you very much. The warning, it was a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121073	Thank you very much. I refer to the article. 238 and of course, I immediately know that I will get this thing that follows me, but I don't, I want to say that Mr. Grmoya has managed to arrive on the 3rd day at a session of the Parliament, the truth God, I suppose he hasn't broken some traffic this, those restrictions, but good that he's arrived, and what the people say is that all things happen to you in life three times. Therefore, colleagues from the Most, for the first time, for the second and third time, you will end up with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121074	Thank you. Time, time, time. It was a replica, and you said it yourself. That's the third one, I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121075	So he's hurt. 238, I didn't prejudge or tell you what you were going to do. I said if you voted, it would prove that you were assisting HDZ. If you don't, then you'll be able to call me by right that I falsely accused you. We watch you Friday, we call on the Croatian public to follow, so how will SDP vote, Social Democrats and the rest The left opposition. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121076	Thank you. Thank you very much. A third reminder with a take of a word. And I don't know why I always like these things, so here you go, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the promoter at the end. Here you go. ... What's that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no. No, Mr. Peovic, you signed up after that. After I gave Mr. Bosnakovic my word. After Mr. Bošnjakovic, you can give him a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if you will. Will you? Mr. Bosnjakovic lets you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic, wait a minute. - Mrs. Crescent. Peović, Mr. Bošnjakovic, lets you gentlemen know that the Workers' Front has its word before HDZ. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121077	Well, thank you very much. Here's the same form of corruption at Nikola Grumoya. I never wish to answer the Grumoji, so 238, disdaining MPs and MPs. What would be correct at least, if, when you say, the entire left-wing opposition would vote for HDZ,... The labour front said at the beginning of the debate that we wouldn't vote, so then, let's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These have problems counting some, and you have problems with letters. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121078	Thank you very much, the time, the third, it was, it was, it was a replica, the warning is unfortunately with the taking of words. Mr. Bosnakovic, welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the motionors of these decisions I want to thank everyone for the debate, for their contribution. It's clear we're only on the first step, so this debate on the essence of things is just following in step two and step three, but we've already got a lot of information, we've already got a lot of good and constructive suggestions, so we're not going to have one with the disgust that I would say no to. We're going to consider all this, we're going to discuss all this for another reading and just what I want to say in a formal sense. It was said here that we must vote on decisions as well as drafts. Here we really need to figure out a draft and a draft. We now have a decision with a draft proposal, and in the second step we're actually going with a concrete draft. So on that side, we settle that doubt. The amendments you've made, we're proposing and there are 92 of us, we have plenty of time to discuss tomorrow, so we'll talk about it, and we'll get together. I'd say we've offered a good concept for me to settle the matter of a referendum that, which is as it is we'll still be in the next phase to see where we are. We've made it clear what we're up for, somewhere we even match up with others, we want to cut the number of signatures we need, we want to extend the time actually needed to collect the signatures. The dispute is whether, it is very controversial about the previous decision to permit the constitutionality of the issue itself. Now I'm asking again what kind of situation we have today? We have today the same Constitutional Court at the center actually that decides on it. Issues related to the support of the referendum are also controversial. That's what we said we were ready to talk about, whether this is affected by 1/3 or 1/4 that's going to follow in step two and three. Once again, here's a thank you to everyone for the debate, and I actually believe that after Friday, the procedure goes on, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121080	Thank you very much, sir, no, you don't have to stay here and have replicas. Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121081	Thank you. This is a business opportunity to respond without warning to my colleague, Grumoji. First we see these changes as protection against right-wing pulsism and right-wing extremism, that's the first because most of the initiatives were anti-human.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121082	But, but I would ask you to ask Mr. Bošnjakovic a question you can't just say "Grmoji" in replica, at least say "Bosnjakovic".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121083	Five seconds, five seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121084	At least mention Mr. Bosnjakovic, good evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121085	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121086	Okay, at least something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121087	That's another 12 seconds. Second...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121088	At least something, no, no, I'll give you a little more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121089	Yeah, good, good. You must have listened to what Mr. Grmoya asked me. Secondly, when this issue is limited, then there will be fewer places for ideological recommendations and then when we are in the coalition as counterpart Rasdic said the ideological moratorium will be easier for both of us and you. So we're helping you with this. And third, if we vote for a decision tomorrow, the decision will be made, and if we don't vote for a decision The same decision will be made [[Time, thank you very much.]] And you'll be watching us. [[Intruder: Time, thank you very much, time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121090	Would you like to answer Mr. Bosnjakovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121091	And I'll be looking at you for Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121092	Wait a minute, please, Mr. Bosnjakovic, would you like to say hello? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121093	What am I gonna say to him? [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121094	Well, say good evening to you, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121095	Thank you. You told your colleague Bošnjaković we were only at the beginning of the first of three steps. Here, it will be interesting to see whether something fundamentally changes from that first to the third, or whether this time the HDZ procedure will use only forms for the sake of it, and the content as it imagined it would be. And the other thing that interests me, I know you're not going to give an honest, accurate answer, but I'm going to ask the question so I can hear what you're going to say. Why, of all the problematic, neural points of our Constitution, why exactly the referendum and why right now, there has to be a reason, this HDZ does not do the state, because of the Croatian people, because of the HDZ, for this reason, I am interested in the HDZ why the referendum and why now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121096	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121097	Well, dear colleague Oreshkovic, I said that already in the introduction this morning why the referendum. We had on the table the Law on Referendum, we felt in fact and we saw that he enjoys a quite broad support, offers a whole series of solutions and in fact we all said that he doesn't make sense unless the Constitution changes and constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. And on that trail, thinking that we can get a wider support because there's no, there's no HDZ amendments to the Constitution here. Here they can only be broader changes to the Constitution means that they have wider support. And here we count that we can get broad support and a referendum actually introduce into one frame that's actually better than the ones we have. If we can do that, it'll be better for our society, if we don't try, and we'll keep doing all this the way you said at the beginning, we'll follow everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121098	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Informatics requires a few minutes for their needs, this one at 18 o'clock and 50 minutes we move on. It's 18.43 hours. All right, we have adapted the working conditions and we are moving to the next item of the agenda which is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure the legal right to terminate pregnancy on request in all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia The Proposer is representative of Anka Mrak Taritash on the basis of Articles 33, 165 and 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121106	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, again in the Croatian Parliament we are talking about abortion, it is not the first time, and I am sure it is not the last time, but this time the subject is not the new Law on abortion, nor is it the subject of including the right to abortion in the Constitution, we both need these things, but neither the law governing the abortion nor that the Constitution mentions it are not our biggest problems in this matter. We have the law, though very old, but fortunately during the time it was passed it was very modern and today how it works. The Constitutional Court gave its opinion on the abortion, declared that it was in accordance with the Constitution or that its prohibition would be contrary to the Constitution. They assure us that's enough, though, because of recent experience from the United States, by abolishing the verdict, we think we need to be very careful. But the conclusion that we are discussing today is, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues who have brought their signatures to the debate, as far as something else is concerned. This conclusion concerns the exercise of the right to abortion. It concerns the availability of abortions. As far as the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court are concerned, they are truly and realistic, that what is written on paper exists in real life, and here we have a serious problem. I'm serious. Because of what's-his-name. Calls for conscience, because of the appeal of conscience in some major Croatian hospitals, abortion on request is completely unreachable, and in some it is very difficult. Doctors, gynecologists and anesthesiologists, medical staff, recipients all of them may be, and a large number of them are in the call of conscience. I find it particularly problematic that we have even gynecology specialists who are already as specialists in the appeal of conscience before they specialize they have already said they will not do part of their work. The appeal of conscience is based on the idea of freedom, opinion of conscience and religion guaranteed by many conventions on human rights as well as a democratic constitution, but it is wrong to place a sign of equality between the freedom of conscience of an individual with the right to refuse, in the workplace paid for by public money, that is why the money of all citizens of these same citizens is refused to provide a service which is permitted and envisaged by law. That relationship is very suspensed. A common case calls for the conscience we face is the one in the service of the army. In all civilized countries, where there is still a mandatory military deadline, the handbooks can appeal to conscience about carrying arms and then military deadlines serve in some other way, but this applies to situations where there is an obligation for all. If all of us for some reason in one part of our lives had to be, say, gynecologists who are expected to work and abortion, I would understand that appeal of conscience. But no one is obliged to be a gynecologist or an anesthesiologist. Those who have such an outstanding moral feeling should consider specializing in another branch of medicine, not in the case of the one with whom they have a problem. By refusing to perform the procedures allowed by law and the usual part of the work, they are actually insensitive even though they call for morality and conscience. They are heartless toward patients who refuse to help in a difficult situation, and they are insensitive to their colleagues who, if they are not in the call of conscience, turn into an abortion doctor because they have to compensate for their colleagues' unhappiness. It's a special group that has this intense moral feeling in a public institution, but when they come to private, they leave them at the door and have no problem with the appeal. And we all know there's a solid amount of them. There is even less to do with the idea of freedom of conscience with the fact that a public health institution does not provide any legally prescribed and accessible service at all because all or most doctors have called for a conscience call. In this sense, calling for a conscience is not the achievement of one's human or civil rights but exactly the opposite is a violation of one's rights because the very idea of our rights is that their achievement cannot be such that it violates or deprives other people's rights. In its analysis of legal sources and standards, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia calls out the following quotes, in the provisions of legally binding international documents in the area of the protection of human rights, the appeal of conscience is not referred to as a single human right which states are obliged to provide. In addition, the Ombudsman adds that the appeal as a right is not absolute and can be limited, and in the context of the call for a conscience in health care should not be an obstacle to access to health or health services. I think it's smart enough. Prime Minister Plenkovic accuses us of discussing abortion and thus collecting cheap political points on a public-sharing topic. The king of cheap political points that citizens pay dearly doesn't like the subject of abortion. The last time he was in the assembly, he almost accused me of having orchestrated the Cavide case. Except I'm worried about this level of paranoia I have to tell the Prime Minister this. No one should organise scandals in Croatia, you and the institutions you have hired are doing great. Have we or any of us here told the hospitals that a woman in a serious difficult situation has been denied a health care service? Did we organize commissions that lied and scolded? Is the Wild Director of KBC our man or an incompetent minister? No one had to organize anything, tragic failures, incompetence, law enforcement, regulations, ethical norms, that is Plenkovic's government and his team doesn't need anyone's help for that. In this context, the subject of abortion does not share the public at all, and our public opinion is very clear. According to the latest survey conducted on the subject, 72.8% of people in Croatia support the right to abortion. It seems to me that it's quite a solid majority. In this survey, when support is compared with supporting political parties above 50%, it is from the far left to the far right. HDZ voters are at 64.3% support. So, the prime minister is very wrong to think that this conclusion that I represent today is public because it is not really the conclusion of an abortion. This is the conclusion on the achievement of the human and civil rights entered in our Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the laws. This law, this conclusion, is respect for law and equality before law. So that's the conclusion of the fundamental elements of the state that works, and if that's shared by the public, e colleagues and colleagues, I think we have a serious problem. So what do I suggest the council supports? I propose that the Assembly support the conclusion that the government is obliged to ensure that by the end of 2022 a sufficient number of doctors who are performing a pregnancy termination on request in all for this authorised healthcare institutions in the Republic of Croatia so that the legal right to terminate pregnancy on request is accessible, unlimited and uninterrupted. And that's all. Point. I suggest that the government be given a warrant to comply with its own laws and constitutions in its own institutions. It's a shame we have to ask for a special conclusion at all. You'd think that in one normal state you'd somehow expect for yourself, but no. In order to achieve the law of special rights, we must write special conclusions, so that it collects signatures to come to the debate, and then the ruling majority will refuse it. This is unfortunately the degree of rule of law in Croatia. And what are the official records of the appeal of conscience? We don't know exactly. And that's one serious problem for yourself. When the Ministry of Health can have a general impact on the organisation of work so that laws are respected if there is no idea what the situation is like in hospitals and how many doctors and medical staff really don't do their job. The attorney general mentioned earlier warns us in his analysis that the appeal of conscience is an individual right which, as individuals, can benefit from health activities, employees, but the responsibility of the institution or state is to ensure that calling for a conscience does not affect the entire institution or parts of the health system. And that's exactly what we're looking for, no more, no less. No one here says anything about the appeal of conscience thinks you should forbid it, even though you're tricking us. But what we're saying is that health care needs to be provided so that the appeal of conscience does not have a negative impact on the provision of health services. And how business will be organised when they have no idea what the situation is. On 20 April of this year, I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic at the current afternoon how does the government intend to ensure the legal rights of abortion? His reaction was to be surprised that it was a problem at all and that he had no such information, but he turned to Minister Beros and gave him an important warrant to deliver the data. I know that on the basis of this order from the Prime Minister and the Parliament Service, they sent their part of the job a request. Don't be lazy, and I've sent Minister Beros on the same subject. I asked him to provide me with accurate official information on the number of gynecology specialists, anaesthesiology specialists, gynecology specialists and anaesthesiologists in Croatian hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics, general hospitals and other public health institutions that call for a conscience and refuse to conduct pregnancy interruption procedures, prenatal diagnostics and/or birth control procedures under Article 20. The medical bill. I prayed that these data were sorted by institutions, with a total number of doctors working there to know which percentage is the key information, because 5 doctors with a conscience call in one hospital where 5 of them is something different from those where they are, for example. 60. I also asked how the Ministry of Health intends to regulate the issue of the organisation of work and the availability of pregnancy termination procedures, the questions of the ministry's reporting for the need to plan staff, the obligation to inform patients and the public about the status of a particular doctor in view of the call for conscience, the question of compensation for doctors who do not carry out their full-scale work, and the issue of licensing and accreditation of institutions that do not carry out a complete gynology procedure program. We wait for our answers and Prime Minister Plenkovic and I and the Croatian public for 3 months, it has been 3 months, despite the haste, which the assembly has been sending neatly. You will remember that some time ago we had headlines in the media as Minister Beros sent out questions about the number of doctors with a conscience call at the hospital's address, but what information he received, we don't know anything about it. That's why, over the years, most researchers and civil society organisations have tried to access that data. According to some of them, until we have received official information from the April 2020 Reproductive Justice Platform, it was not possible to terminate the pregnancy on request or at all obtain an answer to the question whether they are carrying out the procedure. Among them are General Hospital in Nasice, Požega, Vinkovci, Knina, KBC Split, KBC Holy Spirit, and KBC Sisters of Mercy. Of some institutions, the answer was not received even after multiple enquiries, such as the KBC Sisters of Mercy. Hospitals in Požega and Vinkovci collectively use the call of conscience. Similarly, it showed an interactive map of the availability of a medical service to stop the pregnancy of a group of experts. According to that map in the KBC Sisters of Mercy 15 out of 19 doctors used the appeal of conscience, and in the KBC the Holy Spirit of All 20. In KBC Split, only 1 doctor did not use the appeal of conscience. That kind of data and research was still there, but they all show the same picture. In some of the largest hospitals, abortion is inaccessible, in some it is very limited, and in some there are no problems, doctors do not call for a conscience, so I ask how it is possible. In one hospital, everyone's calling, and in the other, nobody's calling. Regardless of the causes of these differences, they lead to another systemic problem known in Croatia. The availability of healthcare depends on where you live. It's just that it's already inadmissible and the government should make sure that something like this doesn't happen. What the government has done has responded to the conclusion that we are discussing today. Of course, it supports recommending that the assembly does not support us and unfortunately it does not surprise us, but in fact that answer is very politely formulated without aggression and underestimation although we who are proposing know that it is not always so. And what does that answer say? He writes that gynecologists are obliged to inform the patient and document in writing in their specialist report and in hospital medical documentation and to refer the patient to another physician of the same profession in that institution. The government also recalls that the Law of Medicine is permitted on the basis of the same appeal, but only if it does not conflict with the rules of the profession and does not result in permanent health consequences and endangers the life of the patient. Medical institutions are also required to keep records of healthcare professionals who have called for an appeal, the right to appeal for conscience. Then the team is no longer clear to me. Why does it take three months to get the data? What is particularly interesting about the government's response is the following sentence. If the director of a medical institution cannot ensure that the pregnancy interruption procedure is carried out at the request of a patient with hospital employees he is obliged to hire an external associate, doctor gynecology specialist. I repeat, the director of the hospital is required to hire an outside associate if there is no one in the hospital who can carry out the abortion. This answer has the government president's signature, maybe the women who have slammed the door in front of their noses could, maybe these women could print that answer if they took it to the principals. I wonder what the reaction would be. In any case, the conclusion here is in front of us, the council has a chance to accept it. My colleagues and colleagues have already given support from the centre and left parties, but I call on colleagues and colleagues from the right-hand side of the assembly to think carefully about which button they will press on Friday, bearing in mind several facts. First of all, this is not the conclusion of an abortion, of an abortion law, of an abortion of the Constitution. This is the conclusion of the possibility of each of us having in reality the rights that are written in our Constitution, in law, that is the conclusion of the functioning of the state. Secondly, this is not the conclusion of the ban calling for conscience. This is the conclusion of the government's obligation to keep in mind the realization of two opposing right jobs so that they do not come together to conflict at the expense of people and patients. Third, this is not an ideological theme that divides citizens. If we bear in mind this serious research, it shows that the majority of Croatian citizens support the right to abortion, then I really must admit that I do not see the problem of this conclusion and support. And fourthly, this is the conclusion of righteousness. About justice among various parts of Croatia so that health institutions are available everywhere and all equally. And last but not least, this is the conclusion that corrected another great injustice against women because of the abortion. His inaccessibility and the related problems are again most affected by women who are once again deprived of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121107	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121108	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, I must commend your efforts, how hard you have tried to write this. You're talking about women, but I have to say that these innocent babies in their mothers' wombs aren't the only women they can be both males and girls, so they're both genders about the same. I'm interested in the fact that you don't recognize the scientific fact that life begins with conception and that it's alive in your mother's womb if you're letting a doctor who's trained for it and knows that life starts by starting to respect that fact and not doing what you really want him to do, and that's abortion. So he's been educated and he knows that life starts with conception and he just doesn't want to do what you're doing right now, and you want to impose on him or her this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121109	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121110	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, you place the situation as if we want every woman of her fertilized age to necessarily have to make an abortion. So that's not what we're talking about. We're not talking here. This isn't about abortion. This is the theme of the functioning of the state based on our constitution and the basis of our law. Women have the right to a medically secured pregnancy interruption. It gave us the Constitution, that made it possible for us to do so. On the other hand, we have facilities where all doctors use their right to appeal to their conscience. Whose right is stronger? Who's going to decide which one's stronger? This is the conclusion of the state's functioning. This is the conclusion that the government is doing its job, no longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121111	My colleague Zekanovic, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's think about it. For this is your third warning, if there is a replica. [[No, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121112	The third is, seven and 17 is here. I'd go home. So, Honorable Vice President Article 238, here's colleague Mr. Taritash here denying some scientific facts, and I love science repeatedly pointed that out. And on the other hand, it really bothers me when we look up to America for everything, and we don't look up to each other on this point. Why shouldn't America be a role model to our country as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121113	It was of course a replica you know yourself, I have to give you a third reminder based on Article 240(2) means by taking away the words until the end of the debate about this topic. [[Intruder: Yes.]] We're going to the next line, the respected representative of Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121114	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Mrak Taritash for recognising our initiative to return to the Constitution and the importance of this initiative among the first. And secondly, it's very important that you recognize here that it's not so much about the attack of ultraconservative Catholic organizations and groups that have taken away our right to abortion, although of course there is that and we've been following this conservative revolution since the '90s, but actually the inaccessibility of abortions in hospitals. And often they ask us well how when it comes back to the abortion in the Constitution you'll solve the fact that you actually have a situation in hospitals that you have too many objectors tips, so we're going to warn that this right has already been denied by a large number of women today. Consider how many hospitals don't do that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121115	Thank you, esteemed representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121116	Thank you, dear colleague Peovic. So, not in my sleep that someone 5 or 10 years ago asked me that in this assembly when I started a few years ago, I had to talk politics about it, and I wanted the right to abortion to be, to go back to the Constitution, as you say, I thought I would never need it, and I should. And even more absurdly, we have to propose a conclusion that we want the government to commit to doing its job. So, I'm on the right to appeal to my conscience, but here I'm not contesting that one of the doctors has the right to appeal to conscience. I'm just contesting that the system has to work. They can also have a number of reasons, but the system must work for all women in the entire Croatian area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121117	The replica of the respected representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121118	Dear MPs, Mr. Taritash, listening to you and reading the explanation of this proposal of the conclusion as much as you try to say it is not, the only point of your proposal is that you want to abolish the right to call for conscience. To everything you're saying, to everything you've written, that's exactly what you're confirming. You do not respect the government's opinion, you do not respect the response that tells you that the healthcare system is available to all patients in the legal frameworks, you do not respect the doctor's right to appeal to conscience and the legal right of a woman not to interrupt pregnancy. You don't respect that. You are referring to the data you have collected from the platform for reproductive justice and the group of experts Code for Croatia. And you just want to abolish the right to appeal to your conscience. As a progressive opposition, the liberal party has abolished human rights, so I don't think it's been recorded yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121119	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121120	Dear Brkan, we were obviously these 20 minutes in different rooms and we spoke different language, maybe I didn't speak this Croatian but some other language so you didn't understand me very well, so I'll repeat it. I didn't say at any point anywhere in the exhibit that the right to appeal to conscience was lifted. But I'd like you to tell that to those women who came to the facility, who we know, that we're witnessing because brave women testify to that and their right to abortion couldn't achieve it. Whose real one is stronger? It will, therefore, exist in, so there is in the literature the right when a woman had to choose between two children who would stay alive, not to say anything further. Whose right is stronger, the right of a doctor to appeal to a conscience or to a woman to receive constitutional and law-guaranteed law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121121	Thank you. Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121122	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I respect you as an excellent architect, but this proposal of yours is a direct pressure on the Ministry of Health, on doctors, on health institutions and not justifiably, completely unwarranted or perhaps partly in those institutions where you may not be doing what you're doing, but why am I telling you this? Annually, and you have statistics, so about 7 thousand and 500 is the interruption of pregnancy in Croatia, so we're better than the average of Europe, 164 gynecologists do abortions every year, so all year round, if we divide it, that's 20 abortions a day, so 160 gynecologists can make 20 abortions a day, and so there are extra doctors who do it. If we take only those without a medical indication, means a healthy mother, a healthy child, it's only 2,600 women 7 abortions a day, so 160 gynecologists 7 abortions a day can't make. I think this is a direct pressure on doctors and on the appeal of conscience and on health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121123	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121124	Thank you very much. Dr Karlic, what I did not answer earlier, imagine that I received the ministry's answer on the exact number of people in the call of conscience I should not refer to anything other than that answer, I did not get it, maybe Prime Minister Plenkovic gets, so we will be lucky that we know about it too. The same right to abortion is guaranteed by the constitution. Explain what you asked me about that brave woman who was willing to share it with the public, who came to Osijek and then happened to find out that the doctor who was to perform the abortion had not performed. Explain this to women, so none of us have the right to judge what kind of situation a woman is in, what kind of situation the family is in, what kind of situation all of them are in when they have to perform a medical pregnancy interruption, so who of us has the right to judge that woman and someone takes that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121125	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121126	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think that HDZ colleagues will have to go to the report to Prime Minister Plenkovic because the document, which Prime Minister Plenkovic is therefore in response to this conclusion, is well said that every health institution is obliged to ensure that pregnancy is interrupted at the request plus detailed explanations as it seems. We were 10.6. The Committee on Health and Social Policy and thematic session was an appeal to conscience. None of us are slow to appeal to conscience, but also the right to abortion. On the other hand, some of those present at a session from different institutions have transferred a ball to the Ministry of Health that it must provide, which we are actually looking for. In the context of the announced changes to the health reform where the state will take over health institutions, then who will really have to, whose authority it will be to ensure that this right exists, the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121127	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121128	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric, so when I decided on this conclusion, I just asked myself a few times, you're a little bit normal to the end, you're going with the conclusion where you ask the ministry and the government to do their job, just that, no more. This is about the issue of building permits, to explain the matter completely to the end, in principle the architects do, and may be architects who say, I will not issue this building permit, this house is nakaradic, it is ugly, I don't like the façade and imagine that in the assembly we have to ić with the conclusion that we oblige the competent ministry to ensure in the area of Croatia that construction permits are issued, I am sorry and difficult, these are incomparable things, these are houses without which we can, here are people and people's lives, but that's what we're talking about colleagues and colleagues about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121129	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121130	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, every time I look at this explanation of yours and then the government's opinion and I see it's in the article. 20, if I didn't read it now, the Law on Health, it's a duty to provide meaning, but there's one of these sentences down there that's me, I'd like you to explain this to me, the right of a doctor to appeal to a conscience and the legal right of a woman to terminate pregnancy doesn't rule out each other, so please explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121131	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121132	Perfectly respected colleagues, exactly as we in Croatia do not have institutions where all doctors in the call of conscience of this conclusion should not be, or that in those institutions the director has a real contract and that someone else, an external associate and everything else performs a pregnancy interruption of this conclusion should not be, so precisely who can appreciate whose right is stronger with the fact that the government’s reply clearly states that in medical documentation, so the doctor who is in the call of conscience writes that he is in the call of conscience and direct the patient to another doctor, not in some institution in Slovenia but in the same institution, it is written in response to the government, so if they have written some conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121133	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121134	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I think we must repeat the material again, so we have a conclusion before us which obliges the Ministry of Health to do the job in accordance with the law, and we are only asking here to do what they are responsible for. On the other hand, the government responds to no need to conclude, everything is under control, the healthcare system is available to everyone, doctors have obligations, doctors are entitled to a conscience, but it is also the legal right of a woman to terminate pregnancy, not to rule out both. Why are we here tonight, what are we discussing, MPs Dark-Taritash, what are we blind by healthy eyes?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121135	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121136	Thank you very much. My colleague Nemet, if all women in Croatia had the same opportunity and the same right to terminate their pregnancy, we would not sit here and debate today. If there weren't an institution where all the doctors were in the call of conscience, I wouldn't be sitting here arguing. If those institutions organized that the work was working, there was no need for us to sit here and debate because everything would work and not have those inscriptions and she wouldn't be unhappy, indeed, unhappy and brave Mrs. Chavaida would go to all the facilities and wait there for hours or days. So, I have nothing against it, and I can explain what and how. The appeal of conscience is colleagues on three subjects. One topic is the right to abortion. The other topic is contraception. The third topic is prenatal diagnostics. We have gynecologists who are in the call of conscience on prenatal diagnostics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121137	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121138	My dear colleague, Mr. Taritash, I was also wondering who's crazy about having to discuss this conclusion at all. It's just that we're discussing the conclusion that when a cop catches a thief stealing that he has to arrest him, he doesn't just walk past him. What is even more crazy to put it this way is for the government to sign an opinion on this proposal, which says it proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure legal law. So he suggests not to accept the conclusion that the law must be respected. And he also says that if the director of the health care institution can't provide such an employee with an obligation to hire an external doctor's associate. It doesn't say that anywhere in the law. An external associate doctor or the legal right of abortion is only possible if you turn directly to Berosha as the same Beros called on Cavida why she did not contact me because I am the one who will allow or will not grant her legal right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121139	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121140	My colleague Ahmetovic, we have nothing to add or subtract about what you said. We have the Constitution, we have the Constitutional Court ruling, we have the law, and what we have in the assembly now, and now we are going to conclude the Ministry of Health, Minister Beros, Mr Plenkovic, the President of the Croatian Government, please implement the laws of the Republic of Croatia, so someone who listens would say a little bit what these people in Croatia really are all talking about, which is a constant temperature of 45, so they've all gone crazy and everything. So that's those levels. And the absurd goes to the end that Prime Minister Plenkovic is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this conclusion or to propose that the ruling say no, we do not respect the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121141	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121142	Thank you. My colleague Mrak Taritash, and in fact I'm talking to all the MPs, I think we misplaced things when we said that the right to appeal to conscience and the right to medical termination of pregnancy is not two rights that exclude each other and that there is no right that is above the other. That's how it can be in theory, but in practice it's not like that. And the line of demarcation of every hospital, every health care facility is about whether the principal or any other responsible person, and it goes all the way to the minister checked as much in his hospital as there is a doctor with a conscience call. Because in order for these two rights to be truly balanced and even, first of all, gynecologists who do not have a conscience call must be employed because if they have a conscience, they are not able to perform a health care service, a medical service to women who are in need. So medical care is one part of the population, one part of women disabled, denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121143	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121144	My colleague Oreshkovic, therefore, is very difficult and I don't want to be on the subject of women's rights, so we're talking about something that is very difficult for any woman, for any family, that somehow, to simplify the matter because it's a difficult thing, but I'm afraid we need to simplify something. It looks like the next one to me. I'm a great student in high school, and I want to study medicine, the fact that when I see blood, I faint. It's a fact that every time I get blood or something I pass out, but there's no connection, I'm good, I'm valuable, and all of it together, I'm gonna end up in medicine, and then all of those procedures where there's blood I'm not going to do, I'm just going to do this little stethoscope and everything. That looks like it. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121145	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121146	Dear colleagues, I must first of all point out that I support this proposal for a conclusion that we are discussing today, and it is unfortunate that in July 2022 we have to discuss it, but unfortunately we see what is happening with us, but in the world of decisions of the Supreme Court in America where extreme right-wings are already parading, we have had the opportunity to hear it in your first replica today. And I wanted to actually figure through the replica, but there was one question that opened up for me. In fact, we heard here today that if we implement the law that we're going to put pressure on health care, I'm wondering if it's health care or if it's the pressure on health care 400 million kunas a month, because for example. Only in this minute of replica I have the debt has grown 9,200 kuna. 400 million kuna is money that I can't imagine, maybe someone can, but 9,200 can in one minute in your replica another 9,200 you know it by yourself 18,400.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121147	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121148	Thank you very much, colleague Lerotić, if it were to be answered by Minister Beros, I would say to the esteemed representative thank you for your question indeed that perhaps the pressure of the opposition might be smaller, so we could devote ourselves to the health reform of which there is no R and then we could do our job, but imagine the pressure of the woman rudely and blatantly say that somewhere I can't get a favor, imagine these women, are really rude and boastful, seeing these out of opposition instead of being silent, being constructive, raising and so gentlely they say ministers for their job, are really doing their job, are you, this opposition is not very normal, but I'm curious when Prime Minister Plenkovic will get a response from Minister Beros?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121149	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have spoken many times about the different dimensions of inaccessibility of healthcare in the area of reproductive rights, so it is good that we have stressed here that this is not just about the inaccessibility of abortion but about the entire spectrum of services in the area of reproductive law. Here's specifically a colleague of the coat of arms on the board yesterday. I was talking about the fact that we have over 13% of the midwives. [[Dark-Taritash Invader: Right]] primates who refuse to give birth to children conceived in vitro by fertilisation, and now you tell me whether it's an appeal to conscience or it's purely discrimination, and who ever remembered that it can be tolerated in a democratic society based on some idea of the rule of law that a recipient can refuse to give birth to children based on their origin, I think it's, and the way of conception, amazing. [[Dark-Taritash Invader: Every Eighth]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121151	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121152	My colleague, that's scary, in a country that's been in since '91. until 2022. 15 thousand fewer children are born, it is birth, Čakovec has 15,300 inhabitants per last list, there are approximately so many fewer children, in which women decide to have children because of a series of conditions, instead of encouraging and allowing all conditions for women to actually be a free series of procedures, to allow women who want to be mothers to be mothers, so to speak, and everything else. Every eighth recipient in the Republic of Croatia doesn't want to participate in a birth where the child was conceived in vitro, and what we know...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121153	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121154	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I don't know how you feel, but I feel like a woman quite humiliated when I look at how in the secular state the public health system is cleared and subordinated to some kind of personal belief, and the state shows total infirmity. You mentioned specialists who are already going to call on conscience, as it is possible that we have 61, a lack of 61 gynaecological team, means we lack a gynecologist, the state does nothing to increase that part, on the one hand prohibits the permission of the University of Pula for the Faculty of Medicine, and during the night the Croatian Catholic University passes the negative opinion of the National Council gives permission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121155	Thank you. Dear, honourable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121156	My colleague Glasovac, I would say that things are clear, so I was deliberately saying that this is the conclusion that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic are just doing their job, but when you break it all together, there are a lot more problems underneath. How is there no conscience in Rijeka, and in Split only one doctor is not in the call of conscience, how is that possible? So these are things, how it's possible that what we're talking about some women in Croatia are saying at all, so the check works a little bit, and some part of the country doesn't work. I would dare indeed say that if we overlapped the map of the split crown and overlapped the map where he was called to his conscience and where he is... toggle with each other. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121157	Thank you. Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121158	Dear colleagues, so we are not talking here today about the appeal of conscience, he is not contentious to us, but I must also conclude that I am troubled by the fact that the appeal of conscience can be called upon, so at the time of the abortion, let us understand very embarrassing and no one wants to participate in anything that is truly unpleasant, but the right to contraception, if anyone wants to do so, so is not our task as a doctor, an educator to direct a man to protect himself from unwanted pregnancy so that he does not have to go to that abortion that is for all of us, but indeed to everyone, unpleasant, he is not comfortable, the least pleasant woman who finds himself in that position and that is the biggest problem for that woman who has to decide for some reason of his, and we are not here to judge her for what she has decided, but the right to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121159	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121160	Dear colleagues, when you enter and when you first do something and close your eyes on the fact that you have a hospital system that doesn't work at all because everyone's in the call of conscience then it gets out of hand, then it happens to you that the doctors don't want to be given, sell contraceptives, appeal consciences are from three things, one thing is the right to abortion, another thing is the right to contraception and the third thing in 2022. when we rely on medicine, as far as possible, prenatal diagnostics, so what is the right of someone to have a conscience call and not perform prenatal diagnostics, how it's not embarrassing, how it's not embarrassing, how it's consistent with the basic education that's been given to them to help everyone. Thank you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121161	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? Okay, then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will speak to the respected representative, Renata Sablar Dračevac. [[No, thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121162	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, it is nice that you are here today with us, I would like you to be able to answer some questions, but I do not think that we will have the honor and satisfaction to have, for example, personally interested in the meeting of the Health Committee where we discussed and called our conscience, it is clear that the Ministry of Health should be regulated or I know that the secretary of state in that session had one plate of obvious numbers, the number of doctors who are in the call of conscience, we were not available to us, but someone said that we should be even or that the call of conscience could not organise every institution for ourselves. The appeal of conscience should, should be clarified, clarified at national level and that the exact conditions are known. I respect the decision, but the honest decision of anyone who decides not to participate in the abortion. It is much, much harder for me to understand why they are calling for a conscience related to contraception because with it we will prevent these unwanted pregnancies and we will not be brought into unpleasant situations by doctors and the system and health care, and we will allow the woman and her, right to her health care. But what I find completely incomprehensible is the right to out-of-body insemination. Every woman has a right, so you don't know the reasons why someone can't get carried away. Medicine has gone so far and wouldn't we have made it possible for one who could have a child to do so? Well, everyone, I think the need for most women is to become mothers. And fathers too to become fathers. Don't think that we dispute your right, but you need to know that this is an achievement, one of the successes of modern medicine that needs to be supported, which should be encouraged because no one goes to assisted insemination, if there is no need for it. My colleague Karlic, you're saying that 160 gynecologists are referred to, handling abortions. Here, it's interesting that you, you're a board member, you have this information, I have this information, so you have more information, and you'll share it with us, that table, but we don't have it, yes, and then we have a situation that at our session of the board, Dr. Miran Cvitković, a pediatric specialist with a narrow specialization in intensive medicine from the Department of Pediatric Intensive Medicine of the KBC Zagreb, and also the president of the Croatian Medical Law Association says that of 359 doctors in system 49 is performing an abortion, and you say that's 160. So, no, I have to admit that when I saw this proposal and I saw the government's proposal, there's no difference, so the government is saying everything in the proposal. And when it says at the bottom that no proposal is accepted, I don't understand it. Why a proposal that is in line with what the government is behind is not accepted. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Secretary of State told us that every institution would have to ensure the right to abortion, institutions that are obliged to do so. I really believed it would be that way. In the end, I wondered why my colleague, Dark Tarritash, was even asking a question like this. Obviously, I'm politically naive and I believed that, when a secretary of state can be held to his word, and as they say, not to the horns, but this obviously isn't because after that we get the government's answer, we don't support this conclusion. This conclusion is not aggressive at all, this is a good conclusion that only wants to encourage the ministry, the Ministry of Health to do its job. That's what this conclusion is all about. And I have to say that I was surprised, and when I saw, we had an e-mail session, and we didn't have since this was put on the agenda, so I have to say that I was surprised to see that my colleagues and colleagues so refused this proposal. This is a good suggestion. This is a proposal that acts or seeks to encourage the ministry to work in the interest of protecting women's health as it stands in the law. The Constitutional Court therefore said in its decision in 2017 that the applicable law is good. We discussed those 16 years at the session, so I have to tell the 16-year-old girl, she has the right to make a decision on her own for abortion, but it stands in this current law, it hasn't been changed. So, in that proposal that was, which was proposed. It's just a few things to move, but let's not move back. These are rights that have been acquired and there is no need for us to discuss it now. It would also point out that gynecology specialisation takes a long time and that gynecologists acquire 125 competences. One of these competences is, or we can say 3, so they don't even want to advise women on contraception, and they don't want to help them carry the child, and that even the midwives don't participate in it, it's really out of every sense, so three methods refuse to work. Of course, there's a bunch of other specializations where you can't get involved in something like that, so in the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church separated surgery from medicine because it was squirming blood and it took over the razors. Now, do we want some of the prodigals to take over and legally guaranteed women's right to abortion, I mean we have to be reasonable, that's something that saves lives. You work in an orderly system when the abortion goes wrong and your life will be saved, you will lose your uterus, but your life will be saved. What are we trying to accomplish, where are we going? I really ask you, especially fellow doctors, so this conclusion is really well-intentioned, we support this conclusion and let the ministry do its part of the job, and as far as health reform is concerned, that they can agree with colleague Mrak-Taritash that she is very superior, that I am extremely disappointed with how everything is directed, said one member of our board is always going softly, step on those you can, and never step on those strong ones that can't be affected, we need serious health reform, this reform must be from below, not from above, first fix things down in the wards in hospitals and then everything will be easier because we know who is the biggest debt generator in health, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121163	On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's best for us to just disband ourselves, that we all go home, I don't know why we're even making laws, why HS makes laws when the laws end some kind of body pair, and it's even sadder than being able to make sure that the Croatian laws are implemented and that the health system works in accordance with the laws that concern it, they take their hands off and say here today, we don't care, then we don't even have to worry about the state, what does this government at all, what does the ministry even ask for? We're going to volunteer as parliament attorneys to allow this kind of anarchy? According to the last census of the population last year, about 26 thousand women of childbearing age, it means from 15 to 45 years old. in Slavonia, more specifically in Požega-Slavonska and Virovitica-Podravska County, there is no access to the medical service of termination because it is decided by doctors who are all in the call of conscience in the two counties, so the ministry says so we are not concerned about what with 26 thousand women. In Split-Dalmatia County with a large population of only one person turns out to be mocked by the system because only one person performs this legally prescribed medical service, does not perform but provides and respects the law. It's not normal, my people are not normal. Okay, we have conscientious callers, but it's inadmissible to do nothing as a state to ensure, despite that fact, what the law says, and that's a sufficient number of people to provide women with that medical service she legally has the right to and the brother pays his brother through health insurance separations, and he can't get it, it's not normal. We must seriously start working on this, and do not pretend that this is none of our business and as far as we are concerned, the other fact that women are not given adequate, accurate information among other things and on the ways and conditions under which they can obtain this legal right, as in Osijek. On the official website of KBC Osijek, a public health institution in the Republic of Croatia publishes false information, nothing to anyone. Not only that, women say that they did her pregnancy termination procedure so that two weeks later she would realize that she was still pregnant and had to go to the Netherlands unlike Cavida, who had to go to Slovenia to get the state and pay 800 or 1000 or I don't know how many euros to get and satisfy the right that our country was bound by law to provide for free. My people, let's imagine that this is about any other service, not the one prescribed by the law that you have to get it, and that someone tells you no, I'm not going to give it to you out of my personal conviction and the state folds its hands and says what I care about, anyway, I'm the country that makes sense to itself, not to provide a system of people. How would we react? Let's get rid of all the other stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121165	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Brinkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121166	Dear MPs, here again with this proposal of conclusion you wish to abolish the right to call for conscience. You do not clearly accept the opinion of the government that says that the health, health system is available to all patients, you do not accept the government's response that says the hospital's director is obliged to hire an external medical associate specialist in gynecology and obstetrics in case all other doctors are entitled to the appeal of conscience. You don't accept it, you just want one thing, and that's what you said, you're disappointed that you don't even have a record of health workers who have called for the right to appeal to conscience. You want names, so what are you going to do with those names? So all you want is this conclusion to end the right to appeal to conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121167	Before you answer, Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121168	238, demeaning parliamentary representatives and MPs. Comrade Brkan, colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, and the very text of this conclusion clearly and unequivocally speaks of asking for the respect of the law. No one, not a colleague of Taritash, nor in a written part of this conclusion requires an end to the appeal of conscience. We've already told you this once, so we'd like to ask you nicely not to insult us or repeat the wrong information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121169	Thank you very much, it was, it was, it wasn't, it wasn't this, it was a pure replica clearly this one so you get a warning, and now you'll be respected... I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Maric, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121170	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Article 238, I really can't as a doctor shut up this twist of truth and this insult of everything we say. Where did you see us fighting to end the call of conscience? So did you read this at all what we're discussing? Have you read what your Prime Minister Plenkovic signed? Get your papers and see what we're talking about here in this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121171	My colleague Marić was in fact a replica, you are being warned by the order of Article 240(1). Now the respected representative and vice president of the Voice will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121172	Thank you very much. Comrade Brkan, I am a professor to you but unfortunately I can't help you with reading with understanding, I, unfortunately I can't help you there, but I can try to explain to you this point of this story. We have a public health system not private which, whose purpose should be to protect our citizens and patients. And there are some women and these women who have the right to reproductive health, and one part of that reproductive and sexual health is, among other things, to provide safety, under the health supervision of a controlled procedure that they choose not to enter. And what we're asking is for women to be allowed to legally guarantee their right to consume it. Point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121173	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121174	Here, I thank my colleague, Glasovac, and I would also like to thank my colleague Mrak Taritash for his engagement in writing this conclusion and on a comprehensive debate. We will support this conclusion because we consider it right. We are not questioning the appeal of conscience, nor have we ever brought it, but simply the right choice. What I'd just like to add is that I've been doing some research on how it is in neighbouring countries. So in 2016, in Italy, the Council of Europe issued a notice to the Republic of Italy because more than 70% of doctors had a conscience call and women had problems with abortions, they had to go out of Italy and then the Council of Europe followed the situation in Italy. I hope it doesn't come to that in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121175	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121176	Yes, you're right, Italy was worse than we were for a time in terms of the availability of this public health service, which is also prescribed by law. There are some countries in the EU that do not recognise the right of conscience at all. Croatia has it. It has been there since 2000, and in good faith it has also been incorporated into some health laws. However, from the very habitat of this right, it should have been very clear to all and it has been emphasized that we must not sacrifice one right to the care of another, especially the right to be primary in the health system, which is the right to health and the right to medical, medical and health protection. And there was actually a problem and a degeneration of the consumption of this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121177	Thank you. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121178	My colleague Glasovac, I am ashamed that we are getting paid as parliamentary representatives at this point for the salary provided by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we are discussing how to force the ruling ministers, all those who work in health institutions to obey the laws, just to comply with the laws. Plenkovic says that the director of a medical institution that cannot provide such an employee who will exercise women's right to choose is obliged to hire an external co-worker or doctor, says Andrej Plenkovic and sign it. So I would be interested in the directors of institutions, institutions in Vinkovci, Nasice, Virovitica and Požega when they failed to carry out their obligation that Plenkovic had, whether 3,000 kunas paid the average cost of abortion out of their salaries, women, girls who required this service and had to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121179	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice. Thank you very much, don't. Let's agree that we won't exceed the time, it's been eight hours, there's a lot of people registered for and on behalf of clubs and individually, and everything, if everyone goes 7-8, 10 seconds it's going to be very much, we're going to stay long, and I think it's more important for everyone to discuss constructively, not to exceed business limited time. Honorable representative and vice president of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121180	Of course not, it would always be and will always be paid from taxpayers' money. In the case of Cavida, a painful case where she ended up winning in some way, I'm not going to say that to win, it can't be called victory at all, but its right in another country just because it's got the strength and the courage to go public with how the health system is being experienced, the same health system that was supposed to protect this one. Eventually, it ended the way it ended. If she had decided to sue the Republic of Croatia, the institutions that passed the law did what they did, she would have certainly won the dispute, as well as the lady in Osijek who was deceived that she had been operated to get out of the hospital still pregnant. These penalties in these judgments, regardless of whether before the European Court of Human Rights or here, would not be paid by unconscious individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121181	Thank you. Dear representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121182	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here's to supporting what you've been saying, and all of us and what we're going to say. Take care of this, so the International Association of Gynecologists and obstetricians of FIGO has brought its Resolution on Consciousness in 2006, it clearly states that doctors have an ethical obligation at all times in every patient they care about to benefit from and prevent harm from doing, then that providers are obliged to inform patients about all medical opportunities for their health care and respect their choice, autonomy, as well as patients' rights to timely access to medical services. The resolution confirms that doctors have the right to respect their conscience and in the context of not undertaking and undertaking legal services, but that it is the responsibility of experts to adhere to scientific and professionally established definitions of services in the field of reproductive health rather than to mislabel them on the basis of personal beliefs. Also a series of instructions that stand with us what to do when someone won't and won't give the patients their hand, and ours are aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121183	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121184	Yeah, you actually said everything. If the state respects someone’s right to believe in life according to their personal or religious beliefs, it must also respect the patient’s right to health care. If we are talking about a health system, we should never talk about whose right it is stronger and whose right it must never suffer in that health system, so the state must ensure that the patient never suffers in that system by respecting this other right, how it will do so is her problem, but we have another problem that the state says that it does not intend to edit it, it does not intend to interfere at all, but continues to observe the situation as it is. It's the defeat of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121185	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121186	Thank you. In this response that Mrak-Taritash received from the government, it is said that if the director is not able to carry out the pregnancy termination procedure at the request he has to hire an external associate, so I ask the question whether we need in hospitals that are financed by public money, I am not talking about Catholic hospitals that can finance hospitals where there is no abortion on demand, can we justify this outsoring which will again be a form of money loss of public 460 million kuna per year, meaning the Ministry of Health signs a contract with private hospitals for various services that could be performed in public health, not obtaining devices to be exorcised and to be granted private, but now we will still have the meaning of conscience negotiators in public health, but we will engage them in private abortion in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121187	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121188	Yeah, I see what you're getting at and have it, that makes sense. Now in some hospitals, the problem is being solved exactly this way that you say outsoring that in fact from, in those hospitals where all the collectively called consciences are engaged an external expert from another closer hospital that comes to a certain period and performs these services, but I think we should think about some other models of how to ensure this stability and continuity to avoid this, this outsorbing because this is not the best possible way, but it should be seen and how to ensure that they know the exact rules of appeal of conscience, rather than that people who are guaranteeing you the provision of this service are entering the system, and that they later come to the call of conscience which you are again in the initial position, means that such mechanisms should be provided to ensure this service by respecting this right of conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121189	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121190	Thank you. Dear Members of the Voice, you said that according to the law, women have the right to terminate pregnancy, it is the law that gave them, and it is fine, I fully agree with it and it is normal and nobody wants to undo it either, but what you will not understand, just to understand, nothing to ask us, none of us, but as a doctor something from you that only understands us as doctors, which is that we and the Hippocrates' oath and the Geneva Convention tell us that human life should be respected from the very beginning, means no doctor really means if a woman is healthy, there means only if a woman is healthy and healthy fruit has nothing to do simply because it is a normal condition, it is not a disease, if any disease is done without any thinking, but here I am talking about only if she is a healthy child, is a healthy mother, then a doctor should not really do anything about all the rules of medical work, the law gives him a reason to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121191	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121192	I wish I didn't understand you, honestly, and I understood you, so you're challenging every doctor who does this kind of thing because you think everyone should actually be in the spirit of conscience, yes, yes, because, yes, that's what you said, so you said what I said. Unacceptable. [[Intruder: Please, please not from the bench.]] Medicine is science, and this would lead to that second agenda that an abortion should be banned, but you wouldn't stop another woman from making her decision to the end, you'd just lead her to do it either somewhere outside the state if she had money or if she didn't have money to go to the gray zone where you know that this very often ends in unprofessional hands and in uncertain conditions. I repeat, I'm not interested in the callers, but I'm interested in being a representative and a state official that the laws in the Republic of Croatia are respected. And that the ministry ensure law enforcement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121193	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121194	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is very necessary once again for those who do not read carefully the law or the proposal of this conclusion, or for those who deliberately or unwittingly twist what is said to be repeated, therefore, according to this proposal, the Ministry of Health undertakes that within the shortest period of time, and at the latest by the end of 2022, a sufficient number of doctors who are performing pregnancy termination at the request of all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the legal right of termination of pregnancy at the request is accessible, unlimited and unlimited. Why this conclusion? Because there's one theory, and there's one practice. We have witnessed a violation of the Law on the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children as well as the right of women to choose. Therefore, according to the April 2020 data, it was not possible to perform an end to pregnancy on request or to get an answer at all to the question whether they were carrying out the procedure. What does the government of the Republic of Croatia say in the obvious? Therefore, they say that in the event that doctors are called on to legal right to appeal to conscience, each health care institution is obliged to ensure that pregnancy is interrupted on request or to hire an external medical associate of gynecology and obstetrics specialists. Hospital medical institutions are required to keep records of healthcare professionals who have called for the right to appeal of conscience. I have already mentioned in the replica we have listened to on the Committee on Health and the position of the ministry or government that I have now read, but also representatives of institutions usually those who have called on the conscience that it is the duty of the ministry. Well, it's somebody's duty. So we have a law that we need to respect and we have someone who's bound to provide it. The state will take over the hospital as such, so it will no longer be able to transfer it is responsible Zagreb because it is in Zagreb's jurisdiction, it is a responsible county because it is in the county's jurisdiction. Therefore, the Ministry of Health is required to ensure the conditions for the law to be respected. And if the gynecologist has voiced an appeal to conscience, he is obliged to inform the patient, listed in writing in his specialist report and in hospital medical documentation and to refer to another doctor of the same profession in that hospital health care facility. According to what the patients or women say, it's not happening, but we've seen each other in the case of the Cavid patient coming out, so here's how it works, right? Furthermore, as regards the SDP's position, so again very clearly and loudly. We do not dispute the right to appeal to conscience, but we consider it an individual's right, not to talk about the appeal of the conscience of the institutions and testify that this is a really big problem. We have also shown this in our proposal for a Law on Medical Procedure for Interrupting Pregnancy, which we have recently discussed, the ruling HDZ rejected it. So we do not dispute the right to appeal to conscience but we want the existing law to be respected. The following problem, and I will tell you later and in the debate what certain EU committees have shown that some have a conscience call in the public health system, and they do not have a private one. Furthermore, it testifies to the peer pressure on colleagues not to do in vitro fertilisation. Because of the call for conscience, some reject the birth of children who have begun medically assisted insemination. We heard 13% of the recipients say no. And once again, when it comes to conscience, so it's not just a legally arranged right to end pregnancy, it's also about oral contraception, about medically assisted fertilisation, in vitro fertilization. Once again, for those who turn everything around again, I will repeat what we have asked for in the amendment of the Constitution. Therefore, a woman has the right to freely and independently decide on birth, and the state provides assumptions for the exercise of that right. We had, we mentioned several times on the 10.6th Thematic Session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The discussion of the Institute calls for conscience, as well as the right to terminate the pregnancy that exists in our legislation, which is unfortunately not available as much as it should. It is a very interesting, interesting analysis of the 13th-century female lawyer, which is very detailed in a series of pages, argued that, which are legal acts which are binding, which are not binding on one side by the UN, the Council of Europe, the EU, the International Association of gynecologists and obstetricians of FIGO, which I have just quoted in the replica, our Croatian legislation. So, who define the way in which they are in certain countries of this one is the regulated issue of calling for conscience or the right to an end to pregnancy. And that's what we're going to do, actually later on, then I'm going to go into the details, but now I'm going to say what's being put on as some kind of flavor. So, what does the attorney general say? The appeal of conscience stems from freedom of mind, conscience, or faith. The appeal of conscience is not an absolute right but can be limited to protect health. The international justice framework, including EU law, does not require countries to make it possible to appeal to their consciences in health care, but, if countries decide to do so, it is adequate and regulated. I remind you that in our case, it is not at all disputed that the concept of appeal to conscience is regulated by the Law of Medicine in Art. 20, then the Law on sisterhood Art. 3 ct. 4, Art. 26 Law on dental medicine, Law on Medical Aided Insemination, Art. 44. So once again, we don't argue. However, the appeal of conscience is an individual right which as individuals can be used by healthcare professionals, which is the responsibility of the institution, i.e. the state, to ensure that calling for a conscience does not affect the entire institution or parts of the health system. So that's supported by a series of documents and all of these institutions that I've listed. In particular, says the attorney general, the appeal of conscience must not be an obstacle to accessing the right to health, which in practice is still happening. Speaking in the context of reproductive rights, this means that a woman must be given timely and complete and understandable information on all her rights related to abortion, as well as timely access to the law guaranteed by the right to abortion, regardless of the fact that healthcare professionals who call for a conscience. In practice so far, according to the Ombudsman, it is evident that the right to abortion needs to be changed in the way of calling for conscience, including more detailed regulation, in order to ensure that healthcare institutions allow for abortion and when all employees are called on to call for a conscience and to prevent abuse of the call for conscience. Once again, the attorney general points out that everything she supports has a different legal force, it is important to distinguish those who are legally binding than those who are not and certainly necessarily refer to the hierarchy of these all legal norms, but the taste of everything she has listed in this summary that I have read to you is exactly what I have told you. It is particularly interesting that the UN Special Reporter on Health said in 2017 in Croatia that the excessive use of the legal option has limited the access to a safe abortion since it is called by half of the doctors in public health, and that, although the law provides for individual refusal of health services, they are in practice happening at the level of the entire institution. The special rapporteur also pointed out that part of doctors who are calling for a conscience at work at a public health institution are carrying out abortions in private practice, which raises their motives for raising their conscience. He also stressed that the rights to sexual and reproductive health are human rights and therefore regressive measures that hinder access to safe abortion and contraception undermine sexual education of a suitable age can result in human rights violations. So a series of documents, a series of these special rapporteurs and specifically on Croatia and other countries, recognized what theory is, and what is practice. And once again, we do not dispute the right to appeal to conscience. I will talk in an individual debate about that this is not at all a world-class question in terms of you, you're believers, we're all non-believers, that's not the point at all. The point is whether we will respect the law and enable women to be entitled to a service defined by the WHO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121195	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121196	You'd be surprised that everything is a secular and political issue. This is the conclusion that a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash referred to in the procedure reminds me of the conclusion I proposed to the government where I ask that the salary be worthy according to article. 56 The Constitution, which the Government gave me a negative answer. So there are no limits, so you have the constitutional right of workers to live with dignity of their wages, and you have the right to do so, as HDZ would say, you want to make an effort to conclude that this is how it should be confirmed, and then the government answers you that you need to reject that conclusion. That's about it. So legally arranged women's right to abortion the government rejects meaning with this answer. It's nothing new, is it? But I would like to warn you of a slightly different aspect of this whole problem, which has begun to collapse somewhere in the public, regarding our initiative of the progressive opposition to return to abortion in the Constitution. Many have responded well, but how do you think to return women to abortion, by returning it right to the Constitution if there is a law that determines this right for women so it can't be consummated and that's what I want to stress here, that somewhere the initiative of the Workers' Front when we went, means that this return to law for, to abortion in the Constitution was, not only does it mean because of ultraconservative associations and attacks, meaning some ultraconservative right that threatens always means to the worlds that we have been able to hear here, it means that life is from conception and that it can't be achieved by the wife's right, so we're sorry, but women can't achieve this right, is it, but what we wanted to stress with this initiative and what the fact group of fact means that the first thing started to start to point out with their initiative to return to abortion in the Constitution, because it's already denied today's the right of women. We do not have to fight against the futuro of these attitudes, meaning that some barbarian Bartulica and Markic will come and ban us from abortion, but unfortunately the right to abortion of women has already been denied. And as that happened, it wasn't just because of the right conservative worldview, but with the assistance of the medical profession and the health administration. So for the first time, the right to appeal to conscience is introduced into the law in 2003, Andro Vlahusic introduces it and then defines the right to appeal to conscience as the right which means every doctor and who refuses to conduct a diagnosis of treatment, rehabilitating patients for his religious, ethical and moral reasons, with the restriction that this right does not conflict with the rules of the profession and that the decision does not endanger the health and life of the patient. So the lights are on right away. It is precisely applicable to abortion because there is no threat, whether, as we have heard from this argument here, it is not a threat to the health and life of a patient with the short life of a right that really falls within the fundamental human right, which is the right of a woman to self-determined and the right of a woman to free her own body, and that is the moment when unfortunately she enters this right completely unlimited, maybe some fences should be placed, maybe it had to be defined in some way that right would not be lunched with the right woman for free decision, but it's not all, of course. A series of these elements that led to women practically in Croatia where 60% of gynecologists can't perform an abortion, so if we're talking, we'll just mention KBC Split where a gynecologist only performs an abortion of 34 or, let's say, Petrova, where out of 40 only 5 performs a gynecologist abortion, and one and another hospital is very close to the centers of power and are actually very close to the medical colleges and show that this is the right even means by some research and the medical faculty no longer teaches. So we have a lead, so I'm going to try to explain in the second debate the privatisation of health care and health care. Right orientations. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121197	The first replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121198	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Peovic, and now the valid framework we have allows the woman to have and decide whether to give birth or to throw away. If you haven't read, then read the bulletin issued by HZJZ which says there were 7 485 abortions in 2020, 2019. 7 687, 2018. 7 064, so abortions are done, there is a right, there are institutions, there are doctors and there are ways to do this. Life begins from conception, I don't know if you're ever were in a situation that... [[Thank you. Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121199	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121200	Okay, I'm not going to comment on this if I've ever been in a situation, I don't know which one, so figure out what... Yeah, if I was pregnant, I was. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. What's extremely important here, is when you name the number of abortions, to answer the question where is Mirel Cavida in that statistic? Where could this woman carry out her abortion? It means how many women she is. [[Intruder: Please let's not from the bench.]] So this woman went public and very brave and you know what she showed? Tens, who know, hundreds of others who have gone to Slovenia without it being made public, have discovered dozens of those whom God has and asks which ways they went to throw away, dozens of those who responded from the abortion, we have very low number of abortions in Croatia, of course, happy and your side, but for human rights and for the free choice of women, we are not happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121201	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121202	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Andro Vlahusic did not prescribe an institute of conscience because he is a conservative but because he is a liberal, so he believes that the state should not force an individual to do something fundamental against his own conscience, but you are not a liberal, so my question is that in a situation where one hospital has doctors who have an appeal of conscience, who also have private practice call of conscience, so do they stick to it, does the state then have the right, at least one of them make an abortion?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121203	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121204	Yeah, nobody really has any intention of making doctors do anything they don't want to do. But the question arises, so is it not necessary to build some kind of fence that in public health institutions paid with public money, there are gynecologists who.../incomprehensible/... that there is sufficient number of gynecologists who carry out the abortion? The UN CEDAW Committee gave you recommendations and noticed that the abortion was denied with us, that it is not available, that it must be available and that it must be free, that it will be more, I will talk more about in my next debate because it is extremely important, and that it may actually be the error of an argument line, it is extremely important that we note that this is not due to the light-view but really because of the relationship of public and private health, and that is why many doctors decide to appeal, call for conscience, and not some world-class view as it is often thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121205	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121206	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. According to the data, 73% of respondents in Croatia oppose abortion bans, and 86% of people are at risk of stopping pregnancy if it threatens their mother's life. That's the data. The second thing, I'm stressing again, is what we wanted to introduce into constitutional change. So a woman has the right to have a free and independent birth decision. The State shall provide assumptions for the exercise of that right. And again, I'm saying we didn't say anywhere that it was just an abortion, a murder, or I don't know what it was, but a birth decision. So there are several methods here and including some other methods of removing conception that do not include these IVF, MPO or oral contraception AB, etc. I asked my colleagues from the ruling let them define precisely which article of the Constitution clearly states that it replaces what we are looking for. We have verbally communicated that they are calling for Article 35 but this is such a general article. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121207	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121208	Yes, otherwise, when we've lied to this formulation that we're going to enter into the Constitution and we believe that we're going to be able to bring it back into the Constitution or return it to the Constitution, then we've taken two sentences. One sentence is from an existing meaning of the '74 Constitution. that a woman has the right to have free birth choices, and the second is what the Slovenian Constitution added, and kept the first sentence, that the state should provide preconditions for the exercise of that right. HDZ is usually meant in an argument that is very strange actually the argument of calls as it is already in the Constitution calling for Article 35 o, which actually defines some autonomy or freedom, but absolutely does not define women's right to free birth decisions. And it's interesting that if so, if that is the right already embedded in the Constitution then why don't we return that article that was, which is the difference I mean if everything is already said, if we have the law, etc., but it won't come back Because the attacks started when he was expelled. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121209	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121210	Fellow Members of the Parliament and other colleagues, let's take a look around this hall. Where are our male colleagues? Two on the other hand, thank you fellow Fabianic no, not just arrived, eagerly defending the right to appeal to conscience. So this picture shows that women are very hard to break through a Croatian legal system that guarantees something on paper, which denies it in practice. These are invisible rights, such as invisible women, and especially when faced with problems. And today we are talking about these very women who are in trouble and we are saying that the system is denying them something by breaking their Constitution and laws guaranteed rights. And when we say women can't get the health care that belongs to them on this side, do you know how many women have made an abortion this year or last year, as if abortion is something that's a shame? That's how you set up the rhetoric of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121211	Dear representative Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121212	Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic. It's no coincidence that the term of the appeal of conscience was introduced, so that suggests that the one who commits the abortion has no conscience, is it, so it's secular, it's ideological, it's the attack on the one who does it. But when these figures are quoted, I think we're really here and we're really united in one very important thing precisely because of those women who are quiet, who don't have their own voice, which we're all here on this side now, who are often very weak social status and who don't respond to what we'd like to show on this side, there's too many abortions, they've dared to create an abortion and it doesn't go into that statistic that's listed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121213	A colleague, Fabianic, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in, and who hurt him?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121214	I have to apologize in advance, but I'm only now here because I was in the protocol at the Slovak Embassy, and I'm here to sign up for a debate, and I'm back and I'm here. Therefore, let the pure colleague Oreshkovic not worry about me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121215	Thank you. I have to warn you about this, but this replica has a respected representative, Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121216	Thank you. Dear fellow Peovic, it bothers me little that you are not telling the full truth when you talk about some of your views, now that I am not going into these little partisan attitudes and good things, but rather, you are saying this, the right to freely be made available to my own body is being denied. It's a lie, so no one touches your own body but the other body you won't admit. So that fruit that's inside you, that's what the problem is. You're not the problem, your body, who touches your body, but the fruit is in you. That's what the problem is. And secondly, when you talk about Mrs. Chawidi, you can't compare it here with the abortion, it's not an abortion, it's been 27 weeks of pregnancy it's already a murder of the foetus that could have survived regardless of what might have been a malignant disease and what wouldn't survive, but it can't be abortion, it can't be then, it has to be born or someone has to do it to her... But it's not then, then, that's what our people don't do... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121217	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121218	In a kind of perverse way, I have to say that we're glad to hear attitudes like this here because it illustrates what we're actually fighting with. Watch out for a woman who had a child with a massive tumor, respecting the right to have an abortion, and you actually call it euthanasia. That's terrible. But it illustrates what we are facing and as far as I know you are a colleague Karlić doctor if I am right, so women in Croatia are facing it. When you say it's a fruit, it's life, then I ask you, what is a woman who bears that fruit? Is she an incubator? A female? What is she? No, she's a woman who has the right to decide whether to be a mother or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121219	Please, let's go, let's go, please. The Honorable Stier has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121220	The Honorable Vice President was injured by her colleague, Peovic, imputing a colleague, Karlovic, to have demoted the dignity of women he did not indeed do. What counterpart Peovic did, however, is that she has demasticated what she thinks of the appeal of conscience. She herself said here and the name of the conscience ideological means that those who do not have a conscience have no conscience which, of course, is not true, but shows that the intensity of such a conclusion is nevertheless or it is difficult not to conclude from these words that it is not an attack on the call of conscience at least from what counterpart Peovic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121221	That's this, that, that was also a replica, so you get a warning. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mladen Karlic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121222	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in order not to get the impression that I am against women, that I am against this mother or something of course not, I support and believe that only this, this proposal, is the conclusion of Mrs. Anke Mrak-Taritash I don't think it makes much sense and that we're doing something else here right now, we're not working on this conclusion, he's maybe just a cause, and we're actually talking about something far more serious, right? So I think that this, however, is one pressure on the Ministry of Health and an attempt to get the Ministry of Health, and also doctors, because of their call to their conscience, to sort of press that, to have some different attitudes, to do something that someone wants, which is progressive as the opposition wants, or left, I don't know exactly what this one's called. It would also be more logical to me than a colleague who is not a doctor to perhaps draw some conclusions or, perhaps more, ask us to ask Croatian healthcare to obtain as many cardiologists or mobile devices as possible for... Or, or for an electric shock heart because over 7.5 thousand people are dying of heart attack, and no one's worried about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe here in this assembly there should be an electric shocker somewhere to save someone before they might need some kind of pregnancy break or something. So I think that, if we were to go like this, that everyone was an architect, a lawyer, I don't know an engineer or someone decides what, how he would impose on the Ministry of Health or the government that they're going to make, I think it's a little bit inconclusive, and if someone were to do that, then it could be just, just possibly possibly the Health Committee, no one else, and that we're writing conclusions about anyone who imagines and thinks that in particular, at this time when 350 and some gynecologist 164 are doing pregnancy terminations, and only 195 doesn't work, and we have everything, someone said 7.5 thousand a year, so that they have 10 and it's 20 a day, 164 gynecologists can do 20 pregnancy breaks a day regardless of whether they're medically indicated due to some condition, disease or, or were completely healthy persons... What I want is what my colleagues probably don't want to understand, they don't want to accept, which is that we doctors think a little differently or maybe not all of us, but one big part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just going to read you something, a few sentences so just to understand me means no, not that I want to do something, I don't want to be some Taliban or I don't know anything about an ultra-right person or I don't know what. So experts in the field of medical ethics in their joint opinion say that medical profession, that medical profession is actively involved in planning pregnancy counseling, education, methods of contraception. The progress of medical science and the professions of doctors are active in the various treatment procedures of reduced fertility and medically assisted fertilisation. As far as pregnancy is concerned, the medical profession or gynecologists are completing spontaneously started pregnancy terminations, and according to the legislation of a particular country performs pregnancy terminations according to the provisions of a law that is in force, means only according to the law that each country means otherwise, because, Malta, I don't know Poland is so impossible, and here, it's also, in America, so it's not medical, it's legal, the law has determined whether it will work or not. According to embryological science, why am I telling you this, why do some doctors have a conscience appeal? So the doctor will, surely, watch a lot of gynecologists ultrasound, because now these modern ones that are in color, which are dimensional, see everything, so already at the 21st week after conception the first heartbeat occurs, after 4 weeks the entire embryonic circulation of the blood was established, at the 5th week of pregnancy the brain starts growing rapidly, and at week 7 the first spontaneous movements, from the completed 8 weeks of conception the embryo has the following features, recognizable human appearance, developed limbs and basic internal organs, expressed internal and external sexual characteristics, means that the gynologist sees it at the time when he can still make that pregnancy break. That, that's what we doctors see, you do, you can't see it like that, of course. And that's why it means exactly the point of medical ethics about the beginning of human life, it's directly or indirectly about a Geneva medical oath that says that I'm going to respect human life from the very beginning, and that's why you can't judge or attack those people who have this call of conscience, who may have seen this, who, who have done this maybe, so now at some point can't do it anymore. Therefore, I think we should understand this because from a medical point of view in an ethical and professional aspect, it is said by experts, so not me, there is no excuse to stop the pregnancy of a healthy child at the request of a healthy pregnant woman as regulated by Article. The 15th law. In conclusion, the medical profession is defined by its professional tasks, which are prevention, diagnostics and treatment. In the abortion of the healthy fruit of a healthy pregnant woman on her request there are no of these qualifications, and the problem is entirely in the area of legislation, so our legislation has approved it, so it has not been abolished, we have the right to do so, women have the right, gynecologist has enough. Whether in some hospitals, and that's a few of them that don't have any, but they have because exactly as it says in this response from the government, means every hospital and director has an appointment, or a gynecologist will come to that hospital, so they're going to make that pregnancy break or the patient goes to the next hospital, so they're going to do it, so there's no problem and there's no problem, they can be individual problems for some reasons that a doctor or a doctor makes wrong, and everyone can make a mistake as well as in any profession, but some things, or 99% of them are done by all the rules, means by law, and I don't think there't be any reason to accept such a conclusion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121223	And now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121224	The colleagues Taritas, Glasovac, Marić, spoke in this debate during me, very, very professionally and reasoned and on the legal side not only medically, but technically, so that I do not repeat them now, and I can congratulate them. But for the sake of the public, because the greater the number of our citizens, the better they understand what this is all about, the easier things are going to be. And I think that the possibility of doing one medical service should be spoken in the context of one bass, if you remember the bass about birth and fox when they went to visit each other, so the fox served birth in a plate, the stork couldn't eat it because it had a tall beak, and then it was born in a tall jar. That's what it looks like with this dichotomy of the right to appeal to conscience and the right to medical termination of pregnancy. What's all this coming from? When we talk about judicial reform, it is a lot of good ideas what it is that administrative structurally should be done, but no one utters a sentence that the main health reform is its depoliticalisation. Moving the political half-trons from the steering functions. Political half-trons. For example, one Chorusic. How did Chorusici become masters of life and death in the first place? How did it come to court political and church wills, not doing what they were paid for as public and health workers, is something that we really all need to ask ourselves together. Because all this time and this is seen in this debate HDZ actually implements one political indoctrination of its own but also of its clerical views. And let's get that in touch with the previous agenda point. We discussed the necessary amendments to the Constitution, and I, like many other MPs, spoke about the fact that the Constitution simply does not live in practice because, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is secular. And since we've been from a secular state that's supposed to exist in the past 30 years, it hasn't come to the humiliation and degradation of women in this way. And it's really embarrassing to hear in this assembly that some MPs say that we, we who advocate abortion, which, of course, is not true, do not respect that life that is born in the womb. And I ask you, do you honor the life that arises after someone is born out of such an womb? Do you respect a woman for the start that child was wearing? Do you respect the woman who gave birth to a seriously ill child? How much do you help her get away with such a child? Ask the mothers who have a child with, say, some disease from the spectrum of autism. Ask mothers with any severe illness that cannot be treated in Croatian hospitals. Perhaps one day you could be treated on Srebrenica if you hadn't destroyed this project because of your selfish interests. And where are all the other conditions for raising children? Especially children from poor families. And in the end, all of this really shouldn't matter at all. The fundamental right of a woman is that she can decide on her body and her family. A woman not a third. And as long as we don't do it in practice, we're not really a state here at all. And here we may be talking this second about the right to medical termination of pregnancy, but I think we should discuss every other right, every other right that's just nominally on paper while fates are decided by some other circles. Dominantly clerical. And why is that? It is not really spiritual values, it is all the point and all the hypocrisy, but in the fact that it is the hand that washes itself, because while the sanctity of life is at the same time being discussed, this sanctity in the exercise is the most trampled. Because the same political party that's so tied up with clerical circles steals from that same people, but the church doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121225	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121226	Now, I'd like to talk a little bit about what I started talking about at the presentation on behalf of the promoter. So I would put little emphasis on the public and private attitude and the way in which the inaccessibility of the right to abortion comes in good part and privatisation, formal and informal forms of privatisation of the health system. So the attack on reproductive rights is definitely starting with the release of that article in 1990, and that's why it's really important to get it back. It's a real threat today because 60% of the gynecologists are conscience-seekers. It's totally unacceptable that we don't really have the information about how much conscience caller she is, and now she's a minister, so when counterpart Anka Dark Taritash asked a question, then one week, two later on in the Chavaida case decided to send a survey to all the hospitals to get feedback about how much conscience caller she really was as if it wasn't supposed to be the information that was most important, I think that should be known at all times. So research journalism has played a huge role here, and here I will highlight the texts of Natesha Škaricic, who has come up with this information that 60% of conscientious callers are in public health institutions. And this response received by a colleague Mrak-Taritash from the government is totally unacceptable to me, so any institution where the hospital director has no secure right to abortion means there are no workers who do, can or must even say outsort this right and if he is obliged to say engage, he is obliged to hire an outsider, so I guess he is obliged to monitor in what way he hires doctors and to follow them to start those who don't do abortions from those who do abortions or, I guess that would be a normal answer no, he says not that he is obliged to hire an external co-worker means that where this is all actually going, that short story means the thing was radicalized by a real public and private relationship. Two things are extremely important, except that we return this article to the constitution is extremely important to abolish double work, so the dual work of a doctor brings our health into the situation of corrupt practices means a suitable ground for corruption, it's a classic situation of corruption when you have a doctor who works in a private and public institution where we all know he's sending his patients to a private institution or stretching patients from a private institution in a public institution even though it means abortion can't be done in polyclinics, so for now we don't have so many of these institutions that can be hospitalized, in Zagreb you have only one that is Podobnik, we know that abortions are conducted illegally and in some offices, these are journalists to come to this information, but for now we don't have so many of these institutions that can carry out abortions that are private, but we also know that the high price of abortions somewhere from 3 to even some thousands of kunas in public health institutions are important to good food means to a private value in private situations, but the first of private practice, which are important in private practice. That's what Minister Beros was trying to solve, so it's just, it's limited meaning for directors, hospitals, deputy directors, assistant directors, he tried to bring in the head of the polyclinics, but it's not enough, it's simply not going to solve the matter. The second thing that is terribly important is to note that abortion must be free and according to the recommendations C2 means the UN Committee has given a recommendation that abortion is not only free of charge, but abortion should be free of charge because and because it has been treated as a commercial service, it has brought this service to the situation that in fact many doctors consider it not their task because it is treated by commercial service, so let's say something so additional, it should be one of the basic public health services, or it must be on the list of free public health services, so the Workers' Front has sent amendments to the two laws, so one is the Health Protection Act where it is abolished. 57., meaning which allows double work, and the second is a mandatory health insurance law where on the list of those health services that are free inputs means abortion, abortion should be free of charge and because it means we don't bring ourselves into a situation that's exactly grown on, to a huge extent that we actually have a situation where it's privately paralysed in public and it's not just a matter of abortion, we all know, say, the Medikol affair where the state deliberately doesn't get machines to exorcise it in some private company that makes a total figure of what was given to private health is enough to get a sufficient number of these devices. But here you have a very similar situation, so it's important to make the abortion free, and to separate privately and publicly with a surgical cut, and that's what seems to me to be important, along with what counterpart Anka-mak suggested with this conclusion, but also what SDP came up with its law, simplifiedly said, about the right to abortion that is in some way based on the law of '78. which, according to the recommendation of the Constitutional Court, was to be modernised, but certainly not modernised in order to modernise it, and it seems that these tendencies exist, which is that women are sent to mandatory talks, that women are treated as not quite legally capable, that they should be talked to first before they think about abortion, etc., so that is, that is, a series of laws that we all think should be changed and which are important to put into focus, not only in the constitution, constitutional change is now to end with what I started, however fundamental because it is the roof meaning of the constitution is a roof document, a document that we all manage to agree on, means this is an initiative and a left and a centre which shows that there are common topics on which we can co-operate and on which we have consensus, and all of course we have a consensus means a high percentage of people in Croatia, means that women think and that women have the right to choose freely, so we need to ensure that there is a single state in order to ensure that they are free and that they are free. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121227	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will speak the esteemed representative Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121228	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I will read again the text of this conclusion proposed by my colleague Mrak-Taritash for the representatives of Brkan, Karlic and Stier. The conclusion therefore states that the Ministry of Health is obliged to provide, as soon as possible, a sufficient number of physicians who are performing pregnancy interruptions at the request of all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the right to termination of pregnancy on request is accessible without restriction and without impediment. So in the text of the conclusion there is no mention of the appeal of conscience at all, just asking for compliance with the call law of the Republic of Croatia. Respect for the law. And I agree with my colleague Ahmetovic, yes, it is a shame that we must fight to comply with the law. So there are these two rights, women's right to free choice and the right to appeal to conscience, but one right must not be allowed to undermine another right. It is unacceptable to discuss which right is stronger or which right has an advantage or that, when it is debated about the appeal of conscience, it is already an attack on the call of conscience. Well, I guess we have a right to discuss it. So the government's main task, specifically the Ministry of Health, is to organise the system in a way that legal and secure abortion is possible in all hospitals in Croatia's territory, which is not the case now. And as we all know, there are hospitals where all gynecologists have a conscience call, and this is the case in 8 of the 29 hospitals in Croatia with which the HZZO have agreed to stop pregnancy on demand and the problem is that the Ministry of Health did not follow the trend of a sudden increase in the call for conscience which we have witnessed for the last decade, thus making legal abortion unreachable or difficult to access and, as counterpart Mrak-Taritash has already said, there is no record of the number of doctors with an appeal to conscience or rather, we now see that they are not all equally available to us. That's not even available to us. The role of the Minister of Health is to ensure that the appeal of conscience does not prevent the availability of legal health care or to implement standards which would clearly articulate the obligation of the State to ensure that the call for conscience in practice does not prevent the availability and accessibility of medical services. To ensure supervision and monitoring of practices and to seek responsibility for those who do not comply with the standards. Health care institutions in the framework of public health cannot refuse to provide the law of the prescribed medical service and are obliged to employ sufficient staff who are willing to provide all the services necessary for reproductive health, including termination of pregnancy. The fact is that the right to abortion is guaranteed by law, but it is also the fact that the right is inaccessible to many women, primarily those poor and those outside the big cities. A colleague, Maric, has already quoted the attorney general as saying, but there is no reluctance on what she says on the subject of a conscience, so this right stems from the human right to freedom of faith. However, it is not in any international binding document as a separate and unlimited right and that is what is problematic when it is referred to as unlimited law. When we speak in the context of women's reproductive rights, it is limited in a way that every woman who chooses to do so, and has the right to health care, must receive that service. Therefore, the appeal to our conscience is present, as well as when prescribing contraception prescriptions, and even in the issue of contraceptives in pharmacyes, and the problem here is certainly to mention that sexual education is not yet present in the educational system, so there is nothing to do with education and makes it difficult to obtain contraception, and the result can only be an increase in unwanted pregnancy because comprehensive sexual education and affordable contraception can certainly reduce the number of abortions. And interesting are the parallel figures of Slovenia and Croatia, so in Slovenia, as we know, there are 3% of gynecologists with a conscience call, and in Croatia about 60% because we do not know the exact figures, but there is somewhere there. In Sweden, for example. There is no cry for conscience at all, and there are believers there, therefore the doctors of the believers. So it really raises the question of whether all the complaints of conscience are truly called to the conscience, and how much this social environment has led to the appeal of conscience. And one really serious and professional debate about the possible abuse of that right needs to be implemented and conducted. The right to abortion is not only the right of women to choose but also the right of women to health care. The ban on abortions really never, I guess, led to a reduction in the number of abortions anywhere, only exposed women to illegal procedures that often had terrible consequences, from infertility to death, and it is known that when Ceausescu banned abortion in Romania, the result was 10,000 dead women. So the government's imperative is that it must ensure law enforcement, which in this case means ensuring accessible, safe and legal abortion in all Croatian hospitals, but also the introduction of sexual education into schools and the provision of available contraception. The follow-up to the elementary compliance of the law guaranteeing the right to a safe, accessible and legal abortion should certainly seek the right to a painless abortion because there are many and many testimonies that speak of the fact that abortions work live, without anesthesia, as if women are being punished and, in fact, threatened that it would not happen to her next time and that is why hospitals are obliged, how to ensure, that gynologists without calling on conscience, and anesthesiologists, because each woman has the right to be protected from pain. In conclusion, the Green-Left bloc club is of course supporting, it has already supported and will support and will vote in favour of the conclusion of counterpart Mrak Taritash, who wants us to repeat for five hundred times, only requires that we respect the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. Nothing more. And it is regrettable that such conclusions must be fought for the respect of the law in Croatia. So, we'll support this conclusion. We will support every initiative legally providing women with basic human rights and health care. Well, I guess we won't allow it in the 21st century to question the fundamental right of women to choose and decide freely about their own body and to return us to some dark times that we were sure were far behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121229	On behalf of, now, we are going to individual debates and will speak to the respected representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121230	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, why is it important to respect existing Croatian laws? Why is it important to fight for women's right to choose? I don't think it's time to go down with my shoulders in style that's none of my business. We've all seen well recently what's going on in America. The women's move to wash away the conservative majority of the Supreme Court reduces the right to choose the birth of decades old. Already in certain federal states, the freedom of choice in pregnancy has been abolished, which is one of the fundamental constitutional issues. As many as 73% of respondents in Croatia oppose the ban on abortion, and 86% of people are at risk of stopping their pregnancy if it threatens their mother's life. This isn't about ideological issues, or at least it shouldn't be about respecting the law or not respecting the law. Not all, as I have said, are believers on the right hand, nor are we all on the left hand of the atheists, but they may be surprised, nor do any of us propagate an abortion. It is a difficult and painful decision for a woman, but none of us know what life brings, a serious illness, malformation of the fruit, an economically difficult situation, rape, don't condemn a woman when she makes a decision, she will carry out a ban on abortion which, either between the lines or very clearly, some colleagues are practically saying that she should be introduced. It is therefore a health procedure that is also defined by the World Health Organization. Even if we would never personally make a pregnancy stop, there must be a right to choose. No one orders a woman to give birth at all costs, and then the state has a distinct maternal relationship with parents and children with disabilities. We have witnessed this recently at a thematic session of the Committee on the painful stories of mothers with severe damage to the country’s carelessness. It is clear that in the Republic of Croatia the termination of pregnancy is regulated by the 1978 Health Measures Act, we have already spoken several times what the Constitutional Court ordered in 2017, within 2 years, to pass a better, more modern law. The HDZ has persistently rejected it even though most of their voters support women's right to vote. The SDP recently offered its bill, but HDZ rejected it. And on the basis of Mrs. Cavida's brave recent move and other testimony, it has been shown that in Croatia, women's rights are very perfiduously denied to choose through non-compliance with the legal rules and by preventing the provision of health services in many hospitals throughout Croatia. There's a colleague in my hospital who has an appeal to consciences the other nine don't have. How's Pula, Rijeka, why isn't there a problem? Why is the problem of Split, the Holy Spirit or any other institution? I'm going to share with you everything we heard or at least a fraction of what we heard on the aforementioned Health Committee 10.6. when we talked about the appeal of conscience. And now you have a colleague who has had a conscience call for 20 years, says that five-year gynecology specialization includes 125 competences and in practice doctors perform only some of them and a major problem is the lack of gynecology specialists. We've heard that 61% of residents have a conscience call. They've got to get through everything in their special training. How do they get the signature that they did the special? The other thing, the problem is the lack of gynecology specialists, missing them in hospitals, missing them in primary health care. Here's an example of integration, no secretary of state, one who, a hospital doctor, has a conscience call, doesn't want him working at the hospital to help out in primary health care where there's no abortion in the office, and one who doesn't have a conscience call in the primary health care department to help out at the hospital. So here's a wonderful integration or a solution. The second thing a colleague said about women having a right, so they're exercising all her rights, so that's not at all controversial. So you actually have a couple of totally weird opinions. In addition, counterpart Celic said there that the feticide procedure is conducted exclusively in Slovenia, Great Britain, the Netherlands, I am telling my friends at sea I am meeting from Serbia, my colleague gynaecologist says that this is done by the installation of potassium chloride, so this information is not correct. So our health care system must provide a health care service, and we do not touch the right to a conscience call.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121231	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121232	Here's a thank you. Comrade Maric, and I will begin with your words that you have finished. So we're not discussing the appeal of conscience here, and I'd like this debate to distance itself from it because it's not a topic. The theme is that we have to afford all women in the Republic of Croatia the health care law and we need to talk about it tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121233	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121234	I couldn't agree more, but we can't separate those two things. You have seen that, of course, colleagues on this side are constantly trying to impose this on me, in fact, being directly here, which we are indirectly trying to overcome the appeal of conscience. That doesn't say that at any point in any sentence. So it's very clear in this conclusion how many, a few lines, right? So it's the duty of our health system, or the Ministry of Health, which at the end of the line gives money, limits to health institutions, and now you have a director, is anyone who doesn't secure the right to this service, hires an external associate, means he spends more money, that doesn't touch the Ministry of Health? It's all about them. And I've already mentioned, the word is, is, is taking over the state, the state takes over health care institutions, so if not before, then the Ministry of Health is exactly what needs to ensure this legal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121235	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121236	My colleague Maric. You're a doctor so more of them from some perspective of your personal, personal experience would like you to witness what was put here as a frame on the right, my right now, on your right, means that we should listen to doctors and that doctors think that life is more valuable than conception and more important than mother's right to choose. I deeply believe it's not the opinion of most doctors. Everyone has a right, of course, to their own opinion, but I certainly don't think it represented some kind of general opinion of a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121237	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121238	So here's the deal. As far as this question is concerned, so in no country at WHO level, at the level of any other legal norms, it is not 100% defined to be precisely what, are colleagues counting so when the heart beats, and we know, we have listened to embryology and gynecology, progeny, when the heart beats, when this, when this, but none of this institution, I say, of the WHO further has come forward. And the other thing, colleagues who keep saying is whether, since life begins, so I'm not going to be able to express these attitudes at all because it's not a measure. So the point is that colleagues who have an appeal to their conscience criticise colleagues who do not have an appeal to their conscience and are actually a controversial health service defined by the WHO onward. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121239	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121240	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Maric, we are talking today about the Opinion on the obligation to ensure the legal right to terminate pregnancy on request in all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. I think we have this law and you said yourself that laws must be respected and laws must be implemented, right? It means that all hospitals need to provide a health care facility, so to speak, to stop pregnancy. So if this law is being respected, now there's a question, how to force it, here's really the way the state is because you're now asking the state to force these doctors, doctors, what to call them, that they have to do it even though they have a conscience call. Also, to be said when we discussed the Traffic Act, that doctors would have to report patients using those drugs, you said you were snitches and then when it was.../incomprehensible/... to be vaccinated against the crown [[Intruder: Thank you.]] family doctors are [[Employee: Dear Representative Maric.]] Refused. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121241	Dear representative Maric. Come on, let's not exceed the time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121242	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the Apropo Road Traffic Safety Act, the MUP finally realized how much he was lying and finally obeying what his waist and opposition told him. That's number one. Number two, a law that exists that is not respected in practice, so here is the gesture, so it's not being respected in practice. On the one hand you have the transfer of balls, what health care institution must provide, the director must provide, and on the other hand you have the Ministry which still has the authority over all health institutions regardless of what some are in, some are founder of the county, City of Zagreb or so on. So it's the health department's intelligence to make sure that this health care service is enabled, and we haven't told anyone at any time that we're forcing someone to give up their conscience. So you have the Law of Medicine, the Law of Sisterhood, the Law of Receipt, let everyone who wishes have a conscience call, but the health care institution cannot have the whole appeal of conscience. It's individuals. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121243	Dear MP Ahmetovic will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121244	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that we have a colleague named Karlic here here because it seems to me that somehow he would be the most invited to listen well to what I'm about to read, not say. Read it. And I want to read it because I want to quote it. Stopping pregnancy is a medical procedure, period. A pregnancy interruption is carried out at the request of a pregnant woman, period. Pregnancy interruption may be completed by the end of 10 weeks from conception, period. I think we're all written enough here, I think we're all reasonable enough here, and these microphones are doing pretty well, so those with reading problems could hear what I said, and I was just quoting the provisions of the positive regulation of the Republic of Croatia, more specifically the Health Measures Act to exercise the right to free birth decisions. It is just amazing to me, too, that in 9 and 20 we spend resources on reading the positive regulation of the Republic of Croatia and designing how to make people who receive salaries from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia respect the laws of the same Republic. I have to admit that I've never felt more foolish, and I'm sure all the MPs who support such a reasonable conclusion that it's suggested out of despair that in this country the only constant, constant is that the laws are not respected. That the laws aren't respected. And then says Prime Minister Plenkovic, in those health institutions where laws cannot be respected because doctors have a completely legitimate and legal appeal to a conscience that no one, but no one has to dispute, must provide external gynecologists with the legal provisions I quoted at the beginning. In Vinkovci, Nasice, Virovitica and Pozega, however, hospital directors do not respect the law. And what's the consequence? Zero. These people have no consequences because they don't respect the law of the Republic of Croatia. Nothing. Is that normal? I don't think so. And fellow Karlic, who here calls for the Hippocrates' oath, on his right, legitimately and legally, to have the advice to forget his oath in this high house that he will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic, and thus fellow Karlic and all those who dispute the legitimacy and regularity of this proposal for the conclusion of the opposition send a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, send a message that they are fools because they chose the people who lie to them. They lie when they swear to obey the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So all I can ask is, gentlemen, how are you not ashamed of yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121245	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the debate today is agonizing because women in Croatia are being written black. There is no greater value for every human being than freedom and dignity. But interestingly in Croatia, these two rights are never questioned in men, and women are questioned because how else do they realize that some people don't want to realize that any human being has the right to think about their lives and make decisions that they think are best for him or her at that time? There is no greater humiliation for any human being than to be treated as an object, and women are rarely seen as an object. In this case there's an object whose only purpose is to have a baby. I don't have a problem with that personally, and I believe that most colleagues and colleagues decide for themselves what's best for him. If a woman sees herself only in real life, in the role of housewife, mother, I personally have no problem with it I believe neither most colleagues nor colleagues. If a woman thinks she can live and wants to live without a man, I don't personally have any problem with that. If a woman doesn't want to give birth to me personally, I don't have any problem with it, I appreciate her decision and her freedom. However, I do not understand the need for a certain part of the people in Croatia to seek certain rights for themselves, and these similar rights are intended to deny others. We don't promote abortion, we don't promote abortion. We are in favour of entering Croatian schools education on sexually responsible behavior, on family planning, on the protection of reproductive health, on the protection of sexual illness, on teaching our girls how to avoid and this is the most difficult solution such as abortion. Secondly, there is contraception in the same way that it is protected from unwanted pregnancy, and if it comes to unplanned or unwanted pregnancy, we have no right to enter the reasons why a woman decides and sees it as the only choice but in that case we must enable her to be safe and under professional supervision. And I don't understand those who would ban abortions in parallel with that are anti-contraception, and we rarely saw it against health and sexual education in schools because these people with these three things actually say that a woman has to give birth at all costs and that it's her role and that it's going to be prescribed by the state, some of the chiefs of clinics, priests, the church community, it's unacceptable and it just can't go away. If you look at the number of abortions then you will see that 87.7% of women who opt for abortion on request did not use contraception, that the proportion of women using contraception between 8 and 10% depends on what research is. So what we have to do and build is a system of education and health care system, not in this way attacking fundamental rights and human rights of women.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121247	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash. Stay respected, Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121248	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, so today we're only discussing one fact, which is that we have a conclusion that the Ministry and the government are looking for their jobs, but they did notice one thing, the secretary of state came, he didn't say it on behalf of the government, he didn't say it, there he was playing on his cell phone and he left. We had a case when we were there the same, about the same term, the debate was about menstrual hygiene, that secretary of state said a few sentences, and he was embarrassed and then he left. This one didn't even get into a situation or say anything because it's a question that he could say at all, what should he say, what should he say from this pay phone, please don't accept that conclusion and allow the ministry not to do its job at all, and then the chief of staff, Mr. Plenkovic's supreme leader, signed it scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121249	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121250	And this departure and disenfranchisement is also a kind of message, he said, too, said Prime Minister Plenkovic in response to, or in a statement of your proposal, which is that the law will continue to be violated, that he will continue to be viewed favorably for breaking the law, that he will not be sanctioned and that the rights of the woman guaranteed and guaranteed by law will be only a dead letter on paper, and that is why we must insist that women's right to freely decide on the birth and obligation of the state to provide for her for the exercise of that right to enter into the basic document, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is our duty and obligation to all those women who have been victims of such conduct and to all those, the obligation to those not to be... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121251	Thank you. Dear Representative Erik Fabianic will speak next, please. Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121252	Yeah, there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121253	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would first of all like to praise this conclusion and the text of this conclusion for the reason that it is simple and inclusive, here is what I like to say and accept I mean to everyone who cares about this assembly and respects the law. So, this is not a matter of the constitution, not because we have seen that the law is not respected, let alone that the constitution will be respected, that is, what my mantra is, you know well, as well as deafening the constitutional court's verdict or the constitutional court's instructions regarding modernization or the modernisation of the law guaranteeing the termination of pregnancy, which was specifically written by counterpart Ivana Posavec Krivec, although, as I said in politics, there are no copyrights. It's so simple, so efficient, so benevolent that only an unreasonable person wouldn't, would not support such a text. And the fact is, I've warned you I'll keep warning, the question of objecting to conscience is an important question, it's really in art. Nine. The Charter of the Council of Europe, which treats human rights as well as in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Ten. The EU, the same charter, therefore, is not that it does not exist, is not that it is binding, it is interpreting, interpreting in the views that are related to the individual issues which bring this issue, whether the parliamentary council of this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe through its resolutions, but also through the acts of the European Parliament. But watch this, they are all delegating it to domestic legislation, someone mentioned Sweden that the objection to conscience does not exist because they did not put it in their internal legislation, Croatia has it in the internal legislation. Now we come to that sphere and society first of all unfortunately Catholic countries because that is the problem. In Protestant countries, the phenomenon is somewhat less escalating and now we have a dualism within the EU about what is stronger, whether the right to object to conscience or the right to, the public health service to break pregnancy, the public health service to interrupt pregnancy, as I said, is both bioethicians and lawyers who deal with medicine and who are doctors that the law comes first, and then the objection to conscience comes because, as I said, it is not just about stopping pregnancy, it is also about weapons. However, if the state prescribes the service of a military term of appeal to the conscience of weapons, it cannot be applied according to the European acquis. And that's a fact. That's why I was saying what would end up in this country if we had all objected to our conscience. There's no difference. There are other kinds of objections to conscience but all of it is united under one single cap. Of course, no one wants an unwanted pregnancy, and then they need to prevent it first. But what happens to us? Because if by county, we do not have it provided by the regions, Croatia will indeed be sued and sentenced and the law and conclusion and the Constitution will be mentioned and if there is no such thing in the Constitution and if there is no conclusion in any case we are really at risk of obtaining the verdict that Croatia will be convicted of because it does not provide what is prescribed by law. Well, now if we can't do it, I'm not into it, but it's really gonna happen, and it's gonna happen to you. What's the reaction? And that's the proposal that abolishs the objection to conscience. Because the objection to conscience has now become no longer something that is intimate, personal, but has become a de facto part of daily politics, which is for any condemnation of those who otherwise also object to the conscience’s defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121254	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121255	Thank you. Here's what I'd like to do first to question some of the arguments you listed. One of the arguments you have stated is that in Catholic countries it is a little harder to exercise this balance between the right to the health care of a woman and her reproductive rights and to appeal to the conscience of a doctor. Here, I'll give you an example. We're not going far to neighbouring Slovenia. Neighbouring Slovenia has 72% Catholic, Catholic, 3% Orthodox, 0.9% Protestant. At the same time with 72% of Slovenians who declare themselves Catholics, they have about 3% of doctors who have a conscience call in medicine on reproductive rights 3%. That's why I'd like to make another distinction here between the countries that manage to find that balance and the ones that don't, which is the distribution of the power of the state, the power of the secular state. Those countries that hold to the fact that the government is secular and that the public sector is secular and that it is equal for everyone, and that our religious beliefs are part of our beliefs that we have complete freedom, but I can't, so I can't be the way we regulate the whole of your sector. That's the kind of country that works. Countries like us who don't have a clear limit to what's public and common, and what's private like that can't do that. And that's actually where I wanted to give you some key argument by which I think we should come to a consensus on this issue. It's completely irrelevant that I think privately about having an abortion if I were to go, wouldn't I go, would my friend suggest it, wouldn't suggest it, it's completely irrelevant that you colleagues have beliefs about it, it's completely irrelevant what Dalia has, what's really relevant is whether we as Parliamentarians can rise above our private beliefs to see what's the best solution for the largest number of citizens and citizens of this country. That's the question. Not that we think it is best, but whether we can rise above it, ask them both in this dialogue with each other and with citizens to make the best solution for all citizens of this country. I think the best solution for all citizens of this country is that the issue of abortions and total reproductive rights is a matter of public health care. Don't worry, don't worry. That it is best for our citizens to be able to get care about the example of artificial insemination in our public health institutions so that it is equally accessible to everyone. Likewise, contraception, as well as counselling on family planning, equally gynaecological examinations, equally do not know urological examinations etc., etc. Just like in the end, the abortion. Because if it's not inside the health system and it's not available in every hospital, then we're going to get what's called the black market. And then women will continue to do abortion, but under uncertain conditions. And you know who will be responsible? It will be the government's responsibility, although any one of them is responsible, and it is responsible for the damage. And I'm really not going to ask you to start law enforcement anymore from this point on. From now on, I will begin to deal with finding funds for women who were forced to go to Slovenia for abortion, sue the state and seek compensation. Well, when you charge your compensation, then maybe after that, our conversation will look a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121256	Stay, stay here, we have two replicas, respected representative Fabianic [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121257	So the fact is that Slovenia is an exception, if we are talking about the structure of religion, however, the fact that it has this one, I am not rooting for anyone, but Slovenia really wasn't really on my mind, it was about Poland, Hungary, Italy that was a little bigger than Slovenia. But basically the formula is simple. The formula is simple. Look, if we consider that in the Rijeka KBC it is not a problem, that we have a secretary of state that we read today in a newspaper that is president of the board of directors, the same party is a colleague of the hospital, so the problem is to bring it from Zagreb, so let them explain to Zagreb hospitals how it is done? I mean, we wouldn't lose those hours when that fact is at the hospital level that he has to get rid of it. So why should we, because of the incompetence of the hospital administration, spend days and hours on the laws, on the constitutions and on something that should be... activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121258	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121259	I thank the chairman. I'd be happy to answer that. It's just that systematically, especially for the last 10 to 15 years, the hospital's administration has been seducing, the departments have been getting gynecologists who have been invoking a conscience and who have created an atmosphere that anyone who doesn't fit is not welcome. And now I'm going to give you an example of how you're doing it with people who don't have a conscience call, and they come into such an environment. You know what their colleagues tell them? If there's anything on your desk, we don't care, we won't help you. So you're the only one doing abortions. So you're the only one in that middle. Or be on the outside, and you know you're in an hostile environment where everyone's waiting for you on the knife. You understand? The atmosphere was created like that. It's not in the river. You know why he didn't? Well, in Rijeka, the atmosphere cannot pass before, among the citizens it cannot pass there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121260	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121261	Thank you very much. Comrade Bencic, I'd like a comparison. So today we've been in general all day until 6 p.m. discussing the subject and the need to open, amend the Constitution. I'm asking you why? Because in this conclusion, signed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, the government's position clearly stands, we don't have to obey the law, we don't have to respect the Constitution, we can't do it all together. So why were we discussing this together when it's irrelevant? When it doesn't matter, when something happens again, someone won't do it, and some present, future or anything, will come and say it, so it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter why. Well, that's some women out there. It's written here [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121262	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121263	Thank you. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you've really gotten into the middle of the problem. But why, then, does HDZ go to change the Constitution when neither the Constitution has to apply nor the law? Because citizens have to, because citizens have to, citizens have to collect now I don't know 400 thousand signatures to start a referendum and I can't come with 150 grand to negotiate as a payday, no, that's not working. Citizens have to stick to the law. It goes so far to you and it's not respecting the law by the state and the possibility of allowing this government to do so that they recently wanted to ban units of local self-government that for the debts of the state they could execute the state because the state can and it can not afford not to pay their debts and you can't do it. You can't do it. Because she obviously doesn't have to obey the law, citizens have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121264	She will now speak to a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121265	My colleagues and colleagues. All the essence of this debate can be displayed through two documents. One document is an indication of the government being discussed on the Committee on Health in which the prime minister says that hospitals need to ensure the availability of medical termination, and then the same government sends an indication of the proposal for this conclusion and says, "Don't adopt it, we don't need our hospitals to provide a sufficient number of doctors. So it can't be called hypocrisy, it's already a specific diagnosis. I talked about this diagnosis in one of the discussions very similar to what my colleague Bencic said before me, and the point is that our country is not secular. Since our country isn't secular, it's not health care and it's manifested in a whole series of problems. Starting with contraception and to medically assisted insemination, and then finally in this right to medical termination of pregnancy. During this debate there was also another problem and the continuation of this hypocrisy because HDZ will never openly say that it opposes the conduct of abortions, or it will not say that to ban abortions, it will not protect the right to appeal of conscience because they are very well aware that the social climate in the Republic of Croatia has not yet become what it was in the United States after the ruling of their Supreme Court, and I don't think even in America the social climate has become so conservative, it is not safe, but the political structures and church structures have managed to infiltrate their people in key positions, and we currently have it in the health system. And that's what needs to start changing and say whose country it is. And the only way to dissipate this problem, to cut that Gordian knot to simply say there is one package here with the constitution and the laws of guaranteed rights and the state is obliged to ensure and enable them to be implemented in practice, and that means that the same state should and must respect everyone's call for conscience, but there is no more to be done in public hospitals that are funded and paid by taxpayers' money than those who are able to implement the legal norms of the Croatian state, Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws. And repeat it again again as in one reverse discourse, the HDZ people should repeat it all, we respect everyone's right to a conscience, but as a doctor so let's take another profession, let's take, let's take a teacher. Imagine a teacher who will say, but I won't, I don't want to, it's simply against my conscience to learn a part of Croatian history, whether he can afford it, can't, and neither can the doctor tell me I'm not going to do something that my job description says that, if that's how we're going to respect his freedom of choice, freedom of religion and freedom of conscience as he sees it, but then he can't work in a public health institution and there's no further to it. Eventually, if any of the public hospitals truly ensure that a person can do his job fully, then we can hire other doctors if there is a need for it. And without privatizing any discussion, here I was one of the pregnant women who had a severe, severe, and very, very risky pregnancy, I was laid up for four or five months with those partialized under the constant threat of abortion, wearing twins, heavy, hard, hard, hard pains I got them. I must admit that I have been helped by gynecologists, some of them are the same gynecologists who are calling for a conscience, and I am grateful that I had their help, but that doesn't mean that the system that also makes it impossible for women with different life problems and with different life decisions that I can't achieve my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121266	Thank you. Honorable representative Ahmetovic has, has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121267	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Oreskovic, today we are discussing a conclusion that should allow hospitals where all doctors performing medical pregnancy termination procedures established by the law to have a conscience call to enable the engagement of an external associate, gynecologist or to hire a doctor who would perform such procedures because they are simply the enforcement of the law of the Republic of Croatia. Can you imagine that we would be in this situation to discuss, for example, that at some hospital all doctors have a conscience call when we talk about a blood transfusion procedure because they are simply members of another religious community, do you think anyone in this country would lead us to such a stage to discuss... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121268	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121269	So all the point is that the prime minister doesn't want to object to the church, and then his health ministers can't blame the church, and then he's going to say one thing, and then he's going to do something else in practice because what they're doing in practice, what they're actually pushing under the carpet, makes it possible that the moment they need it, that's the election, that's the campaign, that's the wind of the sermon that comes from the altar and that says who they're supposed to vote for, that's it. So, the state has to say what it wants in its hospitals clearly and loudly, so she tells us if we're going to have a clerical state and we're going to make a statement about it in the elections, but if we want hospitals that guarantee a health care package as it says in the law, then there can be doctors who can do such a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121270	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121271	Thank you. Well, here's what's really interesting is that permanent argument of the church. A particular church, and in Croatia almost 75-80% of the same people plead as Catholic believers, the church has clearly failed to convince its believers because it is 70% of the people and more in Croatia that the right to abortion must be legally available in hospitals. However, every time the church fails to convince its believers of something that is reaching for state regulation, and the nearest route is via HDZ, and we have seen it many times. There was one, one of your presidents who managed to get rid of it, one, the rest are never once. However, my question is why would it be relevant at all, why when it comes to health care, when we are responsible for ensuring it equally for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121272	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121273	Personally, I truly respect the church and sincerely respect every believer, and I must admit that I was extremely pleasantly surprised by the speech that we have had here for this payphone by a representative of the Vatican, I did not expect that such cultural and even lofty clarification between the church and the state and respect, mutual respect for the intelligence of one and the other, I do not know whether the Church in Croatia and the government in Croatia understood it because there are little differences here, and that should not be the case. There are other Catholic countries that do not have such problems facing Croatia, and I think that is why this machinery is supported in every election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121274	Honorable representative and vice president of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121275	A colleague of Oreshković, who is just being prepared for us in the healthcare system if we consider the fact that a year ago for the first time the Croatian Catholic University received a license for the implementation of the medical programme. First, with strong opposition from the Medical Faculty and negative opinion of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technology to get the same pass overnight under unknown circumstances. And now imagine the first, second, third generation of this newly established study, from which it will surely come out that only then will the health system look to us, and all of this is seen very well cut until on the other hand the state colleges do nothing to strengthen the registration quotas and service what society needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121276	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121277	I appreciate the question. A while ago, it seems to me that the Law School has introduced the Canon Law Department. So I have a relatively liberal view and on this point, I don't mind that in colleges, different colleges and in this way conducting training for some whether legal, whether medical branches, I think knowledge is always based on facts and that facts should be established and that from an ethical point of view all these facts should somehow be put into context. It's all right, but I'll go back to what the Vatican representative said about this pay phone. I believe that there is much wisdom in the Vatican to put certain things in the context of the times and centuries in which mankind lives. Church church, state state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121278	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121279	Thank you very much. Therefore, the SDP Club will certainly support this proposal to conclude that the Ministry of Health, as soon as possible, and by the end of 2022 at the latest, provides sufficient number of doctors who are performing pregnancy termination at the request of all authorised healthcare institutions in the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the legal right to terminate pregnancy on request is accessible, unlimited and uninterrupted. And it's really unclear what the problem is. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry transfer that, if doctors are called upon to legal right to appeal to conscience, every health institution or director is obliged to provide this legal, legally arranged service or care. On the other hand, health institutions, i.e. representatives of institutions, transfer this to ministries. We don't care about the ball transfer. We are interested in whether the legal provisions in the Republic of Croatia are respected or not. According to all that we've heard, they don't respect each other, so somebody's got to take care of it. That's why it's very logical that whoever has the key intelligence is the Ministry of Health. As far as we're concerned in the SDP, we don't have any problem with the appeal of conscience as one regulated under the Law on Medical Medicine, the Law on the SDP, the Law on Dental Medicine, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination and the Act on Insemination, and the implementation of Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but we point out that this is about the appeal of the individual's conscience. However, we have difficulty in speaking in practice about the appeal of the conscience of entire institutions. Furthermore, we have a disputed peer pressure on those colleagues who have no problem working on IVF, medically assisted insemination, abortion, etc. We also have a dispute, and we call for such things to be punished that some have a call in public health institutions, and they do not have private ones. Because of the appeal of conscience, some refuse to give birth to children conceived by medically assisted insemination, we have already emphasized that. And once again, the appeal to conscience is not only about abortion but also about birth control, medically assisted fertilisation and IVF. We have already quoted, but it should be reiterated that from the perspective of international law or human rights, the call for a conscience in health care can be protected as the right of an individual healthcare professional, but the refusal to provide legal services by healthcare professionals based on their faith or belief should not endanger the right to health care including the care of reproductive health, which is part of the right to abortion in the Republic of Croatia. And the state is obliged to provide this in a systematic manner and so that it really works in practice. I'm also going to call on the attorney general we've quoted multiple times, who's done a great analysis that you can hear here. Therefore, it detects that there are also problems in the way in which an appeal of conscience is carried out in the Republic of Croatia in health care and what the effects of this are in practice. It also underlines that the appeal of conscience is an individual right and so is legal in the Republic of Croatia and prescribed. From the perspective of those seeking a health care service, it is important how the summoning works beyond an individual doctor, how it is carried out at the level of the institutions or the entire health system. It also troubles the responsibility of the institution and the health system, or the state. The appeal of conscience in health care is limited to health protection and must not be an obstacle to access to the laws guaranteed by health services. It also underlines the need to improve the legal framework on the appeal of the conscience of healthcare professionals in order to ensure appropriate health care in due time. Also, the gynecologist’s gynecologist’s staff report underlines and what FIGO says, that is, this International Association of Gynecologists and obstetricians that I have already mentioned, even they say that there should be an official list of institutions authorised to carry out abortions, a register of doctors who are calling for a conscience and certainly defining the criminal liability of institutions authorised to provide health services, i.e. care, and do not implement. So things are very clear, this whole other thing we've been listening to is twisting the truth. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121280	Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak for her esteemed representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121281	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. So let me make it one more final repeat. The conclusion is on the obligation to ensure the legal right of termination of pregnancy at the request of all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. That's the conclusion. That conclusion concerns women as far as I know, a woman who can be, who is pregnant, so far I don't see any other possibility, refers to women. Therefore, this conclusion applies exclusively to women who do not have the same rights throughout the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, 72.8% of Croatian citizens support the right to abortion. That our fellow citizens, i.e. women in Croatia, have a secure medical opportunity to interrupt pregnancy, so the government would not explain in its reply what and how, but would say, a parliamentary representative, so you were in a frenzy. So what you've given us is unsuspecting. Well, that doesn't exist. So we have in all health institutions, everything works great, and all women have the possibility of breaking up pregnancy because this is not a debate, or the right to abortion, or the right to interruption, and the right to appeal of conscience. This is a debate about women having the same rights in the territory of Croatia, this is a debate to apply the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And now you get on, and now you're going to find that part of the assembly that decides to vote differently on a serious problem and for that you're going to have to have some appeal. I thank all those who have made it possible, all MPs and MPs who have allowed this to come into debate. Thank you for the discussion. But I must say, there will have to be an appeal that may be called Plenkovic's call. In his opinion, Prime Minister Plenkovic signed that the government is proposing to HS not to accept the proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure the legal right of termination of pregnancy at the request of all authorised institutions, and in his explanation, he wrote that this is really not being done in the institutions. Because if it was done, it would be enough cards and then we get to something called the text of the oath. All when we're all, no matter what strangers you belong to, where you sit and what you do, we swear. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. After that, each parliamentary representative, or each parliamentary representative, said, “I swear. ” With their vote, those who have decided not to accept this conclusion will actually be called by Prime Minister Plenkovic, that the opinion signed by Mr Plenkovic is binding on them and that it is stronger than the oath that we have all sworn in this conclusion and in this Opinion and this everything I am talking about. So we're not talking about the right to abortion, we're not talking about the appeal of conscience, we're talking about one crazy thing that we had to come up with to tell my people, respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And that there can be no Prime Minister, no government opinion stronger than the Constitution and stronger than what we have sworn to this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121282	We have two more replicas, a respected representative of Oreskovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121283	Comrade Taritash, here for the end, I will thank you once again for suggesting and forwarding this conclusion and procedure. We know that HDZ won't adopt it, and even if it adopted it, it would continue as usual, which is that it wouldn't do anything. But I am convinced that this debate was not in vain, although we are not being followed by the media at this time, but I think that the public is still hearing, I think that every speech about what our women are going through when they face the Croatian health system, one of these women is helping us, I think that women will now be more courageous, I think they will be more persistent in achieving their rights, and ultimately with some good organization, will unfortunately come up against the Republic of Croatia and lawsuits before international tribunals for violations of their constitutional and legal rights to change the government and to change the social relations between the state and the church structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121284	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121285	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreshkovic, I must admit that she would have been the happiest if she hadn't, that I didn't have to write this conclusion and that I didn't have to do it. She'd be the happiest for the reason things would work. It would be the happiest for women in Croatia to have rights as well as women in other parts of Europe. It would be the happiest because in 2022 we would not have to discuss something that I was convinced we would no longer discuss, but most tragically, the most tragic thing is that we are all discussing and telling Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Beros, please do your job. That's all. So please, do your job. 51% of the RS electoral body make up women Maybe it wakes someone up. [[Thank you. Dear representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121286	... A voter. And Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121287	Comrade Dark-Taritash. I also thank you for sending this document to HS. And you and I don't need to be discouraged by this attitude on the other side of the assembly, we need to fight hard and we need to fight hard for some things that are right and still. And here I am pleased that both colleague Ahmetovic and you have reminded yourself of the text of the oath that each of us accepted and swore in HS, with a small addition that the same text of oaths to the same is committed by both the Prime Minister and all the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually quite in part with this response that we received.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121288	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121289	Thank you very much. So our attitude is absolutely clear. It is clear what we represent, it is clear how we will vote, and it is clear how we treat our electoral body. And colleagues and colleagues from HDZ will have a slightly bigger problem. How those 64.3% of HDZ voters will explain that they do not respect what they think, but that they think differently. It'll be interesting to see how they'll be convinced by who in that old story, whether you believe my words or your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121290	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are going to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television; it is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Based on an article. 22 of the HRT Act would the applicant's representative further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honored representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121293	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On 8 July, the Committee on Information, Information and Media received a request from Dr.sc. Mark Primorac to be relieved of his duties as member of the HRT Supervisory Board. In accordance with this Decision, the HS Decision appointing part of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board of 15 December 2021, Zoran Barac, Dr. Sc. Marko Primorac and Damir Rudesh were appointed members of the HRT Supervisory Board. Dr. Sc. On 8 July 2022, Marko Primorac submitted a request for discharge from the CROMAC Board's responsibilities to the Committee on Information, Information and Media and discussed the request at the 28th meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media held on 12 July 2022 and, after the discussion was carried out, pursuant to Article. 22th century 8th subst. 1 The HRT Act unanimously found that the proposal for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to HS also made a decision, i.e. a proposal for a tender for a new member of the Croatian Supervisory Board, and it will be called, the deadline for applications will be 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-13-0.u121294	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, appeared. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. We have, we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Nino Rasdic called, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow on Thursday, July 14th at 9:30 and the point will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol with the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland, second reading, P.Z. No. 103. I wish you a pleasant rest of the night. Session interrupted at 22.16 hours.
