ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u82872	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, and I hope you have gathered strength and energy for the new session of the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, the Vice-President and other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". - I invite you now to pay tribute to all those who gave their lives for Croatia, all the deceased Croatian MPs and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence – Make it an easy Croatian country! Ladies and gentlemen, you received the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If no objection is made, we adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included 10 new points under regular numbers 1, 3 to 11 and 137. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will now be decided on a bill proposed by the Proposer to adopt by an urgent procedure. This is the point of the third final draft agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Act with the final draft law. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? In the absence of any comments, I note that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Since there are no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session or at the points proposed in the final draft agenda, the agenda in accordance with Article 227. The rules of procedure shall be deemed to be fixed. Let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u82939	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] The first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u82940	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, we all remained in shock a few days ago when the Croatian Bureau of Statistics provided information that there are only 3 million and 880 000 inhabitants in Croatia. And what did we expect to be maybe four and a half million? So that's the number we all expected. Some said it was going to be 3 million and 850, some 3 million and 950, but this turned out somehow between it means something less than 3 million and 900 thousand. And now the question is whether we are the exception or whether we are actually the rule of this Western civilization. I'll say we're the rule. For those of you who don't know, we have one term called fertility, or fertility rate. It is your fertility, or number of live births per woman of a fertilized age. Fertile age is mostly seen from 15 to 49 years, although it is much shorter in fact, it means somewhere between 18 and 45. So, according to that fertility, every woman should give birth to two children by some logic. But the demographics don't exactly agree here, so we have all kinds of data from 2.1, 2.17, 2.4 children, live births per woman. Everything below that is a natural decline by demographics. Croatia today has this fertility below 1.5 children per mother, i.e. the average woman in Croatia has only 1.49 children, meaning one and a half children, the average woman is born. Now where are the other European countries? Other European countries are similar to that, some crumbs worse, some crumbs better. It is similar to Slovenia, it is similar to Germany, it is similar to France, Italy. So all European countries have this diapazone somewhere from 1.4 to 1.75. This is where European countries move. Even America, I mean the United States has joined Europe, so even the United States today has two fertilities that are somewhere around 1.75. So what am I saying? I would like to say that this problem that is happening today in Croatia is not only a Croatian problem, but a global problem of Western civilization, the problem of all countries that fall under the auspices of Western civilization. For a small comparison of an African country, such as Niger, they have a fertility rate of over 7. So 7 children on average, live births per woman in Niger, for example. And other African states or some Asians also have those high fertility rates above 4. Now, I don't want to defend anyone here who hasn't taken adequate measures to solve this problem, but what you need to know about German fertility in Germany compared to the overall fertility of the Germans in Germany, or today, Croatia is worse than Croatia. What am I trying to tell you? Today, the average Germany is giving birth to fewer children than the Croat woman, and the small one, it is because of children born by immigrants. Today, 10% of your newborn children in Slovenia come from immigrants, immigrants to Slovenia. So, the indigenous Europeans, including the Croats, simply gave up their birth, the Germans gave up, the French also gave up, the Italians gave up, and the Croats gave up. And there's a problem with Western civilization. Unfortunately, with this problem of giving birth, we have a problem and emigration in the context of Croatia where then Croats and Croats go to Germany and have children. So the only way to solve this key problem not only Croatian, but the problem of Western civilization is actually spiritual restoration. Can the spiritual restoration be carried out by the government? He can't. But the government can do the part that it didn't do, which is social, economic measures, one real strategy, and then another strategy for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u82961	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Stipo Mlinarić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u82962	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Homeland Movement will comment on the 30th anniversary that was 15.1.'92 the other day. the year and international recognition of Croatia. I will show you in one plastic way that unfortunately there are two Croatians. I wrote on my Facebook page that day a text of blood and champagne. Unfortunately, she poured blood on Serbian camps, boys who were trapped by the fall of Vukovar or by being captured at any other part of the Dubrovnik battlefield to Banovina, Knin and elsewhere where all the camps were. These people welcomed Croatia's recognition of the terrible beatings where they beat us all night if we didn't know why. We didn't know why, if we had known, it would have been so much easier for us. but to pull the second parallel right away. From hundreds of miles from those camps where we were met at a camp in Nis and other passengers who were with me to Zagreb's Zrnivec where young and promising diplomats who are leading our Croatia today drank champagne, there we licked our blood, licked our wounds, and they drank champagne here. I'm sure with a moment of time, and when I see them running this country that they didn't think we'd fallen at that moment, even now I'm sure they think they're responsible for Croatia's recognition. Croatian defenders who fought on the first line are responsible for Croatian recognition, especially in '91. until Croatia's recognition. If it hadn't been for them, diplomacy would have had nothing to do, if they had come to Zagreb tanks, if they'd cut off how they planned with Virovitica, Karlobag and this nothing of Croatia would have happened, there is no diplomacy in the world that would have won recognition. Thanks to Croatian defenders and thanks to the Croatian diaspora, which has given great energy to lobbying all over the world from Australia from all continents to Europe in their countries where they lived to recognise the Republic of Croatia, they have put pressure on their governments. So the most responsible are Croatian defenders and Croatian diaspora. Unfortunately, we have two Croatians, those who are chicken champagne, they drink it today, they will drink it tomorrow, and these people who have fought, who have actually created Croatia one entire brigade has made a suicide. Then, with full law, I can do it in 2022. ask whose country this is. Of those who've raised their hand to themselves, it's certainly not, it's from the Zrnivec, unfortunately. So that everything that happened afterwards thanks Croatia's policy for not doing anything, has not done the most basic thing, nor has this Croatian diplomacy today that at least the verdict has been obtained that Serbia has committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia, the court ruling from The Hague, that war compensation has been charged, that compensation has been paid to campers, that at least what kind of justice has been achieved, unfortunately we haven't found our missing, we're still looking for over a thousand and some defenders of our own, we don't know where their graves are. So when I see all of this today, when I looked from that corner with people who started to create a state with which enthusiasm, with which pride, with which honesty after all came into that story and when I see where the story ends up falling to 3 million and 800 inhabitants, that we have been driven more by governments in the last 20 years. than the Chetniks made us during the Homeland War, when we see that politics managed to make one war mayor of Vukovar Vojislav Stanomirovic make Vojislav Stanomirović, who fought directly against the Republic of Croatia today better than the defenders who created the Republic of Croatia, to live better, to have a bigger pension than they, and it is said that defenders are a privileged group in this society. I think this example shows who's privileged and whose country this is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83026	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83027	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are, on January 14, the day the State Statistics Service came out with the first official census results. Unfortunately, what many of us were afraid of happened. Croatia experienced a demographic flood, or people said the results are to God for crying. In just 10 years. We have lost by all indicators 9.5% of the population as no other EU country in the peace period. In just 10 years. We lost almost 400,000 of our fellow citizens. These results are flat cataclysms. These results are a biblical flood in demographic terms, and these results are also responsible for this government and all previous governments and HDZ and SDPs and all their partners in the last 10 years because demographics have played their last hole. Right here we Croatian sovereigns have given a series of legislative proposals and amendments related to demographics and are all in turn rejected. Croatia does not today have a demographic strategy for the next 10, 20, 30 or 50 years. And what is even sadder is that you have Minister Grlic Radman who said a few days ago that he is happy and his children in such Croatia. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia because my first neighbor is 5 years ago. went to Germany. I can't be happy in this Croatia because my godfather has been in Denmark for years with families and two children. I can't be happy in this Croatia because my cousin is 3 years ago. went to Austria, a highly educated person and founded his family there. I can't be happy in this Croatia because my colleague left for Ireland only 10 days ago with his wife and three children. I cannot and must not be happy in this kind of Croatia as a parliamentary representative as our fellow citizens leave this kind of Croatia on a daily basis. And therefore, regardless of what is inside the party conflict, I believe that it is high time for national unity. I also call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to establish the Ministry of Demography and Immigrants, we have more of our Croats outside the country than in the state, and I urge him to invite all representatives of all parliamentary parties to a joint meeting with demographics in order to work out a strategy for Croatia's demographic reconstruction together to finally create a consensus. This is a beating point for the Croatian state and for the Croatian people either we will be or we will be gone and then everything falls into water and planes and Bradleys, to whom they will defend whom they will protect. Let us not let the blood of Croatian defenders and all innocent victims of war fall into the water because no one will be in this country for 50 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83081	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is today a lot of things we have in the current morning and here at the pay phone we could hear about demographics and think that we will all agree and more or less we are that the data that the DZS faced after the census is really defeating, and that they can agree with counterpart Pavliček and perhaps continue to list who went away somewhere outside Croatia because we all have friends, relatives, my own words, perhaps brothers and sisters who unfortunately decided to look further. But demographic policy is a little more extensive, a little more extensive and a little more comprehensive than perhaps some measures for newborn children than kindergartens, schools, etc. It also implies a perspective, it also implies faith in the institutions of this country, it implies an efficient judiciary, but it implies and concerns, the care of this country, the care of this government for parts of Croatia, for parts of the population, for our production, for our economy, and eventually perhaps a little banal, but not important literally what we eat. Namely, colleagues and colleagues of the east of Croatia, better known to you as Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, is also the most affected by this demographic disaster. The same East of Croatia continues to rely on agricultural production and additional industries, colleagues and colleagues from the 10th month of last year, prices of mineral fertilisers, seeds and protection products have increased more than doubled by colleagues and colleagues, some even more than double, triple, quadruple and five times the price. What does that mean for our producers, but then for our citizens? First of all, it raises the rentability of agricultural production, i.e. it raises the price of food. Of course, we are not self-sufficient, of course, that unfortunately we cannot produce enough for our own needs, of course we rely too much on imports, but colleagues and colleagues of this kind of movement on the market combined with bad weather, poor yield, catastrophic harvest almost in some cultures as we had last year combined with that, our citizens will literally be hungry. And why would he be hungry? Because they live badly anyway, because the vast majority of them have minimal incomes anyway, because a large percentage of them are already living on the edge of poverty, and when prices are rising, and prices are already rising, and according to this they will only continue to grow, the question is whether they will be able to afford the basic things they need for life. The government, on the other hand, and on the issues that we have raised through the media, including through the current morning, and then on the written questions it has not given clear answers to what measures will be taken to facilitate our producers’ food prices, or to keep food prices under some control. These are not questions that interest this government, questions lie somewhere else. The issues are the euro, the issues are the Schengen, which are of course important issues and we will probably discuss them later this afternoon, but it is crucial for the citizens to literally have something to eat. All of these things that I'm talking about are actually the result of a failed government policy that can't face the fact that it has the responsibility of easing the impact on citizens' living standards, either through taxes, whether through direct and indirect measures. In particular, if we are going to talk about mineral fertilisers, the state is still in the ownership structure of Petrokemia from Kutina, which is the leading producer of mineral fertilisers, it has an impact on the price of energy, but has the responsibility to help Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which are already the economic, demographic and socially best-skilled region of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83153	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83154	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. January 28, 2021 I told this speaker the following, more than 10 months have passed since the earthquake in Zagreb, and no single brick has been moved, not even hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros paid by the EU did not move a thing by a millimeter, not a single tender or public procurement has been called, and neither is it known when it will be, so a year ago. Two months later, about a year after the Zagreb earthquake, I said, the reconstruction of the public purpose building could have long gone according to the laws we have, with €683 million coming from the EU from the Solidarity Fund. Where's that money? No one mentions him at all, and he has a deadline to spend it on. Don't be lazy, I was talking about earthquakes and renovations at 6 months, and I said the next time. People who will live in containers for years, apartments that will not be restored for years, and if they are, they will only be thanks to those who will be able to do it alone. Those who will not live will live in ruins. The EU has paid us money to help rebuild buildings for public purposes, but it has a deadline of duration, as we have set off and that deadline will pass, and we will have to pay back. The 9th month at the beginning of the new meeting after the summer break, I reminded Mr Plenkovic and Horvat of the problem of money from the Solidarity Fund. And that's when I said, our government and our fund in 18 months failed to rebuild a single building even though it's worth €683 million in the government's account for the reconstruction of public buildings, I'm afraid that the reconstruction after the earthquake will only remain remembered once as the greatest shame for the people who run this country. When we discussed the rebalancing of the prime minister's budget at the 10th month, I also warned about the issue of earthquake recovery. Among other things, I said, instead of passing a law that facilitates work, which speeds up procedures, you passed a law that you yourself and renewed your leg. The European money for the reconstruction of public buildings has been on account since the beginning of the year and should be spent within 18 months. It would be a shame if we had to bring him back. At the end of last year, on December 15th of this year, I warned the minister and the government with the following words. It has been a year since the EU paid us more than 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund to rebuild public buildings, that money has a period of time, it should be spent by mid next year, and it hasn't even started and I've been talking about it for a year. Nothing serious started working with that money, and in the end, those who paid us money will say that we obviously couldn't spend it, so let's get it back. And that's just gonna be a shame about it. I don't want to think about it at all. And so on forever. Every month, two of me have warned and reminded our government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Horvat, your colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ that the money we received for reconstruction from the EU from the Solidarity Fund must be spent because it has a term of duration that expires in June this year. Every month on the 22nd of the month, I had a press conference on earthquakes and renovations and every time, every time I warned that the money was on the bill, that it should be used, that deadlines were passing, that we were doing nothing. But they didn't hear any of it, they didn't realize anything, and they didn't do anything. Why? They can't and they don't know. Meanwhile, the Union has paid nearly 2.5 billion kuna for the reconstruction of public purpose buildings in the area of Bania or Banovina, and I am now warning of it for the first time and I am already afraid of how many times I will have to say and warn. I've done my job from this pay phone, and I've done my job since the natural disaster. HDZ, Plenkovic and Horvat are not and never will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83230	The next club of MPs will be that green-left block, and the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83231	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues here are welcome in 2022 so we can summarise all the devastating, devastating results of HDZ policy we have had in recent weeks. What did we find out? We found out where we are as citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of 2022 and 30 years after Croatia's independence. We have learned that the ultra-successful policies of the party, which for 22 years the government led this country to the fact that in 2022 we have almost a million inhabitants less than that of the 1990s when we set out on that path of independence. If it wasn't just that bad news, the worse news is that this population deficit is not only due to negative growth or negative natural growth, but is largely due to negative migration and the fact that Croatia has left hundreds of thousands of young people over the past few years. And that's young productive people. And this time it wasn't just men like it used to be in the past, and the rest of the families, not everybody goes together this time. So we're losing two generations at a time. When you ask people why they go away regularly, they say that because of inequality, because of the privilege of one minority in front of others, the fact is that without a party card they have no perspective in this country and the fact that employers treat them without respect by not giving them a minimum of dignity, nor the security of employment, nor adequate wages. How did that happen? How did it come to be impossible to live in Croatia from work? So by the idea of 200 wealthy HDZ families along with Tudjman, who is the creator of this idea, let's remember that they did not forget, they created the master's layer, you heard well, so not the entrepreneurial layer but the master's layer, the layer of those who for nothing, for zero, got factories, land and machines so that then many of them, honoring exceptions, could live on both workers and on the history of work and the history of branding products that they got for zero kuna. The reading column of the other day, Ivo Anic, once again, reminded me of all the misery and misery that HDZ has exposed to the workers of this country since the early 1990s, he says in his own name, quote, my experience with Croatian employers is one of the more brutal, one of the saddest stories that I have never been able to write, never put together, never publicly publish. These people used most of my generation for their shameless wealth. We were their slaves, their cattle, humiliated, spit, underpaid, and always with the same mantra, the same wing, the same message, if you won't, there's anyone who will. Go if you don't want to, you wide Irish and Germany. I've heard that sentence a thousand times, says Ivo Anic in his column, most often when I received a miserable daily, no pay and disgraceful money for my heavy, dreary and savage work. We were cleaning toilets, doing unimaginable things, we were literally slaves, and that slave in that most terrible sense of the word, the cattle of a tiny tooth, for which there was nothing like a whip, but an insult, a humiliation. A drop that never spilled a glass was my kids, kids who needed to put food on the table, pay their morning bills, get out of the bag, settle the loan. These are the words I wanted you to hear if you didn't read this column, and I wanted you to hear it so that your ministers like Grlic Radman would understand how deeply insulting citizens are when they say that they are doing great in Croatia. Not that he's lying. No, he's really great, Grlic Radman's great, but he only adds such statements to all the citizens who felt like the author of this text, to forgive him, literally shit most of their lives, because he's telling them that they're guilty, because here, if he's like HDZ Minister, he can be great in this country, how can he not do that to them? Or, as the prime minister told them, they're just too much. Well, yeah, they're too pessimistic, they can't look forward to a new Mercedes or their boss's yacht while they're taking the church and they don't see how good it is that GDP is growing because they're overly bored with the fact that they're falling into purchasing power. This is Croatia 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83287	The next club of representatives will be that Mosta, and will be spoken by distinguished representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83288	10 days ago in Split, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic visited and his delegation and, of course, with praises sent down to Dalmatia, the forgotten Dalmatia, quite... The space so everything behind Kozjak is no longer part of.../incomprehensible/... not part of his concerns, it's the Dalmatian Zagora. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All projects that Andrej Plenkovic and the mayor mention are essentially projects along the coast and they are necessary. However, forget the Dalmatian Zagora, the only potential and maximum potential in southern Croatia, in Dalmatia is the Dalmatian Zagora, of course, we'll take the Straight Wheels, but now we're talking about a Split swimming pool and absolutely nothing about traffic verticals, it all ends up somewhere on Kozjak tunnel. On the Kozjak tunnel, which compared, taking vertical roads of the Imotski, Vrgorec tunnel, the merger of the Cetina and Sinj area, the Knin region, there is no word. Not a mention. I can only say here that once again that the Dalmatian Zagora has been evicted, that's what the results say, mostly the property end, the whole hinterland, the Castelan hinterland, it's just a burned country. And not to mention the area, not to mention the Dalmatian Zagora, which had recently been the main source of human potential that went to both Zagreb and third countries, is now empty, literally, most of the village is extinct or extinct. Firefields have been extinguished and do not mention Prime Minister Plenkovic any significant project, and next to him being the Mayor of Sanader, pardon, Boban or Sanader, the same is Sanader leading all, Ante, the vice president of the Parliament is more than embarrassing. I can only say that the most potent development space currently in the Republic of Croatia is... It's a cetin end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll say it 100 times. We need a vessel of housewives, 50,000 inhabitants, now slightly less, deserves that ticket. He deserves to become the suburbs of Split or vice versa. Because there will be 5 times the cheaper square of the apartment and resolving the housing issue of the people from the Split swimming pool, the problem is the overcrowding of the Split swimming pool. We'll take it from Omis to Trogir. They're natural barriers. The 200 million needed for the merger of the Cetina region, Sinj, the Cetina region, with the highway and Split would be a place that would be important for life. But not a word. Not a word. The anger of me as a representative and a mayor is great. The hospitality of this people is well known, 1,000 times I said, come all the way to Sinjska Alka. You'll see these potentials. The potentials of demographics, natural because Split has nowhere to spread. 5 times cheaper square, square apartment in Sinj than in Split. You're on a fast road in 15 minutes in Split. It's a huge space bigger than Međimurje County, a cetin area. By the number of inhabitants we have more than Lika-Sen County. All I'm talking about is the Cetino end of one part of Zagora. Not a word from the prime minister in Split, outside Kozjak and the tunnel. Not a word. Probably what the whip Sanader has got his drill up there. The busiest road in Croatia is only in the Vrstno in the summer, the Omis Omis road, and the busiest road is D1 towards Sinj in the country of Croatia daily over 20,000 vehicles. And that road is a road to life and it is also a salvation for the Splits, for the Cetinjans and for the whole of Zagora because it opens that space. Prime Minister, you're ashamed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83378	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP and will be spoken by the respected representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with a quote from a thinker from the beginning of the 21st century, and I quote: “You have parallel actors working on the demonstration of the state and all institutions. After Petrinja, there was an orchestrated attack on the Red Cross. Back in the month there are also CNB, HRT, Supreme Court and DORH on the wallpaper. It's a systematic attack. They go with salami tactics and cut a fetish every month. One goal is to slow down Schengen and another is to slow down the euro area. That statement is worth analyzing with several aspects. It was said by the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, so let's see who demonstrates the institutions he mentioned. I believe that the fact that Mrs. Josipa Rimac was the longtime executive vice president of the Croatian Red Cross contributed to the disassembly of that institution so that this kind of demonstration would be called so-called "the so-called Red Cross". wind decommissioning Croatian radiotelevision. Croatian Radio Director Mr. Kazimir Bačić was in custody where he was found because he carried money to his cousin for something, so-called. The courier's decommissioning. I believe it contributed to the decommissioning, so-called. Unmounting HRT. The state's attorney's office, however, disarmed themselves by defuncting themselves, so-called. Auto-dismantling. When at the press conference, the director of USKOK and the chief state attorney, like tennis players, moved the ball from one side to the other to eventually judge their former colleague. The Supreme Court is, however, not about the demonstration, but about the election of the new president, more about the installation, the new Supreme Court President was installed after trying to be denied candidate for Supreme Court President because it was proposed by the President of the Republic. We control the CNB by trading what we control. It's so-called. One version of capitalist self-management instead of socialist self-management, so we can call it self-administrative decommissioning. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce has been headed for a number of years by members of the Croatian Democratic Community of which recently was an unlawfully condemned so-called ". The husband's last to find out about the decommissioning. These are the institutions, which members or those proposed by the HDZ with the exception of the Supreme Court themselves have disbanded institutions that are headed by them. There are other types of institutions, those that the government is trying to demonstrate by reducing their influence, and they are still resisting it. For example, the Committee for the Conflict of Interest, which has significantly melted the edge of new amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, has now held meetings with one 50 points, Caricing 50 points of the agenda of various local, municipal directors who are asking for an opinion and will be entertained for the next few months. The Commissioner for Information in the Law on the right to access information refuses to give him the opportunity to impose penalties on what the Commission has for conflict of interest. In the last term, the prosecutor for children was removed because there was no will for the ruling, so the law was amended. And finally, the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and his commander because there's the defence minister hanging up and down on him and as he says himself he's strategically molesting him. It's an attempt, so it's an institution disassembly. Let me get this straight. The only demonatizing community we have in Croatia is not in opposition but is in power. Therefore, I conclude that at the head of the demonatizing community, the Croatian demonatizing community is a great dedramatizer and a demonist Mr. Andrej Plenkovic with his salami tactics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83459	The next club of MPs will be HDZ, and a respected representative, Marko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83460	Good afternoon, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's nice to be in the benches this new year. We've started with the current, but I must say I've heard the soft performance of the opposition, the file without any concrete suggestion. After all, the only speech I have to commend, with which I agree with most of it, is Mr. Bulj. I'm sorry he's gone, but I can see that fellow Kujundzic, who is also from Imotska krajka, I think we're all for a balanced regional development and absolute development of Imotska and Cetinska krajina that is important, would have been denied by this Mr. Bulja Prime Minister at a celebration in Knin, said how many billions will go for the project and the Dalmatian Burn, and Mayor Boban with his associates was in Imotska krajina perhaps a few days after visiting the prime minister. We have also heard a lot about demographics, we are aware that the issue of demographics is not only the issue of this government, that we have entered the EU, but if someone is working to create a framework for the stay and return of Croatian citizens, this is the government. And the best way to do this is to develop the economy, to grow the wages we see in the city of Zagreb 8.250 kuna in Croatia, and one of the directions and tools that will lead to further strengthening of the economy is the Law on Euro and Entry into the Eurozone. Two days ago, the Prime Minister presented a draft of the Euro Act, with 40 legal acts and 70 sublaws, will be one package soon to come to this House of Commons. The entry into the Eurozone is our main goal with Schengen, I would like to remind you that in July 2020 we joined the European Course Mechanism 2 and it provided us with many things that we would not then be able to consume by entering the crisis. If we compare only the 2008 crisis and this one we have already come out of this crisis that we are already ahead of the crisis levels of GDP that this government with $12.5 billion and 700,000 of jobs has secured, a good part of this money comes from eu funds, what from the financial instruments that were there for road trip in the Eurozone. Just in 2020, Christine Lagarde secured a 2 billion-euro loan when it was difficult to access credit funds, the European Central Bank stood behind us. It is credit agencies that have indicated Eurozon entry as the main argument of retaining and strengthening the RS credit rating. Therefore, we ensure the trust of the institutions, and if we look at all the countries that entered the euro last round, they all had a stable framework for growth, low interest, stronger wages, or economic growth and better integration. Today, modern sovereignty is one that you are highly involved and relevant in processes and integrated entry into the Eurozone will be even more integrated, even stronger will be our tourist season, less interest and citizenship, and that main argument that can be heard will be an inflational effect looking at the last round of enlargement of seven countries, the inflational effect was 0.2 to 0.4% points which is much, much lower than significant wage growth. Our goal is to enter the Eurozone in 1.1.2023, as early as 5.9 this year, to double the prices, the whole of '23. There will be a double display of prices so that citizens can make sure that there is no difference in prices, there will be great responsibility in banks, we invite all citizens to deposit their cash into banks, the conversion of bills will be without a time limit, and the coins will be three years and the citizens will be able, without compensation, to change 100 bills and 100 coins in one transaction into euro. In other words, in a year's time, so in this time of year, that period of two weeks will pass when power will be paid both by kunas and euros and we will enter much integrated into the Eurozone which will lead us further to wage growth, growth in the economy, access to capital integration in the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83542	The next club of MPs will be that of HSS and RF, and a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83543	Good afternoon, everyone. I will talk about what others will not talk about either from the opposition or from the ruling ones, so what does not seem to be very much interested in the representatives and MPs in this House, which is the new Labour Act that has been passed in secret for two years now in order to say this at the university I will dedicate to warning MPs and MPs here, and then the Croatian public about the important law which is among other things and why we came to this place in the EU by the number of evicted people, but obviously we are not learning some lessons from the past and obviously we are not clear that it is precisely the Work Act 2014. which brought Zoran Milanovic the cause of the situation in which we are. We can't move any population policies that will lead to the better economic status of all and the return of most emigrants if we have a situation in which we've been in the first place for 10 years on preeminent working contracts where we've been for 10 years first on contracts every three months, so that's a situation where young workers don't have the ability to start a family, they don't have the ability to raise loans, they don't have the ability to solve a housing issue, they don't have the ability to have salaries that can be normal and dignified in living, that's why people move out. They like to talk to MPs that the reason and general climate and corruption and what I know about you, but people if they don't have a job where they can work and make a decent living they don't have the opportunities to live in their country and the 2014 Labour Act has brought us where we are. The new Act of Work, which has been passed in secret for two years, has been written, Aladrovic conducts negotiations with social partners, but the drafts only come out on the hood and through these social partners who provide them with happiness, so the Labour Act will degrade workers even more. But obviously no one here is very interested. So if this Labour Act is adopted in this draft that it now has, workers' rights will be reduced. Workers will have more obligation to work overtime, i.e. overtime will be allowed even more. The workers will have fewer days off, we're talking population policy here. So the law that they think to bring reduces those paid days free when a child is born. There you go. So much for population policy. Union commissioners will be even less protected in a country where a practical strike has become a crime. Where courts criminalise strikes and workers throw out and take away their opportunity to strike. If this Labour Act passes, it is reported that the platform work and work from home will be arranged, nothing will be arranged in that segment, but all workers will become platform workers, and the work from home will only be used by the employer to further exploit the worker, even more kept by him, so there is no spare time, the worker is constantly available, what are platform workers, and they are constantly available and nothing is paid except what the employer needs, and neither pays what he needs, and so it will be, in that status will be all. So, colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at 7 p.m., Pucko Open School, the study of the Labour Law Initiative, I call on you all to come, the ministry has already refused to attend the summit, although it has attended a number of other stands that are clearly in favour of them, but we will continue to try to pressure this government to amend the existing draft Labour Act, and if this Labour Act comes in this form to Parliament, we will invite people to come out on the streets. People have to go to the streets because the Labour Act is the last line of defense for everyone who wants to live from their work and it's not just about workers' rights, colleagues and colleagues. It's about that, and I have to say that here, I've been following this debate since this morning and this show of opposition and the ruling, it's not too impressive, why? Because most of the opposition, if it were in power, would run an equal race towards the bottom of the HDZ, which is to create competitiveness only through a low labour price, and that's why I don't have an exaggeration. Hope or opposition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83544	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a short break by 15 and 30 when we're gonna move on to the intended point. It's 3:23 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83745	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking the Government, or a single member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 132 to 139. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before crossing to the first item of the agenda. Today, the first in line representative Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj raises the question of Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83746	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, Mr. Minister. Based on the provisions of its Constitution, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to protect the rights and interests of its citizens who live and reside abroad, and to promote their relations with the Homeland. Under the above constitutional provisions, the Republic of Croatia also cares about the interests of Croats in BiH, which is particularly important given the current political situation for us in the neighbouring country. The equality and consistency of the people in BiH as in the sovereign and single state is a political platform which is in principle supported by representatives of the Republic of Croatia on the occasion of all international consultations conducted with the aim of overcoming different views on the future functioning of BiH's state institutions. In addition to these facts, I am obliged to note that members of the Bosniak national minority in the Republic of Croatia naturally care for all political developments in BiH in which their home national community is also the most numerous of the 3 equal and constructive peoples that form the basis of BiH's statehood. Since I am a representative of the Croatian Parliament at the same time as the representative and Bosniak national minority in this high house, I would like to ask you Mr. Minister the following question. Since you recently visited Sarajevo and Moscow as the head of Croatian diplomacy, and that during this time, content and constructive discussions on the subject of BiH have been conducted, please answer us how far we have succeeded in your opinion bring one closer to completing an optimal solution and a sustainable agreement on BiH's functional state structure. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83747	Comrade Lecay, please stick to the order for further questions. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83748	Thank you very much, ma'am. First of all, I would say that you are right about Croatia as a democratic state that is unique in Europe, which is precisely based on respect for national rights, all possibilities for ensuring fundamental human rights, civil rights can be an example in the EU and beyond. You are also a representative of the Bosniak community. Yes, I was recently in Sarajevo as a teaching meeting at Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's departure on December 13th at the moment of the political tensions in BiH that you followed and were extremely visible. On the one hand, the separatist drive, on the other hand the unitarian, and you saw by reflection and by the influence of later and all political leaders that this visit by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic was widely accepted by all participants, all political actors and, of course, the international community. First sentence came as a friend, came as a partner. The second day on the Foreign Affairs Council, I was just talking about this, because Croatia is one of the few members, EU member states that directly visits and attaches exceptional importance to stability, political stability.../incomprehensible/... functionality and prosperity of BiH. This is not only important for Croatia because of the Croatian people who are a constituent people there, who should be an equal people based on insistence on change, an amendment to the electoral law that should remove all forms of discrimination, inequality in the electoral process, but also a security policy issue. Namely, Croatia is the only EU member to share the longest border, the external border with BiH. And, name and expertise, experience can only really legitimately testify within the EU about the importance, stability and functionality of BiH. Of course, the Prime Minister spoke to the European Council just 3-4 days after that, and in agreement with our government, I was the first minister to visit BiH in the first days of New Year's 4th and 5th on the basis of agreements and talks with the president of the Council of Ministers on the need to hold a joint session of the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Council of Ministers that should take place in the spring. Therefore, there is not only a political principled narrative but there are also substances, there is also content when we talk about the issue of energy, when we talk about transport infrastructure, about gas connection, environmental protection and all the other topics that connect us. Of course, there is still room, time to change, change of electoral law because it is the only foundation and only guarantee for the future of BiH's stability. That's what I was talking about, as you mentioned, of course, about my recent visit to Moscow. Of course Moscow is also interested, Russia is an important country before that. First of all, my visit there was to send a message of peace, stability, to give space to dialogue, and we had a very comprehensive discussion of BiH, of course, about the need to change the electoral law for which I received their consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83749	Here you go, colleague Lecay Smack.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83750	Dear Minister, thank you and I am pleased with your response and I also believe that the functional state structure of BiH is definitely the best guarantee on the way to joining the neighbouring country in European integration processes and I believe that BiH will have absolute support from the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83751	We're moving on to another question. Representative Mato Frankovic will be appointed by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83752	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister Butković on the 807 Dubrovnik – Kolocep – Chopud – Šipan transports the ship Postira. That ship was produced in 1963, and despite its regular maintenance today, such that it would pose a serious life threat to both the crew and all passengers on that vessel. Namely, October 25, 2021. due to the weariness of the vessel, there was a maritime accident, fortunately without consequences for human lives, and everyone was convinced that the said vessel would no longer return to sea on line 807. However, that vessel returned after the refurbishment and re-routed on that line. Over the past 20 years, more Presidents of the Jadrolinia Administration have changed, and about the same number has been the promise that the Elafid Islands will receive a newer vessel. Drafts were made, presented to the public, but nothing happened to this day. I would like to point out that it is an extremely profitable line that at least six months a year works with full capacity, therefore even more unreasonable is the long-term deafness of the Jadrolinija administration to the problems of the Elafita residents, but at the same time ignoring the safety aspects of the ship's navigation of Postira where almost daily are put into potential danger by crews and passengers. Dear Mr. Minister, Elafita's residents have never sought the latest vessel. There are a whole range of vessels on the used vessel market that meet the needs of line 807. Next mentioned as President of the Jadrolinia Assembly, I ask you to call for the responsibility of the President of the Jadrolinia Administration and ask for responsibility within which time period the replacement of the ship Posters may be expected by a newer vessel, adequate for a daily voyage to Elafite. and from Elafit towards the city of Dubrovnik. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83754	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. As far as your question is concerned, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 2016. in which the Government has actually decided to set lines in public coastal transport, a line No is set. The 807 that connects Šipan, Lopud, Kolochep with Dubrovnik and vice versa and in that decision is the minimum frequency of weekly lines, in particular 26 lines per week in the out-of-season season and 28 lines per week. It is true that the above line is serviced by the ship's Jadrolini boat, which is about 45 metres long, at a speed of up to 14 knots, and it is true that the year of production or to be picturesque, is older than the current minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure in this sum of government. Following this, we spoke with the Jadrolinia Administration on the subject, the fact is that the crown in the last two years has hit not only tourism but traffic and thus Jadrolini and that their income in the last two years is mainly in 2020. was smaller and could not go into some additional or investment in the purchase and construction of new ships, since they were fighting for liquidity and in that part the Government of the Republic of Croatia helped not only the Adriatic but also all other modes of transport, of course the carriers that needed it. In this year we planned first through the NPO procurement of six new ships and it was specifically three new passenger ships of which two to 45 meters would be on hybrid drive that would satisfy not only the Elafite but also the Lošin archipelago and in this sense the projects would be completed and they would be dedicated to the Jadrolinia Administration, they will call a tender in this year and in this 2022. They'll start building these ships, so we can count somewhere in 2023. that two new ships will be built, one definitely for this part that you're interested in. Until then we will try to find a way to Postira if she can no longer do it service it still to maybe buy a used ship to make up for it in a way that people down there are satisfied, of course that the line and all that work together. I repeat, so Jadrolini is going to purchase new ships, six new ships that will be financed most from the NPO, partly from credit funds, and three new passenger ships and three catamarans, and in that part we are moving into this investment cycle that is important for the maintenance of all lines, it is also important for the competitions that follow because only that shipman who has new ships that are ready can meet the conditions of the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83755	Here's my colleague Frankovic's reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83756	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased with your response, but the purchase of a new vessel takes a certain time, I repeat once again that the Postira ship is simply no longer adequate and poses a threat to both the crew and all passengers and we cannot imagine what a scenario would be without God's help. And that is why I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the actions should be taken as soon as possible and to send a replacement ship instead of a Postier ship because the Postira ship can no longer carry out this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83757	We now move on to the third question, MP Hrvoja Simic will be appointed by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83758	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers, Minister. Here's my question for Honored Minister Coric. You have recently visited Slavonia, more specifically in our area in the municipality of Donja Motičina in the town of Seon you have opened solemn works on one of the shares of the agglomerations of Našica one of the very complex and demanding projects that will almost completely solve and water-supply, but also a communal network in the wider area of the town of Našica and the belonging municipalities. Such projects are all over the Republic of Croatia, of course in various stages of implementation. I'm interested in your opinion, what does this ultimately represent for the local population after the implementation of these projects, but also by representing a single unit of local self-government as a burden on their budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83759	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83760	Thank you very much, Mr. Simic, for your question. So, water utility infrastructure projects not only in Našice which you mentioned as one of the examples but generally wider Republics are primarily aimed at doing or achieving the standards that our citizens and citizens deserve in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, which is access to public water supply on the one hand, on the other hand and public water. When we talk about Slavonia and Slavonian counties at this point it's 17 projects totaling more than 4 billion kuna, when we talk about the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about projects that at the moment 60 are worth more than 25 billion kuna and we're talking about thousands of kilometers of public water supply on the one hand, because it's a much bigger problem, I apologize, public discharge on the one hand, which is a bigger problem than public water supply on the other. What we are going to do in this way is to re-netrate the Republic of Croatia with a water-communal infrastructure and in each part of the Republic of Croatia, independently of its geographical position, open a perspective primarily on the rest of our population on the one hand, on the other hand and develop a whole series of activities that, without that water-providing infrastructure, simply could not be more developed. Here I think, I think about tourism, rural tourism in the area, and I also think about industrial activity without, of course, which is not possible without the hydrocommunic infrastructure. How and in what way we intend to finance it is clear that it is a combination of envelopes on one side of the funds from the previous OPC 2014-'20. These funds will be spent by the end of 2023. In absolute terms. On the other hand in the new programming period '21-'27. and these funds will also be supported on the third hand. The NPOO funds for these needs will amount to over 4 billion kuna. Finally, the infrastructure not covered by agglomerations will be financed by NPOO through smaller interventions or minor procedures. The amounts for this are estimated to be over a billion and a half kuna. Some of these tenders are already under way and we intend to enable every JLS in Croatia who has produced documentation to access these tenders and in fact solve water supply problems on the one hand or on the other side of the sewerage system. Our idea was and will be in the future that the financing costs of these projects will be primarily covered by EU funds, as I said from the operational programme from both NPOOs, in addition to the dominant financing of Croatian Waters or the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and only in some smaller part, which is an average of 5-6% as you know it goes to 10% with JLS. In this way, JLS and we at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, or Croatian Waters, want to make it possible for them to participate minimally in these projects, and to focus their money or their budgets on other projects, and above all in order to raise the standard of living or increase the quality of life of citizens and citizens throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83761	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83762	Thank you very much, Minister. Of course I am pleased with your answer, but I also convey the satisfaction of end-users who have been waiting for years for drinking water supplies. We know that drinking water, as you yourself have said, is one of the signs of quality standards and basic conditions for staying, especially in rural areas, but of course the precondition and for any kind of, further kind of progress in those areas. I am also very glad that you mentioned that those who have failed to do projects related to the agglomeration project that they will succeed in solving their basic problems in the other way as you mentioned, or that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will find ways to help also to repair the water supply network, but also to build further municipal infrastructure mainly in rural areas. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83763	Now MP Davor Dretar will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83764	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office HS, Your Honor, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Please allow the Prime Minister, my question will be about the development of a strategic plan for agriculture, so a key document for the withdrawal of 3 billion and 6 hundred million euros from the European register intended for the Croatian village and food production. At the end of last year, just to remind you, there were dramatic developments in the Ministry of Agriculture after the document arrived from the European Commission on 83 pages which discussed extensively the shortcomings of the Croatian draft strategic plan for agriculture, hence the key document for withdrawal of already mentioned funds in the period from 2023 to 2027. Because of criticism from the European Commission, we have seen the whole situation, and you have had to step in and ask for changes to the head of the team in charge of building a strategic plan, so instead of Secretary of State Zdravko Tušek as the first man to produce the document, you appointed the second Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak. Here, dear Prime Minister, allow me to ask you. Do Croatian farmers need to lose 3 billion and 6 hundred million euros because of their inability and inability to do so, and will State Secretary Tušek bear any political responsibility because of irresponsible work on a document that creates the future of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83765	Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83766	Thank you very much. Dear President HS, honourable MPs and MPs have a good day at the start of another HS session in this session. I would like to thank Mr. Dretar for this matter. As regards the strategic document, so the plan of the common agricultural policy and everything that is part of our national plan for this multi-annual financial period, it is entirely on the trail of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme to increase the agricultural production of our strategy for agriculture which, as you know, was carried out in a public debate which is indeed the largest number of stakeholders and I personally have been at several such large conferences with all our farmers thoroughly debated by Minister Vukovic, it is she who is responsible for all the documents to be accepted in time, to prepare the bases and, of course, to take advantage of all the opportunities available through the common agricultural policy, through investments in rural development. In recent years, we have indeed been able to disburse Croatia’s state budget in some way because part of the support for our farmers over the past years has been increasingly shifted to the European budget, and less and less have had burdens for part of the budget relating to agriculture, but we have also been following all the risks, all the challenges, all the crises faced by the agricultural sector, especially during this period of the pandemic that caused disturbances in all possible segments of the economy or sectoral policies, and so in agriculture, we have brought rapid, adequate support measures that have allowed all the stakeholders within our agricultural system to stay on their feet and to solve their problems. We will therefore, in good cooperation with the Polish Commissioner in the EU, who has personally participated in a series of these meetings and knows Croatia and has been here and especially during the Presidency, make efforts to make, not only all strategic documents are adopted in time, but to use these funds to strengthen Croatian agricultural production, its competitiveness, investment for young people, and in a certain way, digitalisation of agriculture. On the other hand, a series of laws that will be in the parliamentary procedure or have already been adopted represent one whole of the reforms we are taking, with the main aim of fulfilling our ambitions under the 2020 government programme in line with the National Development Strategy, which will be a quality and strong contribution to the strengthening of Croatian agriculture and Croatian villages. Of course, we will not forget fishing, since Croatia is a maritime country, the maximum effort is being made, and at all for our Adriatic and Mediterranean orientations, and we are looking at the Holist, overall and through the activities of the Ministry of the Sea, which is practically the Renaissance on the Croatian coast when it comes to investments in Croatian ports, and then it includes fishing ports, and our fishermen know very well, and we will try to make sure that the whole of these activities is exactly the way we planned. So, is there something in this article that we have to admit that we did not have any problems at government level communicating with our partners in the EU committee about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83767	Here's an indication, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83768	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. Now, I can't quite say that I'm happy with your answer, I can say that I'm satisfied with the form in which you gave that answer because of course it's a classic and standard form that we've been expecting, so one PR article, please, no offense whatsoever, but you can't escape from the truth. The truth is that you, or your respected colleagues and colleagues, are obviously looking at the situation in Croatia with some completely different glasses from a completely different perspective. We hear there are also members of your government that it is good for you in this country and that it is nice to live here. The indicators are unfortunately completely different, both economically and demographically, we see for ourselves, when you came back from the braiding from Petrinja what people think of it there. I believe that anyone who wishes to see this country as a country in which we all have the same right to equal life, a man's life, a decent salary, a decent job, cannot agree with the way this Croatia is currently standing both in the way and in the direction in which this country is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83769	Let's ask question number 5, MP Dragana Jeckov will be asked by the Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Josip Alandovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83770	Thank you. Dear Minister Aladrovic, behind us are two successful stages of a women's employment programme known as Zažela. Successful, both from the perspective of women employed, from the perspective of users, or those whom these women cared about. At the end of last year, however, the project ended most local self-government units. Mr. Minister, my question is very simple. When will Project Desire begin in 2022?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83771	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83772	Respected parliamentary MPs, the Honorable president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. When we talk about the project Zažela, I will absolutely agree with you that this is an absolutely successful project, a project for which in, at the beginning, there was... That is, about 300 million kuna has been located, which has grown to 1.8 billion kuna, so the budget for the project Dedicated as such, and this is the best indicator of how the project has affected, both the employment of women in rural areas and the social inclusion of the same women, i.e. at the same locations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was implemented in 749 projects was total, so worth more than 1.8 billion kuna and as such is also foreseen in programming for ISF Plus, so for the programming period between 2021 and 2027. We are in continuous communication with the EU Commission, the project continues as such in the next financial period. Where there is a particular challenge ahead of us is this period, while, between the completion of one programming period and the adoption of an operational programme, however, we are working on several scenarios to compensate for that remaining part of the time and in the Ministry very actively working on it. It is not in most of the units, but in each unit in which it is finished, we must find an alternative way to take care of older people who are covered by the project, and to hire all those who are on the labour market or who are available on the labour market for this type of work. This project actually includes three of the four priority axes from the European Social Fund, I am talking about employment, social inclusion and education, and as such will certainly be continued in the next period. In 2022, we will find some compensation models and very quickly present them to the public both to all local and regional administrations and self-government units, and to all those civil society associations that implemented this project to know that they have information on how the project will now take place in the short term and then continue in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83773	Thank you. Here's a statement from representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83774	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I am partially pleased with your response. I expected that we would have the opportunity to be even more precise, but if you mentioned compensatory measures that is something that is good, it is something that will certainly make all those who are both users, so the elderly in a more unfavourable position, and the unemployed women, and as you said, all three axes will still be present and will continue to be fulfilled. So, we expect your immediate reaction as you have told the compensatory measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83775	The sixth issue of MP Vesna Vucilovic will ask Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83776	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, ministers and ministers, my question is to the respected Minister Maric. Before joining the EU, Croatia had a zero VAT rate on all types of bread, milk and other products. By joining the EU, this privilege was only for those old, chosen privileged members. We've introduced a rate of five percent. I believe you know that as of this year, we will again have the opportunity to have not only a zero VAT rate but also one among the rates reduced between zero and five percent. Every day we record and witness oil, sugar, milk, bread, flour, basic foods. As of April 1st, the same gas, electricity. Everything collects not with one-digit rates, but 10, 20, 30 and even 40%. I will remind you that there are 423451 pensioners living in Croatia who receive a pension of less than 2500 kuna. These are people who live in severe poverty, I dare say in misery. And my question to you, Minister, is whether you have any projections and whether you will take advantage of this new possibility, and to introduce a zero VAT rate and also a reduced VAT rate between zero and five percent by the end of this year and at which products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83777	Here's your answer, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83778	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, since we first see each other to wish for all the best, successful work in 2022, above all a lot of health. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Tax policy, I think, has been debated in the Croatian Parliament for many years, and that is good, tax reform and all these tax evasion circles have opened up a whole series of topics, and I think today we can also conclude that it has been done very much and good first of all on redundancy of the economy and citizens either in a segment of direct taxation, either in a segment of indirect taxation, including the value added tax that you have just mentioned. So, at one of the last meetings of the EU Council at the end of last year, a decision has been taken, i.e. all the views that this possibility that you have mentioned is now being slightly extended to Member States in terms of reduced value added tax rates. As is the case when it was published or personally participated in these discussions and adoptions, and then we said that we would certainly consider it in the Government, but also put it in the context of the complete framework and tax policy that we have done so far, current circumstances and challenges, but also the view forward. So the VAT won't be ignored in any of our next steps. What measures will we be specifically aware of, of course, of the Croatian Parliament, and of the public when there is a moment to talk about these current circumstances, whether we are talking about some perspectives in the future. I will remind you that in the government programme which was actually an electoral programme for this second term, and it also entered the government's programme among other things and the measures with which we provided for a further discharge in terms of value added tax by lowering the general VAT rate to a discount for all other food products. Which was actually our basic intention and with the first changes in the value added tax system and actually try to reach precisely among other categories of population and our fellow citizens that you mentioned whether or not the pensioner, whether our citizens, therefore workers who achieve below average income income income tax changes, classes, personal deductions cannot do any good, given that they are neither in those scissors, therefore, because of the level of income received, there is no income nor entry into those scissors, but that, indirectly, through the reduction of tax rates on added value, it affects the reduction of prices that would then have led, in their baskets, to a relatively higher increase in their income. However, the experiences we have had so far have been more than clear. So, in reducing the rate of value added tax on electricity, waste of garbage and similar utility, we think that we can agree that there has been a justified and real price reduction for that amount of VAT reduction, however, the situation is not entirely the result that we ultimately were fully aware of in the case of fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs where, of course, the value added tax is not the only category that affects the total price. In any case, I would say that given the current circumstances that you mentioned, whether it concerns energy, gas, electricity, fuel and the like, it's all something we think about. You know that we have also taken certain measures so far, and also in the period ahead, we will take additional measures. Tax policy is one of the segments of that package we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83779	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83780	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with the answer. So this initiative at EU level hasn't been since yesterday. It started in 2018 you had enough time at the ministry, and you have enough people, you could make analyses, projections, impact on the budget, etc. I was expecting a concrete answer, obviously he's gone, and little does that answer of yours remind me of that people's full of hunger he doesn't believe. The fact is that you and this government have chosen exactly VAT as the main charger of the budget. It's the most unfair tax, it's paid by both those who have and those who don't, and the fact is that you never started a little more serious procedures when it comes to the property tax, so that those who have the richest, those who have the most paid a little more still in that state budget. However, we might lose some friends on whose yachts you're flying, but on the other hand maybe we should think about it because every other citizen of the Republic of Croatia doesn't have money for some unexpected expenses and that's our reality and that's the reality of this country where we live. As many as 70% of those in the poor are in 5 Slavonian counties and in Sisak-Moslavina County. This did not prevent HDZ Mayor Petrinja from imposing a 10% cut this year. Therefore, this government has provided us Slavs with a one-way ticket to Germany and nothing more in the past or in this term. I'm asking a written answer because I'm not happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83781	We now move on to the 7th question, MP Selak Rasdic will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83782	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, I will not ask if your throat has dried up when you should have called Ursula von der Leyen as you promised to extend our deadline for the EU Solidarity Fund or Ursula may not have responded to your calls because, let's say, in a conversation with the European Public Prosecutor, she decided to choose society a little better. I will not ask you that because it is clear to all of you that you have any influence within the EU that you would do something about it and that money would not ultimately come out of our pockets but from the Solidarity Fund. I'm not going to ask why you're calling for a lack of media attention and whether all the means of public advertising should have been broadcast live by your big interview on HRT. I'm not going to ask you that because it's unquestionably unquestionable that the Minister-in-Office who's here, who has been miraculously blown out on the show, is going to encourage even if the public service to better report your government's successes. I will not ask you why Mark's square is still fenced when only you have recognized the threat of terrorism or how you like changing your favorite coalition partner's hat from celebration to celebration. If that bothers you, you'd have broken up that coalition a long time ago. I'm going to ask you a more structural question that is not in the public's focus, which explains a lot of what's going on in Croatia how you cross all institutions, expand your own electoral base and disable the long-term prosperity of our country. My question is simple, do you have any data or at least an indicative number of how many have grown or decreased the number of employees in the central government and public administration compared to the last four years, and what do you justify that number?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83783	Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83784	Thank you very much. Dearly respected MP Selak Rasudiæ, first of all I congratulate you, I wish you every good, we follow the media, we watch not only our own interviews, and in this context I will look back at these things that you said you would not ask because I think it is good to ask. First I will be the favorite thesis of MOST, not only of you, but of your colleagues, and that is the declaration of our parliamentary majority to the Croatian-Serbian coalition. You, as the main lover of Milanovic, are silent, as is Mr. Bulj behind you when Milanović hugs, praises, brothers, partner with Dodik, silence, thunderous silence of MOST's. Nothing, zero, zero, zero and so on for a year and a half, and you're not the only one, like all the others who were obvious 10 days ago, silent, even at yesterday's or yesterday's statement, nothing. What you'd break up with, is you broke up your love with Milanovic, you didn't. Well, you see, when the arches are the same, then you gravitate. I don't mean you, I mean the others who were obvious here. As for the EU, so unlike you and your strong influence in Croatia, let alone at European level, Croatia is a respectable EU member. A member who, during this period, is a development decade because when we have completed all national tasks, there are EUR 25 billion available, most of which are non-refundable. It's certainly thanks to the Most, because if it hadn't been for MOST and the opposition, there certainly wouldn't have been any money available. No, 100% of them wouldn't be that safe. As far as interference and influence are concerned, that's what we'll see. As for the European Solidarity Fund, I do not remember that someone has won for the City of Zagreb, it seems to me 683 million euros with comparable natural disasters in other situations, and for Petrinja 320 million and each other is spent, spent, will be accelerated, however, will not fail. The specificity of two earthquakes, the specificity of the fact that all this is happening at the time of the covida-19 pandemic, the specificity of the fact that the European Solidarity Fund allows for the regulation of the European Solidarity Fund, is that if you choose not to return to the previous situation only, and only someone who does not have any sense of coffee is Zagreb and its old buildings, in terms of strength and anti-quake strength, to return everything to the previous state, a little bit of glued up and wait for the poof to crack another earthquake, let's say, of 6 so that everything goes away as a map tower. That is why the expert's recommendation was to go to the reconstruction structure, and the EU's Solidarity Fund will participate in that part of the funds until otherwise acceptable in the recovery of the previous situation. So, we'll sort it all out, and as far as the number of employees is concerned, there's more or less, there's probably more, I'll ask Minister Malenica, I don't have that information, I don't have it up my sleeve, but there are employees who are employed to make the state more efficient, better and for the benefit of the citizens. So in the mix of what you haven't asked and what you are, Malenica will send you a precise number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83785	Before MP Selak Rasudic, a colleague, Bulj, was shown to have requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83786	Thank you very much, President. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. In 238, he first named me personally for having nothing to do with my colleague's question, only to point out to the prime minister that at the Chetnic parties in Bačka Palanca and celebrating the formations such as Republika Srpska was your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, celebrated the creation of a Chetnic which was created on the crime of Ratko Mladic, and you continue to insist on it and work on it because a really good partner with Dodig. [[Adversity President: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83787	Comrade Bull, you're being warned, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was a pure replica. Here are Representatives Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83788	I'm not surprised you don't know the answer to my key question, and that shows how seriously you control the system when you have no idea how many people in it are employed, let alone who's working here, so I'll give it to you. So by comparing data on 31.12.2017 and 30.9.2021, it is evident that the number of employees increased by 6,761, when the number was added to that number and those who moved to the county by decentralisation and those who went into retirement turned out to have employed at least 15,000 people four years back. For years, you have been warned that a state public apparatus should be reduced because not only is such a mastodon impossible to finance but it enables the development of clientelism that clearly suits you by making a significant number dependent on the political will of whoever put them in those places. And then someone wonders who's suffocating our economy, why taxes are high and where budget billions disappear. But as in some ad, that is not all, on top of these new costs on Croatian kunas and further riding companies associated with USKOK's indictees, so we see that the Central State Office for Reconstruction has chosen the first contractor of the replacement houses to be built on the earthquake-affected area of the company owned by Marija Friday's son, controversial entrepreneur Kresha Friday, who was arrested as the first indictee in the Janaf affair. You might want to ask yourself a little bit about how budget money is spent in rebuilding in an earthquake affected area, if you don't want to maybe the European public prosecutor who didn't recognize the quality of Gabi will still bring her to justice like you did. Since the language of Hollywood blockbusters obviously you understand best I'll tell you this, dont look down to Prime Minister Plenkovic, pardon dont look up, look down and you'll see what Croatian reality is and why so many citizens He's moving out and everything that's been clear to all the rest of us for a long time. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83789	Let's move on, 8th parliamentary question, counterpart Mažar Nikola will be asked by Culture and Media Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83790	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, with ministers and ministers. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Culture and Media, Mrs. Nina Ossuzen Koržinek. We are witnessing that following the catastrophic earthquakes that took place in the Republic of Croatia, the first one from March 22, 2020, and then the stronger petrinjski which hit central Croatia on December 28 and 29 were causing significant damage to all types of buildings, as well as on buildings in the area of historical urban units and buildings individually marked as protected cultural goods. Can you tell us, therefore, what has so far been the Ministry of Culture and Media as a body responsible for implementing the measures for the protection of cultural heritage damaged in the earthquake in connection with the preparation of project documentation and the implementation of reconstruction works on public buildings with the status of cultural goods?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83791	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83792	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So there's a lot of overlapping here, and maybe it's good to clarify that when we talk about cultural heritage that we're talking about, to the greatest extent, not about buildings that are meant for the system of culture, but about different public buildings like this building that we're sitting in today. I will briefly recapitulate that part of the reconstruction of public buildings, so two earthquakes first Zagreb-based then petrinski in the shortest time period were assessed listed all the damages by an internationally-verified methodology which also helped to approve emergency intervention funds, and here I would like to refer a little to this comment on the number of employees previously. I would like to say to the Ministry of Culture and Media to ask how many expert colleagues of conservatives who, by the way, spend about 300 million investments for all of Croatia each year and make about 300 million investments at this time provide an arm in line with the City Institute in Zagreb, but then also Sisak-Moslavina and other county to spend 3.5 billion in such short deadlines. These are professional jobs that require very thorough work that will later pass all controls. So, telegraphally short of the estimated 850 million kuna Allocation for the Zagreb earthquake, 3.5 billion projects related to public buildings, sacral buildings, public buildings owned by the City of Zagreb, etc. More than 40 projects are currently going to purchase or have finished supplying for work. As the Prime Minister explained, these funds are intended for the urgent rapid part of the construction in the first row of the recovery. However, you need to understand when you are working on a cultural good you can't do it without complete documentation because you could actually endanger later and the security of the building, and certainly endanger the status of cultural goods. What we have done and to facilitate and speed up this process, but also to give the opportunity to rebuild the building in the best possible way I have also formed an international advisory committee in which European top experts are sitting, engineers specialised in anti-quake renovations that provide their advice and help to verify very complex projects from schools, large volume buildings, etc. It is clear that this process will take a long time, it can be accelerated by all who participate in it. As far as the Ministry of Culture and Media system is concerned, as I said, we have indeed given our hand to the local self-government and taken over most of the bargaining and monitoring of the work on ourselves. A plan for the city of Petrinja was completed to restore a cultural historical whole, which was a legal obligation. Today we have referred to our partners' consultation plan to restore the cultural historical whole of Sisak, which sets priorities. I appeal from this place once again to do the same thing for the City of Zagreb, which is within the jurisdiction of the City of Zagreb because it will help further priority projects and speed up procedures in the protected cultural historical environment, and as we know, that part of the City of Zagreb was the most affected. I appeal once again to all those who can engage to speed up all processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83793	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83794	Thank you very much, dear Minister. I can say that I am pleased with your answer, first of all for reasons not only that you have approved 150 projects from the Solidarity Fund worth more than 3.5 billion kuna, but you have not stopped at it, you have hired the Croatian Restaurant Institute through which it goes and added 50 projects worth 70 million kuna, but you have also created an international professional advisory body for construction reconstruction primarily through the profession, through building engineers, and I believe that this one whole approach and ministry together with other relevant ministries and other state bodies, but also with the profession will contribute to the fact that, apart from the restoration of all the priorities and in the restoration of all cultural heritage, we are going to be able to restore the entire access and ministry together with the other relevant ministries and other state bodies. I believe that this is what the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County deserve, but also from all other counties that have suffered earthquake damage and I hope that you will continue at this pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83795	Now let's move on to question no. 9, Representative Miro Bulj will appoint him Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83796	Dear Prime Minister, I know you've got big problems, you've been demoted by European institutions, we know that OLAF is checking your Gabi's spending of European funds, and we've witnessed that the 5 billion EU fund that you're going to solve with one phone you said with your friend Ursula, but obviously you're a second-rate player, or possibly a third-rate player, so you don't have any influence on your friend Ursula, but that's not my question. My question is reality. Right now we have the most expensive fuel prices, coming to the 12 kuna border. You have frozen prices, but what happens, the price of barrels drops, and in Croatia the price of fuel rises when you freeze, you should also reduce excise duties, and you have not reduced excise duties, and now you have made it possible for traders to lose what they have lost in freezing now in freezing and it affects prices, this and the energy itself, which affects the price of course the price of all and food products, the price of life, standards. Here's the gas, the increase in gas will affect agriculture. Here you will see how artificial fertilisers will be for farmers and how expensive food and survival will be for people at all, and we can see that people from these areas are leaving. I see you're talking about reducing VAT by five percent of the gas, some price you mentioned. However, the people are interested in accurate measures both workers and peasants and pensioners and healthcare professionals What measures have you taken for inflation? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83797	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83798	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. The second time I go to the European Council, I'll take you with me or anyone from the Most to give me a little bit of space on who's who, who's who, who's how to talk to, in which language. So give me a little direction. And I'm going to ask you for advice and maybe recommend to Bozinović that he quotes you as an anti-vaxer in the Staff, because I'd like to see a government where, let's say, again, there's a MOST that's not going to happen, in which, say, your colleague Mr. Bekavac says people, please get vaccinated. Then it's like Minister of the Interior Bulj down with covid certificates, don't be vaccinated. That would be one consistent policy without including in this own creativity who your partners would be, and I see you're teaming up with the far left, playing right and Christian option. So it's important that the public knows who people are dealing with when they support you, your ideas that you're whispering about here and I miss us. You're whispering yourself that you're missing. And now you're collecting signatures, you're collecting them as far as I'm concerned, and by 25.1.2023, I don't care. Why do I say it this way because it's not like it's not a question, that people understand who's constructive, who's destructive, who's the one who suggested that Croatia enters the system of enhanced cooperation of the European Public Prosecutor. Did you do it or did our government do it? Did MOST think of that? It's not. Therefore, when little of this sits in place, people will see who they are who want the rule of law, who wants European values, who are fighting corruption, who are there to realize in full what Croatia's membership in the EU is in this decade. If it were up to you, that you were here, for example, when there was a referendum or when the accession treaty was ratified, I doubt that you would be in favour. It would be hard to find one Mostovac who would among the 150 MPs of this House who had raised his hand for EU membership at the time. You weren't there then. Therefore, your whole story about this subject is a dog. As for the fuel price, so three months ago we passed a regulation limiting fuel prices to 11.10 kuna and to 11 kuna, held that price for 2 months. In this way, avoid any impact on citizens when it comes to their personal consumption or business consumption. After that, we put things back on the market. Of course, like all of us, we've noticed today's prices of gasoline that are more than that price. And if we have an estimate that any price after we see the situation on the market this week, next week we may go up again we will limit all fuels other than Premium to that level that was then and thus facilitate the economic position of our citizens. Because all the time, we're two years old while you're grizzling and destructive, we're building people to have salaries, to work, to keep companies from going down, so that the state shows its strength, strength, speed and role when it needs to be helped in this crisis and that the private sector has 700 thousand workers to pay and keep on its feet 120 000 businesses and prepare the best tourist season in the Mediterranean competition is going towards GDP growth that will be more than 10%. Your contribution to that was great. Let's say there are as few vaccinated as possible, so that as few people as possible come to Croatia, to your Split-Dalmatia County as a tourist. They'll say I'm going down there, nobody's vaccinated down there, there's freedom down there. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83799	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Selak Rasludic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83800	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. The Prime Minister's nervous. I think it's because he's hungry, because lately he's been saying something about salami. I don't know if you're on a post-day diet, but we'll be happy to help solve this problem because it's also overdoing to solve, or not to solve your problems with regard to Croatian citizens. So we from Mosta will be happy to buy you 10 blankets of parizers to stop thinking about salami and get back to this issue and other problems concerning Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83801	Thank you very much. One salami reminder for what you did because it wasn't any damage to the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. There you go, Mr. Bull. Now you can show yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83802	Thank you very much for your response to the Prime Minister. I'd just like to say to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister isn't such a problem for you, you've got a problem inside, you've got a lot of hangbabs, spring announcements. There's a problem with the HDZ. Just follow Mr. Jandrokovic and you'll see when you get close to the end of your HDZ colleagues, no matter what. So grab that part. There's a bigger problem for you than the Bridge. It's just the bridge on your mind. And I'd just like to say for a little while that you mentioned anti-vaxers. I don't know what you're talking about. It was absolutely not a topic. The theme is that today we have 3 million and 100 thousand less, 4 million people. The theme is to come to this very Split-Dalmatia County, and not to mention any project in Split-Dalmatia County, and this is one of the biggest potentials primarily Cetinska krajina for life. And as for your prices, I'll tell you one more time what you just said. You've frozen prices at 11 kuna. Now that you've defrosted at least the fall, and in Croatia the price of fuel has come to 12 kuna. For what? Because you haven't cut down, and you've abolished excise duties at this time so that they can be more energy-efficient. They have a problem and public, local companies, they have a problem with our citizens, we have a problem with agriculture, we have a huge problem with the purchase of inflation prices. And now you're still introducing the euro because maybe Governor Vujcic told you what this means now to collect these prices and these inflations that are waiting for us at the euro? What will our people wait for? You've got five billion dollars coming out of you. That's true. That young man you sent out. 3 million and 800, Prime Minister, 10% [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] You've moved out of Croatia since you were in power. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83803	Thank you very much. Time's up. Let's go to the 10th question, colleague Bacic will be asked by Culture and Media Minister Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83805	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. The Serbian Parliament passed a law on Serbian cultural heritage on 23 December last year, declaring the editions of Dubrovnik literature by 1867 a Serbian cultural heritage. The time for which Dubrovnik literature takes place is the time of the Dubrovnik Republic, which in the culture of literature coincides with the directions of Gothic, Renaissance, baroque, classicalism and romance, just at the time when Dubrovnik literature gives Croatian culture literary bardos such as Trić, Gundulić, Vetranović, Mencetic and Palmotic. Unfortunately, this time I mentioned earlier, Serbia is dominantly under the occupation of Osmanli and there is no more significant cultural work to the Osmanliator Obradovic. The rest was said by Vuk Karadzic in 1818 when he said in the Serbian dictionary that Serbs have a thousand years of letters and letters, and they have no more important literary work. Unfortunately, however, this deficit in its own cultural and literary expression cannot and cannot be done, it is scandalous to compensate for the adoption of a foreign cultural one, in this case a literary statement by the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the law has shown that there is still an imperialistic large-serb policy in the heads of the current Serbian government for the adoption of someone else's. That's why it's my question, ma'am. Minister, what will your Ministry and Croatian Government do to correct this shameful law or put out of force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83806	The reply of the esteemed Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83807	Thank you, Mr. MP Bačić. This issue has already started a lot of debates in Croatia in recent days, and we, both the Ministry of Culture and Media and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have already responded to both the Croatian public and the Serbian side. So, of course, we express and express the strictest opposition to the adoption of such a law, of course we will take advantage of everything at our disposal, including what is before us and through bilateral relations, but also through the process of joining Serbia's EU, to ask that such unacceptable provisions be removed from the law. However, I think it is also important that what you said, where these ideas come from and where their origin is and how it is even possible that a European state in the 21st century that should be turned over to some other topics, persists and tries to adopt in this sense something that has never been theirs, there is no way of the most creative possible scientific interpretation that would attribute any writer of older Croatian literature, or older Dubrovnik literature to some Serbian cultural space. Unlike earlier visits when they tried to claim to be Serbian writers, a step in this law was made here, and it is said of a double or double belonging, which is even more nonsense, and you have well quoted just some important people from Serbian history who in their performances and their views actually challenged this thesis. In my first reaction, of course, as a member of the government, but of course also as a Dubrovnik woman, and even as a professor of literature, I have expressed my opinion that it is actually equally reaching for territory or cultural heritage, regardless of whether it is material or immaterial, and in that sense, such a move is further disturbing, unacceptable and deserves the condemnation of all of us. He comes after we have also witnessed in recent years very unprincipled decisions related to the use of Croatian language in Vojvodina. Especially here, I mean the question of the rebels, and the invention of a nonexistent language, the rebel language. It comes after some textbooks have shown that Croatia is as some version of a large Serbian language, but what I think should be a message to us, according to our public, towards all our citizens and in Croatia and neighbouring countries, we will react politically, but it is important that we know for ourselves who we are, which are our values, which is the language we speak, to cherish, to maintain, to explore, to present ourselves and not to get involved in such topics and the thesis that really belong to some of our ancient times. Croatia leaves these topics behind It would be good if our neighbors left them, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83808	Here you go, buddy. Bait, the obvious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83809	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you and I come from that town of the gentleman and remember that the bloody attempt to take Dubrovnik was made in the early 1990s and how beautiful and dear freedom is written about here by Ivan Gundulić in 1628. It's unimaginable that someone who believes Dubrovnik's town would have been so barbaricly destroyed and destroyed by it in the early 1990s. And instead of the Serbian government turning to the future and building bridges of cooperation, this way, this scandalous way opens up divisions, the conflicts that I had hoped we had closed in the last century. So it's good that you've taken action to put this law out of force and change. And as you yourself said, it is not only a question of this law, there is also a position in the Croatian language in Vojvodina. It is still in our ears that we are invited to flag all over the Serbian world on the day they thought it was necessary to report, implies and make such things in Croatia. We are in the south of Croatia, and we understand this message clearly and in Croatia, and according to this message, we will be able to set ourselves up and answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83810	Now it's 11 questions. Representative Darko Sobota will be appointed by Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83811	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, would ask the Minister of Agriculture Mrs Vuckovic. The government of the Republic of Croatia has found additional funding for the livestock aid programme due to rising livestock prices and additional disturbances resulting from the Covid crisis. Support applications were received at the end of last year and they were almost paid all. However, one part of the herdsmen, one of which is a small number of herdsmen from the Koprivnica-križevci County, and how much knowledge I have from the entire Republic of Croatia because they say enough unclear warnings to the APPR and according to the resolution ministry have not reached that support. In the end, it's mostly about statements related to OPG facilities, so I'm wondering if there's any intention of the Ministry of Agriculture doing something about it. When we talk about food, we are also witnesses to food gatherings at all levels, so I want to know why food prices are rising and what your respective ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is going to do to stop this price rise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83812	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83813	... Therefore, food prices in the world are rising for various reasons, one of these reasons is certainly disturbances in supply chains caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, also increased demand, which is partly linked to the recovery of some major markets and, ultimately, weather problems in major countries producers or exporters of some of the world's major raw materials. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, energy prices have been rising lately, which is particularly reflected in all segments of the economy as well as agriculture. When I talk about energy prices, first of all, I think about gas with a series of artificial fertilisers, and then production costs, and eventually all of this is paid by EU consumers and Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted to all crises, both in this crisis and in terms of rising prices that have been highest in the last 10 years and shared by all EU countries will respond co-ordinatedly in inter-resorship co-operation. The Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, reacts to a number of support, so we among those countries that had the largest number of notified support in the last year and a half, approved support by the European Commission, and the value of such outstandingly paid measures was 675 million kuna. Currently, direct payments are paid, farmers are granted advances, soon the first war will start, as has been established in recent years, and investment tenders are worth just over a billion kuna, which testifies to the strong interest of Croatian farmers for investment and to increase productivity and competitiveness. We also presented on the last council a series of proposals from the European Commission and presented, analyticalally, price increases, price increases on producers, and also discussed future developments with concrete suggestions on how to help, how to help the sector. That's how it's gonna be. As regards the specific situation and the competitions you are talking about, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found additional funding, 2 programmes have been announced and paid off at the end of the year to help the livestock sector. One was worth 171 million kuna, another 20 million kuna. Indeed, a larger number of farmers have been paid, but one smaller number has not received support because of incomplete documentation. At this point, it doesn't matter who made the mistake, we have found a way to install these farmers into the system too, and they will be allowed to report additionally. The funds are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83814	Here's a statement from my colleague, Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83815	Thank you, Madam Minister. I express my satisfaction with your response and thank you for your efforts in the forward ministry, and I also thank the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the additional funds to meet the needs I have drawn attention to right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83816	Let's go to 12 questions, MP Zeljko Lenart will refer it to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83817	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly- Dear President of the Croatian Government, since we like to boast that we are a tourist country with great income from tourism, a large number of arrivals, overnights, we have a lot of national parks, nature parks, we have a branched road infrastructure with intense traffic, but we also have a large number of deaths from cardiovascular diseases. The question I want to ask you here is emergency helicopter medical care, will the government of the Republic of Croatia finally, although I do not know how many amendments I have already invested in the budget, finally decide to form an emergency helicopter medical service extended throughout the Republic of Croatia that will use strictly dedicated helicopters for this purpose? Since it is carried out annually about a thousand flights of unintended helicopters that are both overpriced and ungrabed and inadequately equipped we know what the golden watch means in surviving patients and victims of traffic, how much less the cost of treating the health system, how much greater survival is, and in some ways we would probably also save considerable resources if we had an emergency helicopter medical service. I don't think that it's too much of an expenditure of the Republic of Croatia is just a question of the will of those who decide whether they finally want to form it or not, and which would certainly affect more arrivals, more overnight stays and more money in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83818	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83819	Thank you, Reverend Lenart. First of all, I'm glad that you've also established a good network of Croatian highways, good results in tourism, increased number of overnight stays, very quickly we can say the arrival of '21 results. in 2019, when it comes to the tourist season, in particular when it comes to revenues, all the activities related to tourism were taken into account. When it comes to health care and emergency helicopter medical services, so your appeals came upon fertile soil, they also came across understanding and support both the Government and the Minister of Health. A few days ago, unrelated to this meeting, we had a conversation where I don't know if the minister informed you regarding your questions and amendments took steps with the various stakeholders that exist, and they are dealing with an emergency helicopter medical service and the establishment of this service has entered into the strategic documents of the Ministry of Health. And in this respect, they are already under preparation to invest through NPOO funds in education and nurses involved in such an emergency helicopter service. We will also try to find the best model, whether it is the engagement of existing companies dealing with this transport, so that those who have both helicopters and knowledge and technology of work with our nurses and we will support the ministry's efforts to speed up the whole process, so that this current contribution, which is primarily based on the involvement of Croatian military helicopters, is therefore compensated by the MORH with a specialised helicopter medical service and the health minister will inform you in more detail, and I consider it to be a new higher level of stitches that will allow the transport of patients from a troubled situation, or if they are in some hospital where they are assessed on the basis of a medical assessment of emergency intervention in some hospitals where more quality health care can be obtained. You know that in this respect all the resources that the state has practically according to the difolt are available to our citizens or tourists in Croatia, the government's plane is also used, and of course the resources of the MORH and we do it regularly without even sometimes the public even knowing how many of these flights there are, it is done precisely in order to protect health, and this type of service and specialised knowledge of those who would do this job would raise that level of health care even further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83820	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83821	Here's a thank you for the answer. The moment it's formed and it works I'll be not satisfied but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and our guests who visit us. We know that in some European countries, autocubs have an emergency helicopter medical service, so I think that then the Republic of Croatia probably has enough power to finally form it after 30 years of existence. As I said, the golden hour is very important and I believe that these savings will be large in the health system that is so cramped in debt, so I think that if you succeed in this mandate, it will form that it will be one of the great things and achievements that will be achieved in the Republic of Croatia, and, of course, the improved and tourist season will probably be because of this because the guests would rather come where this service exists. Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83822	The 13th issue by Marina Opačak Bilic will be asked by Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83823	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Grlic Radman. Here are a few weeks presented a measure for our emigrants for Croats outside the country called "I choose Croatia" which aims to bring back those who want to come here and start their business, and they clearly said it was too late to implement measures towards them. But let's take it even if it's not too late, we still have a vague basis on which you base the encouraging models you're offering because right through the measure "I choose Croatia" the government plans to invest nearly a billion kuna in the return of 4,000 people, so we've been planning to return 4,000 people in the last ten years, and I'm wondering if we're all wondering if that's our goal, whether our goal is to bring back just 4 and a half thousand people for a billion kuna. The conversation, yes, encourages you to, but I ask you on what terms and under what motivation, which is that we are actually still offering these people besides coming and self-employed, here's what will ultimately attract them to return and what are the positive trends that follow us and here I ask you to explain it a little bit closer because all we hear and all we see and read about this measure is actually that on the one hand we have that she is on the part of the Croatian public welcome a word with a bitter taste in her mouth while again these potential returnees welcome the same measure with a smile or to say that she is just a sweet smile. In parallel, we also have a welcoming office in Croatia for which you can also give us an answer to how many people have returned since the office exists and how much has it cost us so far, and will this measure actually be implemented and based on the experience of just one of these already tried models? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83824	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83825	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Opačak Bilić for this very important issue of course, I follow your work also on the Committee on Croatians outside of the Republic of Croatia, actively, thank you very much. You know, it's not all about the money you're talking about, but it's important, it's actually exactly the government's incentive to do it is also about giving people who want to come back. What is important is the policy of this government, and I have passed through as a former emigrant and someone who has returned to the Republic of Croatia and I have been an ambassador to important countries where the Croatian diaspora lives who went and left Croatia in the former country, especially in Canada, I met people of the second generation who don't need any incentives but there is a desire, there is love, there is another perspective of Croatia that you may always say a mockery about here, I don't see that ridicule you know. My job here is not to see this mockery at all but to look affirmatively here, to look optimisticly and to see enthusiastically when we have in mind the fact really in the international world order of Croatia that deserves the reputation of one of the most beautiful countries in the world when we talk about tourism, when we talk about its beauty and what is very important always so that you can know how good you are and how good it is for us how successful the state should always manage comparisons and always deprive yourself of cheap reflections if you do not have the right comparisons. Namely, in Canada, in the U.S., where I talked to the emigrants, so the second third generation, not the one who left and wants to go back, of course we're the same now with the U.S. administration, here's our big success after 30. which we managed to lift means visas. Our people are interested in coming to achieve business cooperation, and they are particularly interested in a more advanced agreement on avoidance of double taxation, especially for our pensioners, but the second generation wants to move to Croatia. In South America, I will soon visit the same countries of South America together with counterpart Milas and colleague Zdravko Busic where we have these experiences of our people who want to enter and move into the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is a safe country, the quality of life depends, of course, on the standards that the country provides, of course, that there are always possible improvements, and exactly the reform processes and precisely these measures that you have mentioned are only one in a series of contributions, only one in a series of actually those procedures that the government wants to encourage, of course, the emigrants, returnees and the second third generation to arrive in the Republic of Croatia. There's a lot of people you know out there who went out after two or three years. They saw in fact that the profits that they are relative, but the quality of life is much, much more important and that returning to Croatia will certainly be one of their desired meanings of goals, return and continuation of life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83826	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83827	Thank you very much for your response, but I still have to express my dissatisfaction, I haven't received an answer to any of the questions asked. I asked if you were satisfied with the results and the costs of the welcome office, I didn't get a reply. Furthermore, which are finally the positive trends Croatia is offering to bring back. You didn't answer. It's not all about money, that's what you said, that's what I think, but it can't just be overcome by that kind of love, because the standard of citizens is still the first thing that will attract someone and stay here and come back. You have not offered an answer which is the social and economic standards that make us desirable and that you are working on and based on all these measures that we have talked about because, as I said to the citizens who have stayed in Croatia, I can say that for a reason they are disappointed about this measure "I choose Croatia" and that they feel betrayed because precisely those who have decided to stay here and fight, who have decided here to base their families have no form of support, possibly have a form of support unfortunately in the form of perspective emigration and with all the love of the country instead of working to raise the standard here first and above all those who remain there they will again be cut off because their efforts will be refinanced by the returnees. It's clear to me that you're not aware of what message was sent here, and unfortunately here's what we heard as the government is dealing with who's disassembling the state in some kind of salami fetta, unfortunately our people, a large number of our people are living off the feta of the cheapest Pariser. I understand that it is not clear to you, here because you yourself said that you and your family live happily and satisfactorily, that in Croatia we have ministers living in Croatia who are a phenomenal place for life, but we must tell you that Croatia is not a desirable place to come, it is not a phenomenal place to live, because a large number of citizens live below, i.e. on the edge of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83828	We are going to ask number 14. Representative Silvano Hrelja will be asked by Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83829	Dear Mr. President, I would like to ask my question to the minister of the largest ministry in the Croats, as regards family pensions. So in our family pension today we have a circus of 220 thousand pensioners. These pensions are at an average level of 2200 kuna and are one of the most valuable pensions given the total individual and joint contributions to the pension system. Citizens have indicated that for a long time, EU countries have arranged this in a different way for someone to be entitled to the late spouse’s pension in addition to their pension. This was particularly common after 2013 because part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia felt that this should have happened through the automation of EU entry, which is not true. I tied my support to the government of the Republic of Croatia to the realization of this project two years earlier than previously planned. So, starting with the application of a new model in January 2023. In order to revive the family pension project within the deadline provided, it takes the right for all those who are retired or who will be retired, who will experience it, to regulate the laws. Only when something is governed by law becomes real law, and it has to happen here. Everything else is just wishes. I ask you, Mr. Minister, when the framework citizens of the Republic of Croatia can expect proposals for the law in the public debate, i.e. when the law will be sent to this House for discussion and adoption, or when it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83830	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83831	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative, MPs and MPs. When we talk about family pensions and the pension system, we should first and foremost highlight what the government has promised to implement in its programme and what the government will do. So, we have made it very clear that family pensions will, and I will agree with you, do not result in the adequateness that we expect. As a rule, between 10% and 15% are less than the other types of pensions and on this side of the adequateness, so definitely those 200, 214, 215000 citizens who receive them are most inadequately protected from poverty and poverty. When we talk about the entire pension system, this is the most important reform we will surely implement in this next period. What we have committed as Government is that we will do so through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and through other strategic documents, that we will do so in the period until the end of the term of office. Since the working group is already working very actively on this proposal, given that we have several modes to choose from, which will guarantee our citizens a rise in pensions, we expect to present by mid-year the bill and that it will be implemented, adopted and ultimately apply such higher family pensions from 1.1.2023. This is what we are committed to by strategic documents, we are working very actively on and I can say a little bit wider, but from the context of the portfolio that I am leading all those goals that we set for ourselves from the social security domain, we are doing it properly and we will be fulfilling it by the end of the term of office according to everything we have promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83832	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83833	So, if I understand it well because the public is interested in it by half this year we should see the laws, our citizens should be able to calculate for themselves what they can expect from it at the beginning of next year. I know this is a very demanding and extensive job because it starts here from nothing as many people think it's enough to push the button and that it can all be solved in no time. But I believe in our public insurance company, which is the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, which this year celebrates the 100th anniversary of the draft, that it is both professional and informatively ready to do this job. And I hope that soon we will see in public debate this bill. I am aware that neither you nor I, Mr. Minister, who advocates family pensions, will pass without beatings because he was not born who pleased everyone and who has met all expectations. Therefore, I am sure there will be criticism and great expectations, but it is simple time to do so, that we have one such institute in the same way as the countries of Western Europe. Peace insurance protects its citizens in case of age, sickness and death and has expressed solidarity among generations. This is not the solidarity of labour and labour, that those who did not pay, do not earn, and those who paid and did not earn. So it's the other way around. I will always advocate with new laws that those who paid more and more and with a certain level of solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83834	Now representative Sandra Bencic will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83835	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you said the other day I will paraphrasise that citizens are more or less themselves guilty of the state of the country because they see a glass half-empty. I hope, of course, that you appreciate that we looked at your interview on public television that you put on state television especially after we saw that you were affected by the fact that... Your statement that the citizens before they're pessimistic and see a glass half-empty received a truly worthy answer from our satirist Borna Sora who told you that the glass is neither half-empty nor half-full but has no glass, you stole our glass. When citizens tell you that you stole their glass, they tell you that you took their perspective, and you took their perspective with the continued privilege of allowing the minority that is tied to your elite and exploiting the majority that is not enough of yours. We have seen the consequences of that and your policies as a result of the census. All the hundreds of thousands of young people who have left have left for injustice and inequality. One such injustice has been taking place for years in front of you in the CNB, so you have allowed your own regulations to allow CNB employees and CNB directors to trade shares and bonds of those banks that regulate and supervise, those same banks that they were supposed to regulate in the Franak case, so that these banks had to pay the citizens back, maybe the shares would have fallen, the same shares held by CNB employees among other things. So I'm asking you, is it your responsibility that you failed to regulate the HNB 2020 Act and that you consider it responsible for the CNB that it did not internally regulate And prevent this kind of behavior? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83836	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83837	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bencic, I like this style of a minute and a half introduction to say everything that is excellent and good and anything you can praise the HDZ and HDZ government, and then ask the question that is here, let's just say this has nothing to do with HDZ. That's what I told you the other day, and you obviously follow the interviews were on public television or were on some commercial, but that's good, so for you and similar I never told you that HRT was a state institution but I was talking about different institutions, yesterday I counted them all who certainly aren't all state-owned, but the institutions that exist and there's a clear trend in the last 12 months that systematically according to this Parisian tactics that Mrs. Selak is talking about are destabilising, it's someone who's dealing with politics very clearly so that there's nothing worth it, precisely on the trail of your narrative about not having any perspective in Croatia. So, all this time since we've been in power, and we have six years of citizens' trust fighting so with Agrokora who's been up to us, with a shipbuilding crisis that's been up to us, with floods, fires, earthquakes that are up to us, with a pandemic that's next to us, with the assurance that in a crisis like this, even on one of the portals that's not normally some big HDZ fan today was a very good article about how Croatia's been going economically over the past two years, that's interesting, and you're following everything and you're going to read it. As far as our goal is concerned, he's just the opposite of what you're saying, which is doing everything for the citizens, not ours and yours, not some of us to give the benefits, and others as you used the term to exploit, you brought us back not knowing us at the time of high school and some of the ancients, but it's all okay. As for the CNB, so the government's position, the HDZ position, and your colleagues, I don't know, I don't see that Grozdan here at this point is to check it all out, so she also called a meeting or asked for an indication on behalf of the HS Finance Committee that the CNB is being shown on the subject discussed on the air. I expect that after these indications, it will be discussed because I remind the leadership of the CNB Council to appoint HS, it is not appointed by the government. As for the specific case concerning the governor, I've known him for a long time I have no reason not to believe that there would be something different in reality from what he said publicly, and he told me. He said he had shares of two banks that he had sold before he was appointed, before you'd be careful now for 20 years at the time of the CNB's leadership, as one of the vice governors, so something that was 20 years ago and he says he sold them before. Therefore, whether this whole topic is linked by chance to the last 11.5 months of decision making and final preparations for Croatia's entry into the euro area, so in order to possibly decrepitise whether the reputation damage to the CNB through possibly some moves or failures of leadership might lead to the question of Croatian membership in the euro area, I will let you analyse it, I will not say it, you will analytically assess whether it has any connection or not. In any case, we want the competent authorities, which are, above all, HANFA and the general control of trading in securities, HANFA to check everything and that when they check that we bring the courts. I can only read this data from the media, I have no other way of knowing what it is and what it isn't. As regards higher internal regulatory standards The CNB that absolutely should have been before, and if it wasn't [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I need it now. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83838	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83839	Well, thank you, Prime Minister. I have to say, this one would be nice to rest like this in your head for a few days and think that everything is actually great in this country and it's going great, and citizens actually see it all the wrong way. You see, when you answered this question, you brought up again the thesis that actually corresponds to conspiracy theories. So it's not a problem that CNB employees and directors trade shares of banks that they regulate but is a problem, the problem is that someone saw and said, that's the problem. Some actors who want to demonstrate the CNB we are in the process of joining the Eurozone, not the problem in the DORH, the problem is in those who see the problem in the DORH, not the problem in HRT, the problem is with those who see it. It's not a problem with the standard in Croatia, it's a problem with citizens who keep beating that he's not good for some unknown reason. This transfer of responsibility to others is not a mark or a leader, nor someone who apparently has an ambition to be a statesman. And that is why I call on you for the benefit of all Croatian citizens to accept sometimes criticism, to see where you are wrong and to announce accordingly a change in direction, and also to change some people sitting here because this way of refusing responsibility and transferring responsibility to citizens will not be you, and neither will we all come anywhere together. So when you talk about the CNB you need to know that you are not talking about Vujčić, you are talking about that he missed out on it to regulate for his employees, now that 40 and some of them were trading not on bonds, but on shares of banks worth more than 10 million kuna. The same banks they oversee and regulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83840	Thank you, thank you. This is the president or chairman taking care of the weather, so don't worry. Let's move on, now it's up to counterpart Ivan Penava, who will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83842	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, Honourable Croatia, the loss of 400,000 people in 10 years or a year is more than twice as many as the total victims of 2 Homeland wars that lasted 5 years. The theme of all subjects and one pure national disaster. Of the 10 years the census includes you're Prime Minister 5 in power, so half of it if you'd watched it is yours. This disaster I am quite sure of is beyond the possibilities of the ruling coalition and it is now proven, it is no longer I think this, you what it is now in one brutal or worst possible way proven by the results of the census. I am not going to direct you and your predecessors to the former Prime Ministers the hard words of criticism, which I should also have the right to base on the results of your government's work, but also on all governments so far, just for the reason that I consider this disaster to be beyond any government or any current one, and I think it concerns all of us and requires the commonity of all national forces. I ask you, but I also call on you to urgently disband the current government and bring together all political forces in the country but also professional and scientific ones that can contribute to the resolution of these devastating tendencies because, as I was saying at the outset, this is the subject of all topics. By that you can, by that act you can restore faith in Croatian politics [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Or we can keep pretending we're doing okay. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow Penava.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83843	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83844	Thank you, Your Honor, Commissioner Penava, for me to try to decrypt what you say, is that you, as a 10-year-old HDZ officer, are offering us a coalition. It's the only way I can read it. So, you are and you will remember this well you were 10 years in HDZ, we have all warm, collegiately helped you win 2014, myself personally, then you had nothing against being supported by the representatives of Serbs in Vukovar, though, I think you should remind and know, and we have done everything from the heart, partly because of what you were then our party and our mayor of Vukovar, but first of all for Vukovar and for the sake of Vukovar. We've done all these last six years to improve our lives in Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County. I often talk to many of you who are here and I know of especially some other mayors who also had very serious consequences during the Homeland War. They said when you guys just a little bit about how much Vukovar you're helping me, they'd be happy. These are the truths and facts and it's not my statement but the statement of your colleagues, I can see that many here nod their heads and know what I'm talking about, but let me be happy that we helped Vukovar, I'm happy for everything that Vice President Bear did. And on the site of a special pitet and on the fact that we are worthy of marking the 18th of November and on the fact that Vukovar Hospital is a memorial hospital and on the fact that we have implemented projects from the first government session outside Zagreb, we deliberately came to you and for Vukovar's sake on November 17th 2016, and 3 weeks the government was not then young, in Vukovar with the idea, with a message that we are here with you, that we have increased the funds of the Vukovar fund from 40 to 74 million, that a billion and 550 million contracted European funds, I will not now list the other projects and we have done everything to help you and we will do tomorrow with heart, open and be part of our cooperation. And you know it. Now, before today, you two not in today's question make us all here the most corrupt ever, but that's not working. Here's my hand of cooperation, but at the same time, it can be done with HDZ a year and a half ago, but we won't have Plenkovic. Well, you're the one who threw yourself out of the calculations to be partners in this government, yourself. And we have to do it again, you're even on election night when you saw that you won't matter for 76 you repeat, so how will I help you if you tell yourself that? Would you as president of the Homeland Movement only a year and a half or two as long as you were in it after you wanted to be vice president of the HDZ so you failed, became Tomo, if you went to coalition with someone who said you could do the Homeland Movement, but you can't Penava, how could it be, where there is it, I don't know it anywhere comparatively, national, historically, futuristically, there's no such thing. That's why these issues about disbanding and forming everything not, the government got trust in the elections when they were, the parliamentary majority is stable, we face problems, we don't run away from them and we don't transfer the responsibility of MP Bencic to someone else, or we might have run from covid, Agrokor, earthquakes, we haven't, we haven't run from anything, we work in everything. As far as the census is concerned, the problem is huge, long-term, I would also say Vukovar-Srijem County you are 7 years old. There or eight mayors up to you, it's not up to you, it's up to all of us, and I have to work together to solve it. That's where I'll give my hand of cooperation, but I won't disband the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83845	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83846	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister, so it would be given at the personal level to discuss it now, but it wasn't at all a subject, nor is it a question, but here only in 10 seconds as your HDZ 2016. I told you nicely in Vukovar and warned you to die. I didn't stop at it, although we even worked in one part and together, unfortunately we didn't get past the Law and about encouraging investment, so I remember Mr. Pervan as an investor and hundreds of jobs in that part because I was aware that we were sinking and we were going to sink, I was aware this day that he would come, just as I am aware that there would come a lot worse days if we didn't break up. However, these are all some things and the past and some things and the relationship of private or semi-private conversations or so on. The question involved specific exact catastrophic data on population drains. Why? Of course, I've been very careful, I haven't used hard words, nor do I think the heritage is exclusively your government, but you definitely have one big pain in it. The way and measures you've been taking so far and the way you're going doesn't indicate that we have the right to hope for anything better. If we're going to bring this debate down to the mere outwitting of who's gonna be more humorous or who's going to frame and put it into a dead end then we can continue to outsmart, about what we've been doing all these years before. This seriousness right now requires something completely different, which is to sit down at the table and get the best of what's on that table and make decisions as it goes on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83847	The 17th issue of MP Nada Murganic will ask Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medveda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83848	Thank you very much. Dear Representative HS, the government's honourable representative, ministers and ministers, welcome. The question is to ask Vice President Tommy Bear and the Croatian Defence Minister. You have been head of the Croatian Defence Ministry for more than six years. and during your term of office, they passed and derived from the ministry significant laws aimed at improving the status of Croatian defenders of the victims of the Homeland War with the aim of improving their quality of life and their families and this is more than public and out of reach. However, the defence population is an extremely vulnerable group of our citizens, a very sensitive psychophysical health condition. It is also a population with some estimates of a shorter life span than the rest of the population, and they certainly need one special attention there too. Therefore, in your ministry, therefore, another very important document has been brought to our Ministry of Croatian Defence, which is the National Program of Psychosocial and Medical Assistance for Defence, for their families and in general for the victims of the Homeland War. My question is Ministers, whether and to what extent this programme is implemented, are you satisfied with the cooperation of all the actors in charge of the implementation of this programme and certainly the response of those to whom the programme is intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83849	Deputy Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83850	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, Your Honor, President HS, thank you for your question. Before the answer, then, another review of the time in which we live. In fact, just 4 days ago, we marked the 30th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia and the occasion which we, as a society, especially thanked the Croatian defenders for the freedom we have today in Croatia. Here is the 6th year in a row our government has put special emphasis on protecting the health of Croatian defenders because the war undoubtedly left consequences on the health of Croatian defenders. The prerequisite for the measures we bring is the systematic monitoring of the health of Croatian defenders, we are really intensively doing this and we are taking a number of measures, all of which we are doing in collaboration with the Croatian Medical Faculty in Zagreb. What I set out as one of the basic preconditions is availability as the key to finding a suitable response to specific needs, and especially at this time of the pandemic, the time we live in. Of course, there is a particularly vulnerable group in the defence population, such as older Croatian defenders or Croatian defenders who live as singles and socially isolated Croatian defenders. It is important in this whole process to single out the extremely good cooperation that our Government and the Ministry of Croatian Defence have with Associations from the Homeland War where we direct associations to the integration of Croatian defenders and accessibility. Especially through this programme, which you have listed, I am detaching the programme of preventive medical examinations that we implemented three years ago in practice with almost 30 health institutions. And on this occasion, I thank these institutions that, although operating in extremely demanding circumstances during the pandemic period, find space and time to continue the programme of implementing preventive medical examinations and with the aim of early detection of severe diseases. In the past three years, more than 80,000 Croatian defenders have gone through the programme and the results we are processing after these reviews, they point to the necessity of continuing this programme. What is also important is the effort we make with regard to the implementation of the medical rehabilitation we carry out in specialised health institutions. It is also important to separate the efforts we make with regard to the recognition of specific health institutions and to inform you that we have signed an agreement with the KBC Zagreb and that this year we will set up an open wound and decubitus centre, which is extremely important for the most difficult Croatian military disabled, as well as for the effort we make to establish our baro chamber, which we will do in Petrinja with our veterinary centre as a unique health service that is important for the most disabled patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83851	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83852	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased, of course, with the answer, but also with the fact that you can see from this data that the program is well targeted and that our defenders are using it anyway. And I think that this is also a very important topic that should be communicated more often in public, because, as we have said other than some material rights, health care is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83853	Let's go to the 18th issue of MP Marija Jelkovac will be appointed by the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83854	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. I welcome you all. Dear Mr. Horvat I have a question for you. The task of rebuilding the earthquake-affected area after the Zagreb earthquake and earthquake in Banovina is certainly the government's top priority at the moment, and especially the part concerning the restoration of the housing facilities of our fellow citizens whose facilities died in the earthquake. We have also received significant funds from the Solidarity Fund to help rebuild. As information about the use of these funds has been made public these days and related to the fact that most of these funds will have to be returned as unused, please give us an answer that is correct, as you expect, because this information is certainly important for those of our fellow citizens who expect to be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83855	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83856	Thank you, honourable parliamentary representatives and respected president of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives and MPs. Well, there's a lot of controversy, a lot of falsehood and a lot of information that isn't true, but some of them are said and I'd say naughty. So let's start from the very beginning. From the moment the earthquakes took place full engagement in the first step, so the assessment and recording of the damage not unprofessionally, not without any transport, not without experts from other countries, not without the World Bank and not without the construction and other colleges that helped us. What did that actually result in? In so far as both applications have been sent to Brussels with certain technical clarifications and analyses, which lasted from 3 to 4 months in Brussels on average, did not cancel a single figure, not a single item of the damage reported. What does that mean? That we first used a world-renowned methodology, that we included world-renowned experts in the assessment of the damage or in the assessment of the damage, that we made the assessment quality and that we made it through that assessment, and that the European threshold is 303 million euros, which is 0.6% of the total GDP of the Republic of Croatia, and from 303 million to the total amount of damage reported 6%. This resulted in two applications with a maximum amount of one of 680 and 3.7 and another 319.3m euros. After that, criticism is not a constructive criticism of bad criticism, but bad criticism can sometimes be declassified, and there have been such a few last few days very much. 30.12. The European Commission is paying the money. 5.1. competitions are being discussed. I return to the history of the Zagreb earthquake, 14 public calls, eight public calls as the executive bodies of the Resorna Ministry and six public calls in the four City of Zagreb, in two Krapina-Zagorska County and in one Zagreb County. And when you ask me as co-ordinator what dynamics these funds are spent on, I can read to you in each of the public calls how many applications have been submitted, how many contracts have been concluded and how many ZNS have come for processing, processing and money paid and can clearly explain to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and HS and explain which implementing bodies are spending this money with predictable dynamics, and where the problems are and where the implementation takes place. And also to speed up the process, we've brought in a rulebook that simplifies public procurement, and here for this bench, I've been criticised for bringing in a document that's been corrupt, so I call on everyone who sees that corruption as being reported because if you see it and you're apostrophetic, and you don't report it yourself. Any public procurement in an earthquake segment of more than 20,000 kuna It is transparently published in a public procurement advert on our portal as well. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83857	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83858	Dear Minister, I thank you for your response and for the information you have given and who must be interested in the entire public. I believe that we will use the maximum resources for the whole renovation, and that the priority in this period will certainly be to rebuild the family homes or housing units that are damaged by the earthquake and in which people are currently unable to live but are in temporary accommodation, and the worst are those who are in the so-called. The containers. And I am sure that both we and all of Croatia want those who return to restored homes as soon as possible and I believe that this administrative process is behind us and that in these days that are ahead of us this year, we will really see machines that will start building objects and that they will be completed as soon as possible that people will really be able to return to normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83859	Now it is up to MP Damir Bakic to ask the question of Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83860	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. So the question is really addressed to Minister Fuchs. The implementation of the project funded by the European Social Fund through the Operational Programme is under way, the Efficient Human Potentials of 2014-2020, which ensures the involvement of assistants in teaching in our primary and secondary schools for students with developmental difficulties. The total value of the project is higher than 170 million kuna, of which the grant amounts to 146 million kuna and that money is distributed to 52 cities and counties and to more than 850 schools. It is estimated that this covers about 5,000 students and perhaps about 4,000 assistants in the class. It is quite clear that this network of assistants in the follow-up actually matters where there is the most important element of support for our students with difficulty in continuing. The problem, however, is that the project ends on August 1st this year, so it ends with this school year and it is completely unclear, there are no announcements, no hints, even less guarantee that the funding of the assistants will continue from the state level in the next school year. And that's why my question is very, very simple and very specific. So will in 2022-2023 continue to fund state-level assistants from state resources? If to what extent and from which source? Will it be again through a public call and if so when that public call be called and when will we learn all relevant information? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83861	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83862	President-in-Office of HS, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished MPs and MPs, Honorable Representative Bakic. Yes, you said approximately exactly the figures to me, although the total amount for this year 195 is almost 196 million kuna, I have there and those funds of the ESF, and also the funds from the lottery funds that have been allocated mainly in this entire process were the founders who were in fact the specific needs for continuing assistants and no selection was made, so that they had, in principle, received this year as opposed to last year's school year, that amount was increased by some I think 85 million kuna compared to that last year, and we think alike and finally the programme and the government entered that system to support students who needed help to continue and financed it from this combination of funds. Yeah, we'll get on with that program because it turned out to be good. Let us negotiate and find funding opportunities from some other sources in the next period, and at this point I certainly cannot tell you how the financing structure will look, and I can say that we will continue with this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83863	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, only in part can we be satisfied with your answer, certainly your announcement that the efforts will be done, but I would say that it is not enough and it is not quite acceptable that we still, that at the end of the first half of this school year we do not know what will be further. So, in the last seven years, how long this system of funding of assistants in the European fund-raising process takes us to see the results and we see the significant progress that has been made and that is why our students with developmental difficulties are doing so, and that is why it is our job, and therefore our mission is fundamental to all of us, and that is why this system is not only safeguarding but to actually expand and strengthen it. As you know, local self-government simply doesn't have, local self-government, so cities and counties don't have the 170 and I would say even more millions of needed kunas to continue transporting students with developmental difficulties through this network of assistants, assistants in the follow-up. That's why state aid is necessary and I ask you and I urge you to come out with the details as soon as possible and make every effort to maintain this system at least at the same level as you've done so far. And finally one more thing, and that something is ultimately an insecure status of a teaching assistant. The Regulation lays down that contracts with persons performing teaching work and communications intermediaries may only be concluded for a specified period of time and only until the end of the current school year. We think it's actually very difficult, very discouraging and unfair and I call on you and I appeal that provision and that restriction regarding the end of the current school year to remove it from that rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83865	Let's go to Question 20, representative Katica Glamuzina asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83866	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, allow me to read briefly so that you do not misquote two sentences from a document drawn up by your government. Croatia's quality of scientific research still has room to advance when it comes to the number of influential scientific publications. The results of the scientific research system are modest and Croatia stands out with a large number of low-quality publications that make it the worst in the EU. That's what the NPOO says, not in that short version you showed us, but in the expanded version you've been hiding from us. I wonder if you've been hiding it from your party's leading man in the second largest city in Croatia because according to some Croatian portals, it seems that the president of your party in Split has no idea that we already have extra bad scientific publications, so he decided to give us another. For months now, we have been reading from the media how members of the HDZ have become engrossed in another Croatian system, this time the education system looks reunited because some write or plagiarize, some are sitting on commissions that approve and miss it all. I'm curious, please, what are you going to tell the students of EFOS to convince them that after all this their diplomas and dissertation won't be worth anything at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83867	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83868	Good afternoon, distinguished Glamuzine, thank you very much for asking. As for HDZ President in the second largest city in Croatia, it is about Mr. Vica Mihanović, so those who may not have finally followed the question of who you refer to, who defended the doctorate at the Faculty of Osijek, at the University of Osijek, and you all followed this topic that, with the strong support of you or some other political actors, I think of you as SDP in Split, potentiated, repeated, stressed more perhaps than any other topic. I had the impression that this was more important than the master plan for the development of Split made by the former Mayor Andro Krstulović Opara and which Mr. Puljak is now applying to a point. I even told him that at the meeting when I saw it because when we talked about projects, the plan wasn't good, but the projects are okay, so it's called packing what someone left behind, and someone else wouldn't want to see what the predecessor was doing going on, but good. As far as the doctorate is concerned, as far as I'm concerned, and as far as I'm concerned, the special commission that existed at the University of Osijek has reviewed this work, it has found that the doctorate is not a plagiarism here is the Minister of Science and Education who can say this and as far as we are concerned, that story is finished here. I have no reason to question the attitude of the people who said that, and I suppose they've been detailed in the content of that doctorate. Therefore, the topic was, of course, politically used against HDZ candidate for mayor of Split, the results are as they are. He is now a councilman in the city council, he will work on the well-being of Split, Split and Split and make his contribution as well as other council members in the City Council of Split. As far as science and education and NPOO are concerned, I believe that regardless of what you've shown us, and what you haven't shown us, you've seen the most important part, and the most important part is financial allocation. Here's the Minister of Science and Education. Croatia, which believes in its perspective, believes in its future, wants to show its citizens where to develop and monitor global trends, follows European trends, realizes that the green and digital transition is also green that there are no crowns of two runways on which we would practically start and end any conversation on the adaptation of the Croatian economy, and then the educated system of the future, so in this context, when we look at how to use the resources available to us, and we show that for science and education we will invest 7.5 billion kuna, 7.5 billion kuna, here is exactly the visa you, here is Minister Fuchs who is working on and who has the task of investing in and higher education, but also in education infrastructure to improve everything that is currently or inadequate, or that is outdated, and that Croatia in terms of development of the entire educational system will therefore be more from kindergartens to a higher level of education and academic education, where they will be better in the entire communities. You have here an academic Rainer, he is, for example, an example of excellent highly quoted scientific publications, there are such people and on the side of the opposition in the Parliament Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83869	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83870	Thank you. So, the answer is extremely unsatisfactory, which is what you are to the Prime Minister, I think I am aware of. When you mention your Minister Fuchs, let me quote him too, if I'm not mistaken, he said in the media that he never heard in his career that already the defensive dissertation is correct. So, maybe you shouldn't mention him. And another very important thing, please, I'm not in SDP. My only closeness with them is sitting in these benches because there's no other choice. In this whole situation,... All in all, don't steal my time, in this whole situation, what has become embarrassingly clear is why Croatian universities are so low on the world scientific scales. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Our entire system has been devalued, the scientific procedures that occur in Croatia have been violated, every doctor of science, including a colleague of Reiner, whom I personally respect, who is his own, and many others who have acquired their title fairly, have been defiled. I understand that your party officials at all levels... This all rationalizes and explains to people in academic science that they're not fools in front of whose eyes all this is happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So already defended, corrections of already defended dissertation write the university instead of the authors, and your Vice clean as a tear, pure as tears and a real trender in the world of science. The first doctor of science with whose dissertation you get instructions to use. Oh, great, congratulations on that membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83871	We are now going to the 21st question, MP Krunoslav Katičić will be appointed by the Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83872	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question, as has been pointed out in the opening statement, to the Minister of Justice and Administration, Mr Ivan Malenica. Dear Ministers, the presumption of innocence, would dare to state one of the fundamental human rights of the opposition ranks, like to call for that fact and the rule of law and the protection of human rights and protection in the accession of all institutions to any state. But, of course, that's not what happens when it comes to HDZ members. The end of last year, in a long-standing court trial, one of our members was legally released. For him, as well as many other HDZs, the presummation of innocence did not apply, especially in public space. In view of these confabulations on the HDZ judiciary and the frequent minorisation of public presummation of innocence, how do you view the situation and do you think about the way in which this situation is handled?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83873	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83874	Thank you very much, President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives, MPs, distinguished MPs and MPs. So, I'd like to introduce an article. 28 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that everyone is innocent and no one can be found guilty of a criminal offence, until a judicial verdict finds him guilty, so it is the beginning and end of every court case, it applies to everyone and anyone who reduces the presumption of innocence, who convicted the person before the trial even began, has deeply violated the constitutional legal order and it actually destroys trust in the institutions. I have said it several times, and I will repeat here, the key to change in the judiciary is to restore trust in the institutions, and we will now achieve this by restoring, i.e. by strengthening all institutions, from courts, state lawyers, USKOK and the Ministry of Justice and Administration, through changes in the legislative framework, through certain organisational changes, through certain development projects. I would just point out, here's how soon there will be changes to two important procedural laws here in the House, so the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution, so we modernise the court procedure, introduce digital technology, remote hearing, tonic recording, so we're introducing some elements that will certainly help speed up court proceedings. Also, we worked actively in the last year to strengthen the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, and we changed the coefficient for financial investigators, but I would also point out that over the past 5 years we have invested 200 million kunas in the digitisation of the judiciary itself, and more than 500 million kunas in the judicial infrastructure, and this is actually the basis and basis for further progress and through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, so we are going to further invest in the judicial infrastructure and digitisation of the judiciary itself. So we are actually doing what the executive authority should do, which is to ensure that judicial and judicial officials can do their job uninterruptedly, professionally, independently, without any pressure on their work. So HDZ's judiciary is only one mantra, so HDZ has no influence on the judiciary, so the executive power is only there to ensure working conditions, to provide enough financial investigators and prosecutors in the D.O.R.H. and judges and judicial advisers and other officials in the courts themselves, and therefore to create a prerequisite for courts to do their job, to judge.../incomprehensible/... that judges judge professionally and independently, and also to act as prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83875	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83876	Your Honor, I thank you for your reply. I think that there are some other things that should be pointed out in particular, although it may already be considered a certain post office, that exactly what you said, all the efforts that the Croatian judiciary is making are commendable and are very much contributing to what seems to be being treated according to the principle of presumption of innocence. I think it is also important to strengthen the awareness of all stakeholders, especially those who act, who decide on some kind of citizens' rights, especially those who decide in judicial cases. To be clear, it is mainly about procedures that have a criminal character, so the responsibility of each of these responsibilities, which make decisions in such cases, is greater. Therefore, I think it is necessary to work on further education and it is of the utmost importance that those persons, when making their own or national decisions or other decisions, are not subject to the interest or any media influences or what the public is saying because only such behaviour is guaranteed that we will all have the legal conduct of the institution of those who represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83877	Let's go to 22 questions now, Commissioner Marijana Puljak is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83878	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, a lot of colleagues have already been ordered here, a fetish by fetish, I hope, I believe you are, in fact, tired of that googling and looking for if all here is a demonizer whether the state is and destabilizing and destabilising the state that you're so stablely leading. I believe that Croatia would certainly not be at the bottom of the EU or 400,000 people would leave Croatia if you were not attacked by the opposition. But let's ask a question, my question to you today should also be with the CNB and this affair, according to which the heads of the CNB employees allegedly traded shares and bonds of banks that oversee and thus were in the potential abuse of privileged information. In the meantime, however, we have received frightening and devastating results from the census, so I wanted to ask you about it, do you have any information on how many HDZ members are in office in a ministry, public enterprise or institutions that have moved out of Croatia over the past 10 years? At the same time, however, we learned again about the fact that there is inflation of PhD at the Faculty of Economics in Osijek, their number is almost the same as at the university in Zagreb which is 3 times larger, so we also had a whole van of HDZ on the way to Osijek, but then we learned that there is no renewal, and you continue to hold in your place a minister whose only and most important task was to carry out that renewal. So I wanted to know what you thought about it, but then we saw on the Internet that HDZ's head of state offered a girl a job in exchange for sex, so I got sick of it. So I don't really have anything to ask you and I'm giving up the parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83879	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83880	Thank you very much for not having a question and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83881	Then you probably won't even show yourself, will you? Okay. Then let's go to counterpart Pejo Grbin, who asks the government's president again, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83883	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, I have a question for you because there is one topic that at this point is for our society, for people above all in Zagreb, but also for Banija, which we have not received a decoded answer from you. Some year ago, when we found that Croatia will be made available from the Solidarity Fund for 5 billion kuna, you spoke of overbooking of funds. You were talking about how it wouldn't be close enough, how it would all be spent. 13 months later, unfortunately, it did not happen. Why unfortunately? Because that money isn't here because of you, that money isn't here because of me, it's because he's used to do part of what got hurt in the earthquake to fix it. That money is there for citizens and citizens of this country to ensure that hospitals are repaired, that schools can work. But what is controversial is whether Croatia will be able to withdraw those funds. And now we have very contradictory information, you say a few days ago we're going to ask for an extension, the European Commission said last week that the deadline cannot be extended because the regulation establishing the Solidarity Fund clearly stands for 18 months, that is, in the case of Croatia 17.6. However, your Minister Horvat says deadlines are not the Holy Scriptures, your political secretary of the assembly says today so deadlines can be extended. So I'm asking you, how much money is it going to take? until 17.6. is spent and can be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That deadline extend? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83884	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83885	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Grbin, I'm glad you have any questions other than your colleague. I'm the apropo questions that were referred to the state administration asked Minister Malenica to check some of the data we heard this morning and it seems to me that the accuracy of that data is far from true, but it's the minister who's going to explain the structure, but I'm not going to bother you with that right now. As for the earthquake, reconstruction, various sources of financing of the damages that have taken place, to repeat, the first earthquake in Zagreb, unfortunately, has caused more than 85 billion kuna damage. The second earthquake in Banovina had damages greater than 40 billion kuna. Total estimated damages are 129 billion kuna. As Minister Horvat just said, the damage assessment was done according to internationally-verified technology of experts who deal with it and even with the help of the World Bank so that it would not be some cost that only we see, they are seen by those who have comparative experiences. As far as the request for the Solidarity Fund is concerned, he was on time within the 12 weeks provided for by the regulation. The funds are according to the European Commission's assessment, 683 million for Zagreb, 319-20. Millions for Banovina and those funds are there. The entire institutional structure was created in line with the government's decisions, so the national co-ordinator for the job is Minister Horvat, as his ministry is the Ministry of Construction who deals with reconstruction. The executive bodies in the area of the City of Zagreb, I will mention only the most extensive ones in terms of carrying responsibility for the implementation of projects are the Ministry of Science for Educational Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health of Health and Health, the Ministry of Culture for everything related to heritage, the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb very important not only for the continuation of the projects of the late Mayor Bandić when it comes to rebuilding schools but for everything else, for all other costs of infrastructure which are very much and which can certainly be declared, and here I call on these critics the whole process to be involved and to declare everything they need to declare through the Solidarity Fund plus other resolutions of the MUP, civil protection, part that needs to be girlsed by the Ministry of Economy, Energy, etc., most of these costs is very much. We are in line with that same provision that the state can assess that the original philosophy of the regulation that exists... the return to the former state is pointless here, so to return to the original state of the buildings that are old and which would, after investing in them, return them to the original state without construction renewal so as not to let God happen to us by chance, the earthquake would fall again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This doesn't make sense, so we said we're going to use the EUSF to the level that will finance what is back in the past, and this rest will go either through the NPOO, through the World Bank, through the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Council of Europe Development Bank or some other form of financing including budget or funding from domestic banks. As far as the deadline itself is concerned, he has been in a regulation for 18 months, but as the minister said, it is important to explain to the Commission the circumstances, one earthquake, another earthquake, covid, and the fact that they went along with their consent in construction reconstruction. And that's why I think we're gonna explain our argument and we're gonna do a good job of using the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83886	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83887	Thank you, Mr. President. Now it is clear that you are unable to give a clear answer to simple questions. I asked you how much of these 5 billion kunas will be invested, invested by 17.6., you either don't know or you don't want to answer. Both show catastrophic crisis management or catastrophic recovery management. I am pleased, however, that you have pointed your finger at Mr. Horvat as the most responsible national coordinator exactly and that we are not even able to withdraw from the Solidarity Fund the funds that have been made available to us, I will not say donated, available. I am glad, however, and that you took responsibility for saying what we wanted to hear from you that you would continue to insist and ask for that deadline to be extended. If that deadline is not extended I expect from you, personally, that the fact that you have repeatedly announced what only one phone call was supposed to be enough if it doesn't happen that you will take responsibility for it. And the last thing to do is not just stay on the line. I have a constructive proposal for you to speed up the restoration that stands, and this proposal is in each of those 10 thousand, several ten thousand buildings, in each of those ten thousand buildings that were killed in the earthquake put one Fruku-Petesic and in that case, there will be no problem because we see how whenever you want, when there is a personal interest then the restoration can go very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83888	Thank you very much. Let's go to Question 24, representative Josip Begonja asks him to the defence minister, Mary Banožić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83890	I would like to thank President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister Banožić, behind us has been successful in 2021, the year in which I would say unexpected high economic growth and good tourist season, but also the year in which you signed a contract for the acquisition of multi-purpose battleplanes Rafal 4th generation, which is a significant contribution to the modernisation of our armed forces. However, today at the beginning of the '22s, I am interested in what are the plans, what are the programmes, what activities and goals you have drawn for this current year that should be achieved with regard to further modernising the armed forces, otherwise improving the material financial status of members of the armed forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83891	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83892	President-in-Office HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for this question about the interest in HV. The year, despite being challenging, has shown excellent economic indicators, but also one further process in which HV would develop. This process, you will be familiar with it in time here in HS, first of all through two documents that will be brought here to vote. The first long-term plan is the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, a strategic document containing all those guidelines that are in relation to the positive legislative and strategic guidelines that we currently have in the Republic of Croatia but also one tool of projects that will firstly be priorityd in cooperation with the Chief Staff on all the necessary future investments for the next ten-year period with certain financial projections. So, he will get his weight above all in clear carriers, clear sources of funding, clear dynamics just to avoid situations like this for the past 20 years that many times change the direction towards modernising investments and certain military locations, which definitely reflects today on the system that we have significantly higher investments or also missed time to realise certain NATO specific objectives. Next to him, i.e. Definitely the defence strategy that was adopted in 2002, the strategy is in itself, except for these positive regulations, also containing an analysis of the availability of the Armed Forces in line with the current challenges, but also with all the challenges that arise first from geopolitical situations, the security situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located in its environment. As we continue to invest in the projects that have started, you have mentioned multi-purpose combat planes where we will also make further investments in accordance with the contract signed with the Republic of France, or the French Ministry of Defence to carry out obligations, which is, in this year above all, the departure of our aircraft technicians, engineers in further training in France and the preparation of the infrastructure in which future aircraft will be located. Also next month should be the first helicopters we're switching from east to west technology. It's about two Black Hawks that we're currently in the signing of a contract for the first parking hangar. We are also conducting a procedure related to a workshop and hangar which should be realised before the end of this year or possibly in 2023 at the beginning. In this way, we invest in the infrastructure for projects already launched at the Ministry of Defence, but we also create privatisation of projects related to the accommodation facilities of the Croatian Army and all those accommodation facilities that are primarily related to further development, modernisation and equipment of the Croatian Army, but also to those of NATO specific objectives that stand for us as the Republic of Croatia. Among them are the combat vehicle of the infantry, but I also talk further about the anti-aircraft defense system, as well as the radar systems, as well as the drone systems and all that is needed to strengthen the land army. In addition, there are projects related to the Croatian Navy, the completion of coastal armored ships, but also plans in the inter-restrictive area, above all with other ministries where we can see that more can be financed for the Croatian Navy, i.e. the Coast Guard and thus maintained the Croatian Navy. This approach I said will be clear through the strategic document, but also through the introduction of all parliamentary representatives in a way that will further invest in the Croatian Army for the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83893	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83894	Thank you. I'm pleased with the reply of the Honorable Minister. I believe that this year will also be as successful, that is, more successful in economic terms than the past in terms of tourism and in general economy. It is good to invest in modernising the material and technical resources of the Armed Forces, of course, and in material and financial problems to solve the members of the Armed Forces themselves so that combatability is at a higher level, so that the Republic of Croatia is also a good partner within the NATO Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83895	The 25th issue of MP Mirela Ahmetovic will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83896	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. As early as 4 months ago, on September 15th, I warned of the rise in consumer prices and energy, and I asked Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Mr Tomislav Ćoric what the government plans to do to ease the impact on Croatian citizens and the economy that follows. The minister said the government is monitoring price growth and will respond in time and do everything possible to protect entrepreneurs and citizens. Today, from month to month, we witness a rise in prices still 3.8%, 4.8%, in December 5.5%. The more the winter squeezes, the more the cold squeezes, the more the prices rise. On 13 October 2021, the European Commission therefore offered EU members a set of measures that could be used to protect their economies and citizens. Emergency support for household income, state support for businesses, targeted tax cuts. A number of EU member states and, as early as last year, introduced some of the concrete measures in this package – Hungary, Spain, France, Italy, not to mention. My question to you is what measures, when and for which contingent of entrepreneurship and household do you intend to take? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83898	Thank you, well-respected MP Ahmetovic. As regards energy or gas prices, electricity above all, and oil derivatives, we should first put into context the situation in Croatia and compare it with some other countries. So why is this increase in energy prices reflected in the entire chain sequence of reactions? We have covid, we have a disturbance in the supply chain system, we have a different situation in terms of supply and demand. Now demand is high, recovery globally dynamics it. Prices have increased, gas has increased several times compared to the price it was purchased by distributors earlier. It all reflects on electricity prices, of course. Croatia, unlike other members of the Union, and we all have different situations when it comes to households, has not seen a rise in electricity prices. Our citizens, families, households have not yet experienced a rise in electricity prices. You all know that on accounts you have, they won't live to see them until April 1st. It's the same thing with the price of gas. Certain business entities that did not have contracts where they had a guaranteed price in the medium term have an increase in gas prices, and perhaps many who sit here know that. However, it is more of a question of their responsibility in the conclusion of a type of contract with a distributor. The government not only monitors but the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and, in this particular case, the Ministry of Labour, but also some other independent institutions such as HERA, how to make a package of measures that will consist essentially of three elements, this first one I will put as zeros if next week we estimate that there will be a further rise in oil prices, we will once again bring the regulation limit the price for everything other than Premium fuel, so this is the first measure. These others are based on three groups of measures, one is to continue with benefits for the socially endangered, you know that there is this fee, it is used by around 64,000 households, the amount is 200 kuna, so to help the cost of directing those who have the lowest income, which is about 100 to 115 million kuna per year. In the event of an increase in household prices, we will raise that fee, so this is the first for those who are the most socially vulnerable. The second element at our disposal is the role of HEP and when it comes to the price of electricity and when it comes to the price of gas. In a situation where these current 13 other distributors in these 33 or 34 distribution areas are unable to deliver gas to their users we can always rely on a key company in 100% ownership, which is HEP and there it can use mechanisms and its portfolio to take part of it on its backs to contribute to reducing the impact on citizens. The third element is entering what is called VAT which today is 13% on electricity, on gas is 25 and with all calculations brings a package of measures that will minimise the impact on citizens, and then accordingly on the economy. Here's what your friend Minister Coric would have told you if you'd asked him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83899	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83900	Thank you very much. Judging by the experience with Minister Coric, who is funny and my questions and questions of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because he laughed at it for the last time, and here for four months, it turns out that I am right because his price is constantly rising, and neither you nor your friend Minister Coric are doing anything about it. I'm glad I asked you a question. When you talk about rising gas prices, it does not grow because it is regulated, do not deceive the public, it is regulated until 1.4. Where's the prime minister that gas-cheaping is by building LNG, where's the security of supply? What are you talking about? You deceive the public all the time in a very, very boastful way. What do you think citizens are going to eat electricity and gas, that's what you're talking about? So whether the price rises or not, whether the increase in gas prices or not will pay for the increase in basic food prices. It doesn't matter to you because you have it for you. You say that Croatia is as affected as all EU countries, though, haven't we joined the world map as a very large and important player in the gas map of the world? How is Croatia now affected the same as all EU countries? Compensation for the socially endangered, you say you'll continue with them. Well, you'd better shut them down. So whose common sense are you playing with? Think about your answers, think about your way of performing in this House because your shares are falling, not only in public, but also in your own party. It seems my comparison with Sanader wasn't exactly as utopia as you thought when I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83901	Let's move on, 26th issue of MP Nikolina Baradic will ask Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83902	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, Honored Minister Beros. Since there was a overlap between the 4th and 5th wave of coronary viruses currently in the 5th wave, there are 1,800 hospitalized patients and 220 of them on the respirator, and the number of newly infected varies from 5 to 10,000 per day. So my question to you is what is the current situation in hospitals, are hospitals still overloading and have enough resources to treat all patients infected with covid and those who are not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83903	The reply of the Honorable Minister Willy Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. Before answering your question specifically, I would tell you the current epidemiological moment as you believe and heard today with the number of newly infected, we have again set a non-famous record, there are 10,427 out of 20,292 done PCR tests, but we also have 5,590 positive on fast antigen tests from 22,344. So it's about extremely high numbers as we expected, and what we are mainly trying to adapt by changing the testing strategy. But what is satisfying at this point is that today we have 1,796 patients hospitalized, which is four less than yesterday, but yesterday was 37 more than the previous day. But we can still see that this dynamism of hospitalization is present at this point, and most importantly, we don't have an increase in the number of hospitals, given the increase in the number of newly infected. Since we are somehow coming out of this time frame in which the number of hospitalized patients is being monitored, I believe that this will be a good sign, especially when we look at the context of the second wave that was peaked in the year 20.12.2020 when we had 2,976 hospitalized or peaks of the fourth wave on 29.11.2021 when we had 2,598 hospitalized. So today's 1,796 is much less than then. However, as a concrete answer to your question I will tell you as well as so far that we are trying to monitor epidemiological trends, we are trying to adapt quickly and concentrate some of the capacity towards Covid-19 positive patients, but we always leave part of the capacity for those of our vulnerabilities and providing normal health care. This one flexibility and fast transition guarantee us as we have so far in all waves in a manner adequate health response. I am proud that it has never happened at any point that one of the patients has been thanked by the respirator, that he could not have been admitted, and even now, as you said at the moment of overlapping the fourth and fifth waves, we are witnessing the increased burden of individual health institutions, for example, as in Split, where we show solidarity as a health care system, so we have provided 18 nurses who have gone to Split. Also last week, Zadar sought out three new respirators. Thus, by mobilizing both the people and the material technical equipment, we have been responding to boredom, we will also respond in the future to all these great demands ahead of us. What should be further said in the context of the arrival of a new variant, or omicron, that it is completely clearly highly contagious, that it is spreading faster, but at this point it does not seem to cause more severe clinical images which, in the context of the acquisition of general immunity of the population, could be very good. However, we have no choice but to follow the epidemiological situation from day to day and find appropriate answers to the elements ahead. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83905	Thank you. Dear representative Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83906	.../The speech room is subsequently included./... forgets how the greatest pressure of the pandemic is the health system that you manage, i.e. doctors, nurses and technicians who daily save people from the path of death, which is very difficult to deal with. You mentioned in your answer how it is evident that quality crisis management, that we have ensured the stability of the health system that has not collapsed due to the pandemic, and now it is a responsibility to everyone, and also to thank and respect for those who have borne the greatest burden of being responsible, we are vaccinated and we are able to fight the pandemic effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83907	27 questions will be asked by the respected representative Romana Nikolic, the minister of justice and the administration of Dr. Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83908	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Malenica, we have been witnessing the corruption affair in Kutina for months about the purchase of city councilors by the mayor of Kutina himself who, after the discovery of the affair through audio records, is the only thing that he did well was written out of HDZ. Over the vice-president of the city council, USKOK is conducting tests for the employment of a son in Eco Moslavina whose price was to raise a handle for the city's budget. The president of the city council was also involved and exposed even though he resigned as city council president, he remains in the post, is not adequately punished for what he did but is the opposite of even being rewarded by a supervisory board and once, one of the city's firms. Then who in this whole situation is the most punished? The only director of Eko Moslavine has been punished, who reported to USKOK in July last year the crimes of the trafficking of those persons and whose courage has actually exposed the entire corrupt chain in Kutina, in the city where you are in power. All this kind of reminds me of the case of Mrs. Ankica Pretty, the woman of the big heart and the even greater courage that unfortunately left us for good yesterday. Mrs. Lepapi will remain remembered as someone who, because of her conscience and responsibility, has become the victim of HDZ's shameful persecutions. And your party often boasts of fighting corruption with all its strengths. Did you accidentally formulate the message because it actually seems to me that you're fighting for corruption? If you continue to claim that you are fighting corruption, I wonder if you will show on this example how you do it in practice and how you will punish those who have used their position to gain personal benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83909	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83910	Thank you very much for asking the question. On several occasions, the Prime Minister and I have personally pointed out that the fight against corruption is something that we are constantly working on, and in this direction are going to change a series of laws, as are also going towards strengthening the judicial institutions that work and which are involved in all these processes, above all, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the USKOK. The work of these institutions in this particular case cannot be talked about, therefore there are and certain investigations are carried out which are secret, so the bodies act, but would mention another thing, it is the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, etc. The whistle-sniffing law. So, I would point out that in 2019, among the first, among the EU Member States, we have passed this law, we have set up elements or framework for the protection of applicants of irregularities, and we are now in the amendments to that law and further strengthening this framework and protecting the applicants themselves. Here next week, at the end of next week, this law will come here to the Croatian Parliament and you will see in fact how this government, as the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the administration strengthens the legislative framework, protects whistles and thus actually shows its goal, so as much as possible to eradicate corruption, to protect so on. whistles. So here you wait next week and you will actually see the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity which has passed public consultation and you will actually see how this government protects whistles and how it enables the reporting of irregularities and also all other elements of the fight against corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83911	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83912	Thank you. Of course I'm not happy with the answer, because the answer was a pattern. How serious the situation is that there really is a reasonable suspicion of criminal offences and information is coming or the current mayor is until further notice. As you continue to claim to be fighting corruption, I will try to explain to you what it really should look like and I'm surprised you didn't wave to me with your anti-corruption document, but I understand you because obviously you know that the only thing that's dead is the letter on paper. And as for the announced whistle bill, he's only about not protecting the applicants. The Social Democrats Club has already studied it. Dear Ministers, the fight against corruption is fought by the harsh punishment of those who have abused their power with the aim of ensuring for themselves or someone who is wrongfully guaranteed what they do not deserve or what they do not deserve and should be punished very sharply so that others no longer think about corruption, let alone do it. Corruption is not fought against the ministers so that the person who showed up and reported the crimes that silenced her, discriminated and chicanned her. Corruption is not particularly fought by the so-called "Corruption". The whistles deny the right to work, cancels the Labour Treaty as it happened in the Kutina. What kind of message do you actually send to citizens while punishing those who reported the crime, you know how? Shut up and watch corruption and injustice because if you report it, you'll turn out to be an even bigger criminal. Gentlemen, if you continue with your anti-corruption policy, the only thing we can expect is an increased number of corruption affairs and an even greater decline in the number of population of the Republic of Croatia, because it is really more for people to be part of an elitist and unfair society for which you and your party deserve the head and beard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83913	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected MP Ivan Celic to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and Ministers, I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Interior Dr. Davor Bozinović. On January 12th, the European Commission asked for the strengthening of the mandate of the Drugs Agency and, on that occasion, Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson pointed out that drug trafficking remains the largest criminal market in the EU. Organized drug crime is a multinational problem that promotes corruption and murder, the gang is increasingly skilled in the distribution of illegal drugs, but also in the production of substances that have yet to be categorized. We are witnessing that last week, Croatian police seized 220 kg of heroin and 62 kg of cocaine in a demanding action at the port of Ploče. In addition to the good results in the area of drug crime prevention, I wonder what the results of police in the detection of corruption crimes, organised crime in particular war crimes, were the results of police work in the past year worse or better than in previous years and if they were better or worse than that? In addition to this, I'm curious about what you're doing in terms of strengthening the police and the security of the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83915	The response of the respected Interior Minister Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83916	Thank you very much, dear representative, for this matter and for the opportunity to dedicate a few sentences in the current hour to the work of the Croatian police as well. We know that police and police officers are coming into public space, and that's how it is in democracy, and when some kind of work fails, it gets a much bigger echo than what the results are, and the results when we talk about 2021. The Croatian police are that we have 16.7% less murder in Croatia, all resolved, that 10.2% less criminal acts of robbery, also with a high percentage of resolution, the highest in the last 10 years, and it is similar when we talk about heavy thefts 13.6%, the increase in criminal acts that fall within the domain of so-called. The dark crime where the investigative work of the police is actually being expressed, especially when we have organized crime on what you were talking about, is 11.6%, 37.6% is an increased number of human smugglers, so the Croatian police arrested already today probably 9 hundred smugglers who illegally want to transfer people who do not have the right to enter the Republic of Croatia through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about corruption, you mentioned it, and it continues on the previous issue 69.5% is the higher proportion of criminal charges filed against corruption than before, and when we talk about war crimes 100%, so 101 criminal charges for war crimes. So these are the results that are incomparable, we compare them to the last 10 years, but I would say for a much longer period. Now that we're talking about what the results are including these record-breaking drugs, cocaine is a record 790kg last year, heroin is a record 270kg, and for synthetic drugs, marijuana is a standard of over a ton of seized drugs, it's primarily about one comprehensive approach, one constant education, investing in these people who give a huge pain I would say stability especially in these difficult times of Covid crisis. Just compare the behaviour of the Croatian police as they resolve the security without any tensions of any challenging situation compared to other European police, so we see these videos daily on TV. So this is good and thank you for this moment and the opportunity to give recognition to these people, but also to highlight the continuation and education and equipment that is incomparable when we talk about money invested in the development of Croatian police compared to any period in the past. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83917	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am pleased with your response. So, the problem of migration, but also the problem of drug crime is high on the EU and European Commission agenda, and we can safely say that Croatia is a safe country on this issue that there is no open drug scene, such as in some Western European cities. In the end, I must also show satisfaction that you are appointed president of the Committee for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. We, who deal with this problem, expect as soon as possible the adoption of a national strategic framework to combat all forms of addiction and what is very important, therefore, that this time, instead of individual strategies where different resolutions have tried in their own way to solve this problem, we now have a united strategy for all forms of addiction, whether this new addiction, and the dependence on gambling is growing and greater public health, if you will and the security problem. So we hope that there will soon be a realisation and adoption of a national strategy and, consequently, the adoption of action plans to combat all forms of addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83919	Let's go to 29 questions now, Sinisha Hajdas Doncic's representative will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83920	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, above all, is the best in the New Year, and now the Honored Prime Minister of the Government, Croatia bought 12 planes, the French president came to Zagreb, the planes flew over to say Mark's Square, you drank hope of champagne, and not champagne, and in fact the question remains somewhere to hang in the air how much this job really costs. Therefore, the first mentioned amount of EUR 999 million, and it increased to EUR 100 million more, and finally we came to a billion and 200 million, according to the latest data available. Now, what I'm interested in, since you're the president of the party who said you're convicted of one part of political corruption and, as mentioned in the media, and what's been discussed by the French Commission, I'm going to say either the commission or the anti-corruption agency also some purchase of aircraft by India and some kind of invoice that went to France – India so publicly published data, I'm interested in one thing, so why don't you announce to the Croatian citizens that they know how much money was spent, which is what money was spent on, I think I'm saying it for your own sake, because of transparency, so I'm asking you whether you're going to publish that contract or not. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83921	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83922	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdash Doncic, and I wish you every good and your colleagues, but before I answer this question, I will still look back a little on your party president once as suspended as you who was not then rejected by the previous SDP variant rather than suspended. Then you and the great Social Democrats came, sophisticated, prone to dialogue, open, tolerated, tolerable, then you threw them out of window 18 even. So much so that one of your former colleagues says it's almost ugly sitting there among you. It's your aquis as the otherwise known applicant to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. I'll tell you that again while you're alive, I'm doing it on purpose. Why am I saying this? Because now we've been listening to Mr. Grbin's intervention, which takes place politely, culturally and even naturally interestingly, and then ends up at the head of the office of Mr. Frka Petjesic's office, then suddenly 2 metres and 10 turns to what one commentator says now that is no longer allowed on RTL in the baton, petty, meaningless, irrelevant, malice, malice worse than Bernardic which is not easy, which is politically not easy. So, this one, this one synthesis of such intalacies of the political that comes from your side, it's, I almost feel sorry for you, but it's good about the coat of arms. As far as your colleague Ahmetovic is concerned, imagine this, Commissioner Omis, who almost singled out the construction of a LNG terminal that provides Croatia 40 years later with a diversification of gas supply and energy security and autonomy now comes to me to impute attention at the end where she cares about gas prices, electricity prices, energy prices, everything we explain to her, she ends up even more fine and worse than the Grbs on Sander, not Anti but on Eve. And that's the résumé you get are range, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's the field of application of one or another version of whatever you want your colleagues. The lawsuit, I had to say something because somehow I'm almost a boring current watch, at least when it comes to issues of opposition. As far as you're concerned, imagine you're looking out for your research on Google India, France, Sarkozy may, some investigation, you, Mr. Hajdash Doncic, now go directly alluding to the corrupt workings between the president of the Croatian government, yes, yes, do not nod your head and president of France. So, the former suspended SDP vice president accuses the French president who is now there in the election campaign, I guess he came here to give me a bribe, and then I took him in and then we did the deal and let two Rafael fly and then we lifted the champagne and that's it. Are you out of your mind? Do you know Mr. Hajdash Doncic what the content of those contracts is? Were you on the Defense Committee when this topic was presented to everyone? I don't know if you were, maybe you weren't. If you were Mr. Vidovic, you'd be happy for it. I will suggest that Minister Banožić invite you all to the Department of Defense to look at it so that, in accordance with your intentions, you will release to the portals of the type of weapon that each The state in our atmosphere is happy to know what the contract says. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83923	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one being a colleague of Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83924	Thank you, Mr. President. He was injured among other things. 238, and then that article that speaks about the importance of talking about the subject. The Prime Minister if you could ask him if he wanted to replicate his colleague Ahmetovic should have done so at a time after she asked him a question, just to warn him that he still needs to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83925	Col. Glavasevic, we had a situation similar to this one last time, so when it comes to replica, then it must be answered by the representative or the representative who replicated it. When it comes to this kind of debate, the government's representative can answer in the way he wants, and then you have the final two minutes to have a representative or a representative say what he thinks about it, so it can be used in very rough words and it often happens. I'm not giving any warning, so there's no reason to warn this time either. There's a debate, there's a form, everyone in it gets the best they can. ... All right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Shall we move on then with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure? Here's my colleague Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83926	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. The 238th prime minister did not stick to the topic because he answers the parliamentary question asked by counterpart Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Prime Minister, with such experience in diplomacy, a politician with such a caliber that a debutante like me can stab and piss him off? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83927	What can I tell you now? Nothing. More fellow Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83928	Thank you very much. I think he's hurt his ankle. 14th, which states that each MP has the right to ask questions to the Prime Minister and members of the Government, thus expressing his satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the prime minister. By being cast out like this means that you answer others through other people's answers to the MP's questions deny the right to express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction. I understand that the prime minister has pissed off this issue of airplanes, perhaps to declare a little break for the Prime Minister to be a little bit of a brat because Lucky's obviously a little nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83929	Okay, come on, now you're a little satisfied, you've tried a little bit here, you've tried a little bit now to use these injuries of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, but good. Nothing, let's move on, so now my colleague Highash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83930	Thank you, then, before actually answering, so perhaps some things are becoming clear today, what your friend from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, and current President Zoran Milanovic said that during the affirmative years you drank this one as we said thick with cream instead of GP so that everything is clear to me in the profile and your repetition of the same thesis. But let's go to... I just read what it says, so I'm a little bit clear about this repetition, you keep repeating yourself with the same story, so you're bored with it, but you can continue until the end of the term. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find it interesting to observe, thick with cream, that's it. Now let's do this, so your government is hiding in fact by what billions are being spent on and your friend who doesn't actually have a friend from your friend Gabriela right now has gone here, in one strange answer, so he refuses to show contracts to the assembly, not even to the citizens, calling for what, that the assembly is the third party. What's your side, Mr. Plenkovic? Probably the first party, which is French because of your further international ambitions, etc. So, please, and in writing, I ask you to deliver the contracts to the assembly, so for the sake of the Croatian public, for the sake of Croatian citizens. Long live thick with cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83931	Let's now go to question 30, Rada Šimičević's representative asks the Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83932	Have the passions calmed down? It is. Dear President of HS, the respected prime minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome you all, and I direct my questions to Mr. Fuchs. Dear Minister, here at the second week we are the beginning of the second semester and the situation with the great monster covida-19 is not good at all. Now we can safely say that covid isn't what some know-it-alls like to call it. Since we have high numbers of over 7,000 students who have covid or are self-insulating and somewhere around a thousand professors, what are you going to do if the situation gets worse because we know it's not good to maintain the system if the system turns out daily by both students and teachers? As far as I'm concerned, I'm a face-to-face teacher as long as possible, but we also need to look at the situation as it is. My second question for you, too, is a vital law on primary and secondary education. Since the law has been amended dozens of times, I do not think it is possible to interpret certain articles in a way that you must have tens of changes, so I ask you, and your associates, on behalf of fifty thousand educational workers, to accept the proposal and to move towards amending the Law on Education and Education to the satisfaction of all stakeholders in the system of education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83933	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83934	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives to your question about the current state of affairs regarding the pandemic of covid in the education and school system may say that numbers are growing, that's a fact. They grow as well as the numbers in the general population. Somewhere around me I don't have, numbers change daily, but somewhere around ten thousand positive students. I can also say, of course, a whole series of teachers and non-school staff, which is among other things one of the most important factors in maintaining a particular school in its functionality. But we're still at 50% of the schools where we don't have any students who are positive. We will continue with what the government has done so far, and it has kept schools open. You can see that this approach to keeping open schools until the last minute shows that in all other countries that have been applied at the beginning of a lockdown and now stand at the point of view that schools are absolutely the last thing to be closed. We must, of course, protect our fellow citizens, but we must think much more of these generations that are coming. We cannot educate them well enough, and this is the key to the whole story that we are handling at this point, with of course respect for all possible security measures and in direct communication, cooperation with the Ministry of Health, but also with the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so in the last few days we have relatively recently started to talk about whether something can be done about self-insulation just as a student because of one positive whole class going into isolation. And given that information just before that we have schools with one or two or five infected that entire classes go into self-insulation, I think we should do something about it. And on that point, of course, we'll continue to work. The schools will leave on the line the moment the teaching in them can't be maintained, but some general closure of schools at this point I don't think it will be. I hope the pandemic will soon take the way down. On your second question, you're asking me about the Law on Education and Education. Yes, it's a 2008 law that, if I'm not mistaken, has changed some fifteen times, and these have been fire measures when it was wanted to be corrected at some point, and then individual articles have been changed. He is no longer adequate, he is not good, and that is why the ministry and the plan for adopting legislative activities included this law and is being worked intensively, working very broadly, large working group. There are also local founders' representatives, so local administration and self-government, and we think that the law will be put into public debate sometime within six months of our predictions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83935	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83936	I thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Here I am pleased, but I would also like to express the satisfaction of the educators here, given that this government respected those decisions that were made, they referred to material incomes unlike the previous governments that did not. And I think that we should continue to support this enthusiasm of educators with the Suport of the Government and you as ministers and that, indeed, since we have now and the money from the European recovery funds, we should use it to make schools, so that we can work on one shift. We will thus receive broad support from citizens in Croatia, and we are in favour of the knowledge country anyway, and I think we have a lot of enthusiasts in the system of education and education, and we need to reward it, value it and move on like this. I think we can and can't disappoint at least so far, let's not disappoint the educators as the previous governments have disappointed with the ban on employment, with the ban on progress, with the freezing of wages, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83937	The 31st issue is now being asked by Renat Sablar Dračevac, the health minister, William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83938	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Minister, the Minister, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. So, dear Professor Beros, Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia 10427. 10427 just on the PSR test ATA. This is an uncontrollable verse. Is it now ripe time to disband Command and form a new one? Every control has been lost. What are you going to do? Another pandemic is taking place in the shadow of the coronary pandemic virus. The European pandemic, or monster of malignant diseases. The European Cancer Organisation has reported that the EU's coronation of the virus did not provide for 150 million oncology checks, and unfortunately more than a million citizens will not get a timely diagnosis. Unfortunately, due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, for years we will record the growth of cancer mortality because the disease will only be detected at a minor stage. For a little over a year, Croatia has a National Strategic Framework, a framework against cancer, so I was wondering if, has it gone any further, a committee has been created to monitor the National Strategic Framework against Cancer, who is in its composition, and which activities and measures are planned in 2020? Given the fact that patients cannot have equal access to the health system as it was before the pandemic, what is the implementation and response to the national early cancer detection programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83939	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83940	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, the question is justified and I am saying that after this pandemic has passed, and I believe that we will soon be followed by two new pandemics or epidemics, which is an epidemic of oncological diseases and an epidemic of mental health disorders. We're working on both plans. If you followed my work, then you must have detected that two committees were founded to evaluate these problems, oncological problems and mental health problems during the pandemic. People work, meet and make certain suggestions. However, I would start with what you said that this number of newly infected shows a breakdown of headquarters measures, etc., that's not the case with you. If you look at the spread of a new strain of omicron you see that in all countries in the world and in Europe the new strain is spreading rapidly, it causes an increase in the number of newly infected. We also witness countries that have significantly more restrictive measures than Croatia, but there are no results there either. I am happy and proud of our balanced measures that allow for the protection of people's health on the one hand, and on the other hand economic flows. You can be sure that in the context of any changes in the effects of the virus and the epidemiological and clinical circumstances of the new variant, we will change the strategy that we have been doing since the beginning of this pandemic. Therefore, I would not agree with you if it was time to disband the headquarters, even though I think our measures are justified and our results are good. We adapt from day to day to new elements, as you saw last week a change in the paradigm and test strategy because we noticed that an increased number of newly infected requirements for more PCR testing, so we responded in a possible way scientifically and professionally based way, which is an increase in the number of rapid antigen tests and when we watched who might do it then it was clear that we were focusing on the only element in the health system that could do it, which is the primary health care system and I believe that they will also do thanks to healthcare professionals all of what they have done so far. When it comes to oncological diseases, you yourself testify that I may have sent an inquiry to all healthcare institutions two months ago whether waiting lists have been increased and whether they are working adequately to care for vulnerabilities or oncological patients, but also other chronic patients because our intention in the ministry has been if there are indications that it is ineffective to engage additional private potentials. However, the health care institution’s reply was that at this point there was no disturbance in the conduct of the examination of any kind. So there's no increase in waiting lists, even though the ministry's activities and connecting the information systems to the waiting, e-ordering, central ordering systems because we're working on reducing the waiting list. That's what we're gonna do. When it comes to the National Strategic Plan against Cancer, I'm proud to have it out. I will also tell you that a working group working on a plan to implement the National Strategic Framework against Cancer has been established, but I will also tell you that in this context we have provided NPOO funds worth more than 600 million kunas for the purchase of those diagnostic and therapeutic equipment that is necessary for the modern treatment of cancer in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, activities have been undertaken on several plans and elements at the same time to adequately respond to what is to be followed, and this is indeed an increased number of cancer patients because we still need to realise that the availability of healthcare is in some way difficult due to the epidemic, but there is also a certain fear in our citizens, so once again I appeal to everyone to respond to reviews and preventive programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83941	Thank you very much. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83942	I'm not happy with your answer because we see from it, I'm actually not happy with the content of the answer. We see from it that action plans are only now organized by some working groups instead of being fat in it and that we are already working on each individual action plan for over a year. Regardless of this implementation, which is bad for you and your team, I call for a thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Health ahead of World Cancer Day, where we will discuss in detail the implementation and measures of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer, and we will put particular emphasis on issues such as on oncology patients during the pandemic, how they are treated and whether mortality has increased. Minister, we're expecting an answer and we're expecting you at that session. As for the very part of the covid until the measures are even, for all equals, until the headquarters becomes consistent and credible we will continue to have floods of the infected, severely sick and dead, the worst thing is because only yesterday is 55 of our citizens gone. That's one bus. In other conditions we would declare, so if it happened to us on the bus, we would declare Sad Day, but it's not one day, look how many months over 50 people die. So something must really be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83943	The 32nd question, MP Davor Ivo Stier will ask Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83944	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Croatian government, we are witnessing the escalation of tensions between the West and the Russian Federation, indeed one unprecedented escalation may not have happened practically since the end of the Cold War and therefore I am asking my representative question to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Ministers attended different meetings in different formats on this subject, so both in the European institutions and in NATO, the OSCE, and recently you were in Moscow for a meeting with Minister Lavrov. Therefore, my question is how do you assess the further course of this very serious situation and how, of course, Croatia, within our capabilities, but also as a member of the EU and NATO, plans to contribute to the descalation of the situation and the preservation of peace and security on the European continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83945	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83946	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier, here you were the last time 5 years ago as Minister of Foreign Affairs in Moscow, of course you rightly established this particular one, hence the international aspect and the changing nature of geopoliticalism, but also recently the simplicity that escalates precisely in Eastern Europe where we show a great deal of concern, means one uncertainty and actually uncertainty. Ten days ago, there was a lot of meetings. On January 7th, we had a NATO conference of ministers at which we discussed the Russian proposal on the future of European security architecture, particularly in December of the month, on January 10th, there was already a dialogue between the United States and the Russian Federation, January 12th of the NATO Council and the Russian Federation, on January 13, there was a permanent OSCE council with, a talk about Russia and we had the same within the EU, an informal council, an informal meeting of foreign ministers in France in Brest, where we also discussed the situation, an invisible situation in Eastern Europe, massive weapons from the Russian side. Then I also announced my departure to Moscow, which was actually agreed four or five months ago. Of course, on the one hand, we have a bilateral moment that is favourable and pragmatic and on the other hand an international aspect that is very important. Then on that council, on an informal council, I announced my departure to Moscow with a message that I wanted to promote desecration, call on a Russian colleague so to calm down, to dialogue, to talk, to make all those diplomatic efforts and all those instruments legally, internationally legal to stop the escalation that is evident. And of course that the situation that is now she can certainly have negative implications for complete security in Europe. My path was absolute and the messages that Croatia recognises Ukraine's territorial integrity, that we want to have an agreement, respect an arms control agreement, that Croatia has, shares European unity but has a two-thirds approach, on the one hand means sanctions that have been introduced, and, on the other hand, affirm and send actually all those values and messages of open channels of communication, dialogue, promote peace, stability because it does not have a price. Croatia knows very well from 30 years ago we have this experience and we appreciate peace, stability, security, and, of course, my departure was up just the same as we would, to discuss the 30th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. So what really matters is it's important to protect common European values and that's the message. I will now report to the Council in a few days about my stay in Moscow, the German minister I have already informed Mr. Borrell so that it is now coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83947	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83948	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I am pleased that it continues with this direct channel of communication with Moscow because the Russian Federation is an important geopolitical factor for European security, especially for us as regards Southeast Europe and our nearest neighbourhood, but I am also pleased that Croatia is entering such dialogue as a member of the EU, as a member of NATO, so as a member of the political West because the West is not just one civilization category, it is indeed a single and geopolitical context, so the alliance between the US and Europe. We know how important this alliance and with the United States was to us in '95. And later on until today. Of course, Europe must build its capacities, have its voice, achieve its own, as strategic autonomy is said, and this strategic autonomy is not the opposite of the United States, it is not a distance from the United States, but rather the strengthening of this alliance between Europe and America and Croatia, of course, should make a contribution, and thus build its own capacities in foreign and security policy. I am therefore pleased that the Croatian government is looking at geopolitical reality in this way and will act in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83949	The 33th issue will now be asked by representative Marin Piletic, EU Regional Development and Fund Minister Natasi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83950	Thank you very much, President. Dear Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, Honorable colleagues and colleagues were long ago in February 2017 when Andrej Plenkovic called a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the town of Sisak. At that session in Sisak, making decisions, guidelines and promoting projects of Sisak-Moslavina County, the local self-government unit of the government of the Republic of Croatia launched more than 2 billion kuna investments in Sisak-Moslavina County long before the earthquake, long before the flood. Last year, between Christmas and New Year's Eve, the same government at its session adopted a programme of social and economic revitalization of Sisak-Moslavina County 15.3 billion kunas as it says in this document. Dear Minister Tramišak please explain to me, this House but also to the Croatian public what are the key objectives of the government's serious policy, which wants to revitalise both economic and social Sisak-Moslavina County as we suffer the terrible consequences after the devastating earthquake on December 29, 2020. But also to us and the public, and especially to all entrepreneurs who listen to us whether they are registered in Sisak-Moslavina County or outside it explain what it means I'm going to say a little magic number 60, 70, 75.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83951	Here's the minister's answer. Just turn off the microphone. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83952	You got it. Thank you. So the issue of the demographic social economic revitalisation programme of Sisak-Moslavina County, offered by the damage to a large scale that the government of the Republic of Croatia made in December 2020, made this decision to produce such a strategic document. The main and main objective of course is to remove and mitigate the damage caused by the earthquake and further work on the development of the entire Sisak-Moslavina County. The situation in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County is something which has not only done the earthquake but has a markedly below average results and in terms of both its economic and economic activity. By establishing the very guidelines for working on this specific programme, some of the analyses that have been made have shown that, most of all, this weak economic and economic activity is a monolithic structure of the economy. What has the greatest focus on this programme, which is precisely measures, objectives and activities aimed at employment growth, changing the economic structure of the economy, green and digital transition, thus increasing employment rates and better quality jobs. In order to achieve this, of course, we also have the resources from EU funds, the state budget funds. We've already run some activities there. Certain decisions have been signed. In particular, more than 500 million kunas, the government of the Republic of Croatia has directed various activities into the Sisak-Moslavina County during last year. Quality and concrete examples are right with you and in the town of Novska, especially here is a project that has already been pointed out several times, and this is the project of the entrepreneurial incubator Pismo and this new strategic project that you have planned, which is a campus gaming industry. We should work on such projects not only in Sisak-Moslavina County but also in other parts of Croatia. Here I believe that all together and inter-resorship cooperation will develop this project by the end of this programming period and show that a highly pro-pulsive industry can also have Sisak-Moslavina County. ... The fund is something that brings us, i.e. a fund for a fair transition of this greater intensity of support in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and an additional 100m euros of investment that will focus on the complete restructuring of the economy itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 60% support for large entrepreneurs, 70% for medium and 75% for small ones. After the operational programmes are approved and this Justice Transition Fund is adopted, it will only have the Sisak-Moslavina County in the Republic of Croatia, but these are also the highest possible state support rates for entrepreneurs in any EU Member State. So here is my pleasure, and I thank all of you who have collaborated with the Ministry of Regional Development on the development of this programme of total 15.3 billion kuna, we expect to draw up action plans at an annual level from all our ministries and to immediately start implementing and implementing them. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the task force, including all parliamentary representatives from the sixth constituency and especially you units of local self-government who have communicated to us your strategic projects. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83953	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83954	Thank you very much, Minister. In 2017, we also said one great thank you to the government for these two billion kunas that allowed us to rebuild hundreds of kilometers of roads, to build a central hospital reception and unite a hospital hospital with an apology here in Sisak. So when we started building kindergartens, entrepreneurial incubators, everything the government started. We speak equally of thanks for this programme we have adopted, but we pray and cry out that all procedures, public calls, are being speeded up as soon as possible, so that entrepreneurs can use it. So, never greater support intensity for investment in Sisak-Moslavina County not only those entrepreneurs who already operate in our county, but all those who want to invest. 75% we've never had before. The question of whether we'll ever have more after, so this programming period. I also ask the Prime Minister who announced that he would quarterlyly evaluate the implementation of this programme along with all the stakeholders mentioned by the minister for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83955	34 questions MP Zeljko Pavić will be asked by tourism and sports ministers Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honors Minister. In order to introduce tourists to our destinations and better management in order to improve capacity management, you launched a project of Croatian digital tourism that was supposed to last six years and two months, i.e. until July 2020 The deadline of completion was then extended for unknown reasons until mid-2020 and subsequently extended until 1 February 2023. In this regard, my question is, what are the objectives of the project so far not achieved, and what are the results of the implementation still missing and what are the consequences of the delay in this project? I would point out that the extension of the deadlines on the project was approved by the same SAFU, which looked through Mrs. Žalac's fingers at the time she was a minister and who, according to the estimates of the EU Public Prosecutor's Office, damaged the Croatian budget and the EU by 13.4 million kuna, and I will also remind myself that the same exclusive suppliers who worked for Mrs. Žalac are working on the project for e-tourism. I note to all that it is clear that these are data available on the official pages of the Government and on the websites of public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, have you notified the Prime Minister and the Council of State Information Infrastructure and what and what instructions have you received from the Prime Minister and the Council? And finally, in the ministry, you have the Strategic Planning Sector, you have the Legal Affairs Sector, and you have opened a tender for the purchase of services for the development of a Sustainable Tourism Development Strategy, and you have opened a tender for monitoring the compliance of the business processes that you are carrying out with the laws that you are passing in your ministry and you have paid 306,000 kuna for it. Please answer me if it's about the incompetence of the people you hired or... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Is this about unnecessary competitions? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83957	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83958	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian Pavić. So, as you are likely to know, Croatia has now managed to vote through the NPOO for a tourism portfolio of 2.2 billion kuna grants that will now be directed in the transition of the tourism resort itself, which means in the green and digital transition. It is now digitisation... that one of the key aspects of the tourism sector's transition itself and precisely to that end is the allocation of funds through public tourist infrastructure, and through a private portfolio. For public tourist infrastructure is directed somewhere around 930 million kuna which will be usability the same for green and digitalisation, and the rest of the funds is just directed into a private portfolio. What is important for us to take advantage of all these funds, and that is why we have called and thanked everyone who has responded to shares throughout Croatia, in our cities where we have included all stakeholders in the tourism sector and explained everything that is criteria and green and digital and so that we have as high-quality projects as possible to focus on the best development of the tourism system itself. What our goal is to develop all year-round tourism on the continent, as well as on the coast, and in this direction, funds will also be distributed and the goal of better transparency as you yourself mentioned will be all public calls at public consultation earlier so that they are in line with the entire tourism sector. Our goal, of course, is to have all year-round tourism, to develop medical tourism as special forms of tourism as well as environmental tourism, as active tourism and, of course, cultural tourism. And as I said, the tourism diversification of tourism products will be made possible through green but also through the digitisation of tourist projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83959	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83960	Dear Minister, you realize you haven't answered any of my questions. I asked you three questions I didn't get an answer for either, but good, what's there. I'll just remind you that so far on the e-tourism project or Croatian digital tourism which was one of the most important projects spent more than 30 million kuna so far and one of the sub-projects on the project was among other things monitoring the databases or... for these databases. I will now confirm to you and the Prime Minister and the public that you are in the recovery and resistance plan of 2022-2025. predict further improvement of the system as part of e-tourism. In this plan, you yourself have concluded that further efforts need to be made to develop its upgrade and development of its services because among other things I quote "the existing databases are not sufficiently elaborated and there are no analytical tools to enable the efficient management of tourism development". Since you spent 8.5 million kuna on this job alone, I'm asking you, what have you spent it on since it's not good according to your findings? Where did we come from? Furthermore, in that same plan you predicted that you would spend an additional 39 million 999 thousand and 47 kuna to upgrade that system. What are you going to do now? You've had the same jobs you've been doing on the project, a few of the contests are exactly the same, available on the pages of the National Newspaper, exactly the same. What were they doing? You wouldn't happen to have some kind of report? If you don't have one here, I know you don't have one, so I'm gonna ask you to give me a report on those jobs that were done there. I think there's a 2022 version of the software affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83961	We are now going to the 35th issue of Representative Sabina Vosovac sets it up for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83962	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. The results of your covid management crisis we see every day, we break records in the number of newly infected, according to the number of deaths unfortunately, we are 9 in the world, the decisions made by the headquarters were contradictory, they did not apply to everyone, they violated them themselves. Now, according to the new number of citizens, the possibility of reaching a covid passport on the basis of a sickness because they are waiting in rows of two weeks, when they are actually not sick anymore, I can't achieve a covid passport that gives them all the rights they need to give them, not this kind of our version, I can't get sick for staying at home with my children, there's a lot of problems. But I will focus my question on another system, a system that is in this whole Covid crisis, unlike the Government and the Staff quite responsible and committed, which are health workers. Our health care professionals have been living in hospitals for two years, working in full, full mobilization. They are mobilized to treat patients from Covida-19, they are dissatisfied, exhausted, burdened with administration and not treated with Covid only anesthesiologists, infectiouss, epidemiologists, but all profiles are actually forced to educate quickly so that they can make their contribution. But you don't listen to their suggestions when they suggest something, you break things over your knees. Likewise, you did not listen to our proposals, to increase their significant pay additions when working with Covid patients, to allocate funds for psychological help from their budget. So we have a chronic lack of doctors and nurses, and this situation further encourages them to leave. My question to you is, what happens if our healthcare professionals leave Croatia in an even greater number and go to countries that hold their employees? Will you feel responsible for this moment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83963	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83964	Thank you, well-respected MP Glasovac, I am pleased that you quote "The Marathons", likablely, follow the films from someone else, already exactly 40 years ago, but since this is very nice, I commend, just like this comment, given your intervention and approach to help Mr. Doncic, whom someone else obviously thinks is funny and some false information is going on as true, and then he's lying here repeating them, so tell him that it's not at all likable to him, and he's so nervous that I don't know who he can go through, I guess it's just you who want to see something like that. As for Covid and the role of healthcare professionals, therefore, the role of healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, hospital staff, all involved in the management of the health system in the crown was amazing in a positive sense. People have been doing their best for two years, fighting the biggest pandemic in 100 years, protecting our citizens, trying to protect those most endangered, older, protecting those who have not been vaccinated, those who have been vaccinated, try to reduce the negative consequences of this pandemic in Croatia. The fact that they did the job most often without asking what time it was, without asking what time it was, without thinking whether or not they were going to jump in on someone who might have fallen out of the machine because of isolation or the disease, they did a job that caused the admiration of all of us. I thank them once again on behalf of the Government for that, I say it continuously whenever I come to any health care facility, we were in KBC Split a few days ago, and that's exactly what we ordered both the director and all the employees. At the same time, improving the material position, including the salaries of people working in public services, was our desire, our obligation, something we set out in this mandate, unlike the time when the pay bases had not been touched for years, we, we raised salaries in the state and public services by 18%. 18%, it didn't happen very long, that fact shouldn't be praised, but it shouldn't be forgotten or ignored, it just wasn't like that before. We've also given special additions to Covid, all within the framework of what we're doing, and that's the cost of more than 40 billion kuna Covid crisis. 40 billion were generated by new costs or missed revenues for the state budget. It's a resume. And at the same time, there was never a question of the functionality of the health system, and that is why I think that the minister, and we all need to take further steps to thank them for what they are doing, to keep them in Croatia, whether doctors, whether they are nurses, in order to have enough people to have a challenge like this, but all other health activities can be provided uninterrupted and we will do so. And here I am once again, at the end of this current hour, calling on all those who have not been vaccinated, to contribute their little contribution to broader health security because that way it will be easier for the healthcare professionals you talk about and who I believe you appreciate and respect and support as we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83965	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83966	Dear Prime Minister, I'm sorry, I don't think you understand my question at all. I asked what you would do to keep the doctors in Croatia, and you tell me that there, their wages grew, everything is nice, all blooming. But let's do this. You think it's pleasant for these healthcare professionals while they work there, as you said, without working time, to save lives, to watch you take pictures with one of the COvid detection devices that gets the hospital Fran Mihaljevic for 3 million kuna, so that it can pay back 72.7 million kuna because it only obtained from these PCR tests. It's another new affair on the pier. I'm telling you about the following, demographics for years, for years, they've been warning that Croatia is following the gray scenario. No one listens to them. I ask you, do you hear the voice of the Chamber that said in December 2020 that by the end of 2025 they would leave Croatia, move or retire, somewhere around 2007 doctors? It is 20% of the total number of doctors in Croatia at this time. And they're not just young doctors. The average of doctors who were looking for a 950 print in December 2020 is 46, these are people who have experience, who have knowledge. What we're going to do to keep them, and at this point we're doing nothing. The departure of people from the health system endangers the health system, and you and your minister are doing nothing to prevent it, unfortunately, but you are obviously encouraging the breakdown of the public health system so that in some false and bad reform you can privatise it. I'm telling you right now, we're not gonna let you do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83967	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have four more questions just so you can plan your time. So we'll do an estimate by 14 and 15 in the morning, and then we'll take a 15-minute break. At 14:30, free speech would take place, and at 15:30, a report by the Prime Minister from the European Council meetings. So 15 and 30. We are now moving on to 36 parliamentary issues, a respected colleague, Stipan Sašlin, asks the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83968	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and ministers of the Croatian government, my question is addressed to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Butkovic, and it is related to the construction of corridor 5C in Baranja. In fact, we know that the government has put this corridor and this highway as a priority in the construction of this mandate, and it is, as such, currently one of the largest infrastructure projects not only in Osijek-Baranja County but also in the entire eastern Croatia, worth this 17,5km route somewhere around 443 million kuna. As it is visible in the field these days indeed dynamics and works on this route from Halastica to the White Manastir are taking place very well. What I am interested in, or what I would like to ask the Minister, and if you can explain to us the question, dynamics and deadlines of construction, or completion and the rest, of the remaining 5km to the Hungarian border, because we know what this corridor will all mean for the overall economic development not only of Baranja but also of the entire Osijek-Baranja County, i.e. to connect with the Republic of Croatia and Central Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83969	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83970	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the answer to your question is 5C corridor is in traffic terms one of the priorities, the transport priorities of the Government of Croatia and we will in this 2022, except for the completion of the Pelješko bridge with access roads and the newly built section of highway on 5C corridor from Osijek to the Beli Manastir, which is not the project of the Croatian highway and project on 5C corridor, but is a project of Croatian roads about 85 million kuna without VAT so that together with the newly built shares of Osijek – Beli Manastir, which includes the already built section of the Halasica Bridge – Osijek with a bridge that is 2.5 kilometers long and these remaining 17.5 kilometers to Beloga Manastir. You said exactly about 500 million kuna with VAT that Croatian highway investment financed by EBRD and HABOR means with the help of international credit institutions and our HABOR. What we have left over these five kilometers to Hungary's border, which we expect to call a tender, because since this is being designed and that we have agreed with the Republic of Hungary and the merger point, it is, at this point, at the stage of the project documentation. In 2023, we will start building these remaining five kilometers so that somewhere in 2024, with the end of this government's mandate, we will have all 88km of 5C corridors built through the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps, in the end, just to mention that last year we opened the Svilaj Bridge which is also on the 5C corridor whose value of investment is about 170 million kuna, half of us, half of BiH, so here we are about traffic projects today in Croatia, about 25 billion kuna is being invested, but here I repeat 5C corridor is our priority, and we will open this year this big share of Osijek – Beli Manastir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83971	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83972	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm really happy with the answer, but what's more important is I think that the residents of Baranja and Osijek-Baranja County are really satisfied with your response and the situation on the ground because they are really following the careful construction of this corridor especially when they have in mind and remember that the previous SDP government has re-designed that same stock on the fast road, and today this bridge of the 3rd Guard brigade in the length of about 2.5 kilometers and these 17 kilometers of roads, the highways in full profile really change the complete picture of Baranja and that part. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83973	Let's go to 37 questions, MP Ankica Zmaic asked him by the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy, Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83974	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer the question to Minister Aladrovic. Dear Ministers, the Covid-19 pandemic has lasted for more than 2 years, has greatly affected our lives and our health and certainly our economy. Can you explain to us how the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the labour market in our country, in our Croatia and what activities and measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83975	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83976	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs when we talk about the pandemic and the labour market, or in economic terms, we have already been able to hear, above all, the total cost of the pandemic in the presentations of the Prime Minister. When we just replay that on the labour market, we're practically talking about a third of the cost, because more than 12 and a half billion kunas have been implemented only to preserve jobs so far. At the beginning of the pandemic we actually experienced a shock on the side of the offer or demand on the labour market, because we had a drop of 25,000 insurance actually in 11 business days. However, the government reacted very actively and very intensely and with 12 and a half billion kunas preserved the labour market, though, and improved it. Because when we look at the data that we can see at the end of last year, we have 35,000 insurance companies more than 2020 or 26,000 insurance companies more than 2021. When we look at these first 18 days in January we also see positive indicators, and I am personally sure that this year will be the best for the labour market since the independence of the Republic of Croatia. In order for this to happen, an additional billion kunas have been decided to invest in active employment policy measures, we presented them at the end of 2021. It will be conducted throughout the year 2022, where we expect to further create jobs. We have come out of the job conservation phase towards the job creation phase and in this economic recovery, but also in social recovery, given that it is the labour market itself I am sure that we will have your support as well. What is a parallel goal with the preservation of the labour market and the preservation, i.e. an increase in income, i.e. income, and I am quite sure that the objectives we set for ourselves from that perspective will also be met in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83977	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83978	I thank the ministers. I am pleased with your response and thank you personally both to you and to your ministry and to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who has set up and activated all mechanisms and measures to preserve jobs at this challenging time of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83979	The 38th pre-late question is by health minister Emil Daus, William Berosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83980	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor. At the end of last year, there was a proposal for a Health Protection Act, he had great criticism, practically a showering profession and the general public, and the criticisms primarily referred to the fact that this proposal would make the system even more centralised and bring down the standards reached so far, in fact above the standards in some areas. I come from one of those areas myself. And it predicts an orderly who will weaken the strong rather than strengthen the weaker parts of the system. And given that there have been many stories in the public lately about this bill, I ask your clear and unequivocal response to what will happen to him, or whether such a bill will appear in a parliamentary debate as such or whether you have respected criticism from the public consultation. And I would also take advantage of the occasion of another question by when the citizens of Umag, Buja, Novigrad will actually be discriminated against, that is, when a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Slovenia will finally be signed. I think the prime minister himself had announced him on the use of General Hospital in Isola for emergencies for patients in the area. It's about saving people's lives, and life in Bujam, Novigrad, Umag, the whole of actually the upper Buijština that is gravitating closer to Isola. You know what I'm talking about, they're as valuable as in Dubrovnik, Osijek, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Pula, so please if I can get answers to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83981	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83982	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. You were wrong when you said the bill was in public consultation. Absolutely not. What has happened is that certain information from working group meetings working on the draft law has come out uncontrollably in public, causing certain doubts which are certainly not good, because they have been taken out of context, beyond the fullness of certain proposals that we are proposing. So be patient for a while until the task force is done with its work, until it defines the final bill that will come to the Croatian Parliament and which you will be able to vote on then. Until then, I wouldn't comment on anything, let people do their job. Many elements are other than the centralization of the health system on the wallpaper, so when everything is defined you will have the opportunity to be informed about the same and then to vote. Secondly, when it comes to the northwestern part of Istria, you yourself know that from 2014 to 2020 there was a specific INTERREG European project between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, including the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County and the hospital in Izola. As such, however, he had a number of elements that were supportive of the type of restrictions on the operation of the General Hospital in Isola, the type of age restrictions, patient references, the type of restrictions on those pathological conditions that were urgent, which could be directed there. Furthermore, the type of payment of health services does not matter. Therefore, following an analysis of this issue which we acknowledge is mainly in the context of the summer months when a large number of foreign tourists from Slovenian citizens, Croatian citizens and of course our population are in this area of opinion we believe that this is only possible by means of an international bilateral agreement between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health of Slovenia to address all these issues in an adequate manner. As you know, I believe you know the Ministry of Health sent a letter to the Ministry of Health last November 17th last year, sending such a request to the Ministry of Health of Slovenia. They studied it, supported it and now we are waiting for the Slovenian Government's procedure to adopt the same which would be an answer to these challenges that you cited. And I think that this is the right way to resolve with an emphasis on all the open issues and dysfunctions that were previously present with such an agreement, and based on the communication of national insurance companies in Croatia, I think Slovenia can be solved in the best possible way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83983	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83984	Thanks for the answer. Yeah, but it needs to be solved as soon as possible. As for the first part, no matter what form it came out in public, the bill or the elements of the law came out. And I'm just going to remind you that why the profession is raised and those who understand what it's all about, centralization is not good at the health care system that way, we probably agree. The Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County you know and you well 10 years ago when it was founded only seven sanitary vehicles he got, today there are 28, of which 10 with the crash test, helped Istrian County all the cities, all the municipalities of Istria County. HZZO covers only 75% of the wage needs, and everything else that is beyond that including education and equipment, goddesses, regressions are paying again the municipalities and cities of Istria County. In 2020 they received the award for the best organized institution in the Republic of Croatia, and Croatia's emergency service in the global world with France proved to be the most effective in this pandemic and it is commendable. It means the system needs to be maintained as such. We can talk about the Special Hospital “Dr. Martin Horvat" do I know how to help the ministry, but also the Istrian County whose authority is, the town of Rovinj all working hard you know what Mr. Rade is doing there and that it is actually coming... to a special hospital of the 21st century. And as far as Bujština is concerned, I know you have understanding, but we have to deal with it as soon as possible because I repeat people's lives on Vijština as much as in all of Croatia, I just don't know if you have any data, you know that now the Istrian County has listed the last two months of last year of the 1.11. contract with the hospital itself and that it pays the costs, there have been three cases, one heart attack, and one serious car accident, all managed to save thank God and thank them eventually and they're all cured and well. If the county hadn't jumped in, you know very well because it's your profession what the consequences would have been. That is why we urgently need a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83985	Thank you. And let's go to the last question of a respected colleague, Darko Klasic, asked by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83987	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Republic of Croatia, great opportunities are for the use of money from different eu funds, in order to meet the obligation and objectives for recycling and recovery of waste disposal, it is necessary that larger cities such as Zagreb, Osijek and Split finally begin to realise the entire waste management system in this area. This is especially emphasized by the City of Zagreb, which produces more than a quarter of the total waste produced in the Republic of Croatia and projects that are in the high part of the state, and this is a Biogas plant for the treatment of biowaste in Novska, the Waste Management Centre on Resnik and Sortirnica waste on Žitnjak. I note that varieties and biogas plant are nominated for co-financing from the NPOO Financial Mechanism and that hundreds of millions of kuna from the EU can be obtained for these two projects and including the Waste Management Centre. I also remind you that for the three centres of Piškornica in the Northwest of Croatia, Babina gora for Karlovac and the Lužno period for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, offers have contributed almost double the estimated value of the purchase, which has stopped their realization. Due to the importance of these projects for the Republic of Croatia, please inform me whether the Government, based on talks with the City of Zagreb and other counties that have not yet built its centres, has a plan B if these facilities are not built or not built in time, and in order to avoid payment of the penalty that Croatia could in that case be difficult to avoid?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83988	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83989	Thank you very much, first of all, for your question, Agent Klasic. So, the Republic of Croatia, and teaching on your introduction, has singled out significant resources over the past period to establish a complete waste management system at our country's level. In view of the situation found by 2017, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I have to admit that in some parts of that system we started from the beginning. The results over the past few years show above all that the increase in detachment as was the primary goal, given that the entire system is actually moving on the home threshold, but also the establishment of a whole series of infrastructure parts, I am primarily thinking about possibilities or infrastructure for separation, and then recycling yards or co-financing of vehicle construction, co-financing of education at the end of co-financing and construction of sorting plants, which is also ongoing at several locations in the Republic of Croatia, as well as finally co-financing and construction of waste management centres. We had the opportunity to see the opening or release of the Bikarac Bikara center Sibenik-Knin County, 2022. I also believe that Biljana lower Zadar County, that some centres, or their construction, have been challenged primarily because of the offers that have been made, and that is why these locations have been re-opened or re-implemented. The centre's leaders agreed with the ministry. As regards the specific position of the City of Zagreb, which you highlighted in your question, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has, on several occasions in recent months, had the opportunity to speak with representatives of the City of Zagreb, specifically with the mayor and his associates from Zagreb Holding and Cleanness. The city of Zagreb still does not have all the plans defined until the end, given the very generous amounts that would accompany both the financing and the biogas plant you listed at the dislocated location in Novska as well as the sortery or waste management centre. However, what we have made clear to the City of Zagreb is that the Republic of Zagreb will participate in the quantity of mixed municipal waste in the Republic of Croatia, given its importance, which is slightly more than one-fifth of the 21% point. The Republic of Croatia is very clear to co-finance the construction of all the rational real costs of all the centres that are planned throughout the Republic of Croatia, as well as this one in the City of Zagreb. The financial envelopes available to us are several of them the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion for existing projects already under way 2014. - 2020, 2021. - The 2027th envelope looks something different and is generally defined or directed towards co-financing, for example, this special category of waste or recycling or sorting, not mixed municipal waste. That is why some of the resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme will be channelled right into co-financing of the centres that will be phased obviously by some of them, since their construction has not yet started and in the end we will also re-design part of the envelope from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Therefore, the final message all projects of the waste management centre because the need for the Republic of Croatia will be co-financed by the Republic of Croatia. Whether, in spite of our activities that have been very, very significant for the past few years, we will at some point have been called for by the European Commission at some point, and they have resulted in a very big step, and for potential foames, we will see this. We'll do anything not to make it so. If that happens, that amount will be paid. You have to find it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83990	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83991	Here, thank you very much for the answer, I see we've scratched this problem a little bit, I can see that a great responsibility lies on local self-government, and by studying this data, I've noticed significant deviations at local self-government level, so I'd just like to remind you that by 2023 we have to spend money for the waste management sector from an existing operational period in which more than half a billion euros were available just to solve the waste problem. What is more difficult are the circumstances which in the new operational period until '27. The EU no longer wants to finance what we should have built through the money that has already been made available to us, and we have failed to spend it. I would like to point out once again that here the most significant role of the game is actually the issue of waste management in all major cities where they unfortunately failed, I see that the state was there in transport, but unfortunately the cities did not take advantage of these opportunities. In particular, the City of Zagreb, you yourself noted that the new city administration has not even presented the waste management plan, '23. It's literally the same at the door. I think resolving the issue of waste management in Zagreb will be difficult to resolve, and that the Republic of Croatia will depend entirely on whether it has fulfilled its obligations. Therefore, I think that the failure of waste management only in Zagreb and the remaining major cities of Croatia would eventually have to pay all citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the failure of local authorities. And in order to avoid this, please ask the Ministers to intervene urgently and through an appropriate solution to prevent this development and that the more you actually influence this local self-government to move out of place because unfortunately a lot is in place and not solved. Some cities are a bright example, but unfortunately the vast majority are stuck in bureaucratic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83992	Thank you, too, for coming to the end of the current morning, just one piece of information. In accordance with the provision of Article 144. I would like to inform you that in the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, 585 parliamentary questions have been raised in writing, and 534 are therefore responsible under Article 144. I call upon the government or members of the government who have not provided answers within 8 days to do the same. As I announced, we're about to take a short break. At 14:30, there will be free speeches, i.e. the presentation of the position of clubs and representatives, and then in 15 and 30 reports by the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council. Thank you. It's 2:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.37 HOURS]] Law on the cooperation of HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia of Honored Andrej Plenkovic to further explain the report. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83994	Good afternoon, I welcome you all once again, Honored President HS, Honorable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to present a report on the meetings of the European Council at the beginning of this new session of this meeting, according to our almost now usual practice. In this particular case, it is that annual report which is also an obligation in accordance with the regulations, and otherwise, as you know in the last 5 and a few years we have developed the practice that exactly the most important emphasis from the debate on the European Council is to analyse and comment here in HS in order to sensitise the Croatian public on European topics which are certainly in its fullness and Croatian topics. The fact that in this year which is behind us in 2021, as well as all other Member States, we were in a situation that after 2020, we were marked by Covid-19 the largest pandemic in the last 100 years. which has caused not only health problems but financial, economic difficulties, both for the EU and Croatia, to find ourselves in a position to work together with the fight against pandemics to raise the Croatian economy. We are in this light of the economy which in the second and third quarter achieved a record growth of 16 and a half, 15.8% according to our projections, and you can see that over the year, the projections of numerous international financial institutions, the Credit Rating Agency, the CNB Commission and all other actors to make this growth in 2021. should be above 10%, which is of course good and useful and shows the agility and toughness of the Croatian economy, the focus on exports, investments and growth of personal consumption, along with all the preconditions that we have made together to ensure a successful tourist season of which income, including related activities were practically above 90% of the record 2019. In 2021, in the political context of Croatia's EU aspect, it had a process of evaluation and this crucial process of evaluation, the fulfillment of our set frameworks, criteria, stairs, whatever they say, according to the Schengen area and according to the euro area, and by the very basis of my court, we have also witnessed a positive report by the Commission on Croatia's membership in the Schengen area. We have seen their communication in May on the reform of the Schengen area, which practically supports Croatia's membership in the Schengen area, and now, after this decision by the Council for Justice and Home Affairs in early December, there is a need for further procedures to be conducted between 3 institutions and two practical parliaments and councils, and for Croatia's decision to join the Schengen area during this year. The second step, of course, is the euro area, and when it comes to the euro area, I can say that we have made maximum efforts over the past year and 7 months since we entered the European Course Mechanism 2, since we entered the banking union, as you know Croatia is moving towards the euro area. You saw that on Monday we presented before he went to public consultation and the outlines of the Euro Law, which he would of course adopt through two readings. Here we think that we are in a very good situation, that all EU levels, the euro area and the EU itself and the European Parliament are giving us positive decisions in the middle of this year, and that in peace, we should all prepare technical final steps to replace the Croatian kuna with the euro and I repeat, here I will say one more time here, at this time of year, unless there are any unforeseen circumstances that we should all go to the euro market and pay in euro, of course, at the previous possibilities of replacing the Croatian kuna without any compensation, as well as the whole of 2023, and then unlimitedly whoever they accidentally lose their kunas somewhere where they have forgotten them can change them without compensation in the CNB. As for the vaccination of Covida-19 because it's a horizontal topic that we talked about all the time. I would, about last year, have narrowed things down to two periods, one until we had enough vaccines, and that period was settled based on our conversations with our partners, with the commission with the other members somewhere in the spring. And since May, we have been providing enough vaccines for the entire population since the beginning of June and everyone who wants to be vaccinated could have been vaccinated by the government, the state, all of us together, the taxpayers ultimately made sure that we had as many vaccines as we needed at that point. And that those who haven't been vaccinated didn't make it practically their choice that I respect, but the fact is if someone didn't vaccinate to protect themselves less, that is. Leave much more exposed to the virus that has destroyed the whole world, which has caused great damage to both Croatia and health in terms of the number of deceased, the view of people who have spent a great deal of time in hospitals, the enormous strain of the health system, and not to mention the total costs of the covid 19 pandemic that has passed 40 billion kuna. Of course, in this process we have not forgotten our important role, so Croatia is not alone in the world, Croatia is part of the International Community and should give our pain and opportunity to help others, especially those who do not have vaccines or have not had it. We've done it over the course of this year many times and in different ways. I'd be talking about three categories. We first opened free vaccination options in Croatia for anyone who came to Croatia was he a Croat, he was from someone else, from another country, another citizenship, he was a tourist, was a guest, was on a journey or only came to be vaccinated in Croatia. So this is a local action, and the contribution of the global Croatian government, the Croatian state, to all of us in the process of fighting the pandemic. The second was to help us neighbouring countries in particular Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, and because of the fact not only is Bosnia and Herzegovina a close, important and friendly country, but because the Croats live there as a constituent people whom we also wanted to help, and on several occasions we donated the vaccines of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we also donated vaccines to other countries, both in the neighbourhood and in countries outside Europe, in two ways bilaterally and through so-called. The COVAX mechanism thus helping to ensure that the population of those countries whose governments did not provide the vaccine is also helped by Croatia. And we'll continue in the future. We've ordered enough vaccines for next year and we'll be able to do it again with the conviction that we're doing good for ourselves both for others and for humanity in general. As far as the meetings are concerned, since many of these discussions have already been held here, I would try to single out maybe just a few topics in relation to what you saw in the report. One of the most important topics without any dilemma was the issue of rising energy prices, so when we look globally at the sequence of events, the pandemic that causes supply chain disturbances, the increase in demand in recovery times, according to this increase in energy prices. The increase in energy prices is leading to a rise in other prices, and accordingly we have inflationary effects. So that chain of events related to the natural economic and financial consequences of the pandemic needs to be repeated to understand why something is happening right now. On this trail, especially sometime since September, discussions at European Council level have started which is informal, which is what formal and how to do with certain comparative practices and how to act at Member State level in order to mitigate the negative effects on the population and the economy. There was something about it in short form of the word and this morning on the current clock, but I'll repeat in which direction we operate. First of all, we're about the price of electricity, you've seen about households, we've been in trouble, the price of electricity hasn't increased, and it won't rise until April. As far as the price of gas is concerned, we have two types of household users, so citizens and business entities. As far as households are concerned, nothing has changed and will not change until April. With regard to business entities, we have two categories, those who had long-term and per me in time and wisely concluded contracts that guaranteed them gas prices the same way as the market situation was then and those who did not. Those who did not have such contracts have now experienced a rise in gas prices in their invoices. It is, however, part of the economy and only part of the market players. What remains of the Croatian government according to good practices at EU level? What can we do? So there are three domains. The first domain is to help those who are socially endangered. We already have one fee today, which is given in the form of a fee of 200 kuna to socially endangered families. The word is about 64,000 families, so households that receive that compensation of 200 kuna. The word is about 110 million to 115 million kunas that are intended for this year. In the event of an increase in the price of gas, we, as Government, will increase this fee to those who have the biggest problem with paying the director. So that's the first measure of social transfer. The second element that we have discussed is, and so are the other Member States, how to deal with the crisis of a national energy company in this situation, which in Croatian case, HEP is the actor who can take part of the burden of spending on his shoulders and thus dissipate the citizens first and foremost. And here I think we have a space and a way to, with such a role, with one bypass, we've had a lot of bypasses for the last two years because of the covid, we'll also have here to use the smart setting of HEP in the time that will be ahead of us to take a step and also to mitigate the effects of price growth. The third element is the one relating to tax policy. Today, as you know, the electricity tax is 13%, the gas tax is 25%, and there is a space that the government will use in accordance with the calculations to change what it needs. At this point, I won't prejudge how much or how, but there's a margin to reduce the cost of energy for our citizens. So, these are about three main points, there are other models, but they are, in my opinion, the most important and important thing for us to understand the course of action in the coming months because I repeat once again it is as a government, and I trust all together the Croatian Assembly that through this everything that is connected to Covid, health, economic and financial sector is going through without too much impact on the citizens' standards. We've done it to the greatest extent ever, and with these measures, I think we're going to ease that step that's only just coming since spring. Many other countries, you follow it, of course, had bigger problems and had to act before to prevent that blow on their citizens. I'm going to separate two foreign-political characters from the other topics. One is Southeast Europe, so we have the most important topic here, the topic of enlargement. We had after that summit meeting which was in video format during the Croatian Presidency, it was as you remember in May 2020, unfortunately because of the circumstances of Covid only in video form, a meeting on Brdo near Kranj where we managed to send a lot of strong support messages especially in coordination with Slovenia that then chaired both Croatia and other countries that are members of the Union in this part of Europe have made their contribution primarily to support and support our neighbouring countries, while meeting the criteria to move forward. So it's a message that's very important. The second is that we have talked specifically several times and at European Council level, so I have had one major intervention on the subject of the situation in BiH right in December at ministerial level, at other levels where we have pointed out to our partners the complexity of the circumstances that are currently taking place, and this is the final stage of negotiations on potentially restricted constitutional changes as an amendment to the electoral law where we want to achieve a solution that would be achieved in the long term for the good functioning of the country, the good feeling of all constituent peoples and others, eliminated the anomaly that has existed since 2006, which is that, for example, the Croats in the Federation territory of the presidency, which is clearly out of all the statistical data to be chosen by non-Croatian citizens, but whether they are either Bosniaks or others, in all respect, we believe that this is not good, is not fair, it was not so imagined in Dayton, and it has proved to be one practice that they do not work well. The same thing is with the way we choose to be in the home of the people. On this side, talks are being held, at the level of the role of US and European diplomacy as assistants above all for political parties and representatives in BiH, and here we are strongly engaged in achieving a solution that will be good and useful, and yet respecting BiH's sovereignty and our desire to help us show on numerous examples of economic cooperation, transport infrastructure and political support in numerous forums. Of the other topics of foreign policy, the issue of Eastern Europe, the eastern partnership of the neighbourhood. Here we have 6 countries and there we had 6 so Belarus has suspended its membership in the Eastern Partnership, so there are other Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Moldova, where it was held with them several days ago. Also on the sidelines of the December meeting where the most concerns caused the situation in Ukraine, i.e. Russia and Ukraine. As you know, I was immediately before the European Council and was in Ukraine and sent very clear and strong messages and mutual respect, support, cooperation on the European path and wishes, and this is what the minister said now that he was in Moscow this week, that Croatia wants to convey the experience from the emphasis, underlining very clearly the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Poduna for the situation that Ukraine has with Donetsk and Luganski who are temporarily occupied, which should be reintegrationd into their constitutional legal order. Other topics also discussed migration, the consequences of illegal migration, the strengthening of the EU's external borders and the efforts to prevent the whole foreign border strengthening policy from internal migration, so what they call secondary migrations, which contributes to both the fight against terrorism and the prevention of illegal movements in EU territory. Of course, there is a special important role for Croatia that currently has external borders, and we want these external borders to be the Schengen external borders. The discussions that were still being held, and it seems to me that they are this interesting, of course, refer to the topic of climate change. A particularly important event was a summit meeting in Glasgow where there was practically all the leadership from all EU member states, where we were very clear about our ambitions and attitudes to participate in this process because, as I pointed out this morning, when we see realistically that Covid had not happened, so this pandemic all the main actors on the international stage would only be discussing a double transition, one digital, another green and adaptation of our economies to what is called the 4 industrial revolution. On this trail, I can show satisfaction with the intensity of the meetings which in the video formats, which physically, now France has taken over the presidency, has a very ambitious agenda despite both the presidents and parliamentary elections, but I believe that we will also take steps that are useful during these 6 months, primarily for the whole of Europe, and that Croatia will achieve its two strategic objectives, deeper integration, the euro and Schengen with the support of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83995	I thank the Prime Minister, so let's go with the replicas. As far as I know, there's 20 of them, right? The first is counterpart Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83996	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. I really do not belong to those who think that you and your government are solely responsible for everything that we witness here today, I guarantee that 99% of the opposition would lead the same policy that you are running, that is, the race towards the bottom, means creating competition on the international market exclusively through the cheap labour price, reducing labour prices, increasing exploitation, exploiting workers, and not technological progress, investing in research and development, etc., the deindustrisation you have carried out is just the continuation of those SDP policies that we have followed before you. But don't manipulate statistics. When you say we have 16% record growth in the 2nd and 3rd quarter, then you haven't compared us to others, others have grown much more. You didn't mention how much the decline in GDP took place in 2020, how we had a rapid decline in GDP compared to other countries at the time. You say we fought against Covid, we're 5. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] by mortality in the world by [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] the death toll of millions of people. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. Here's the answer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83997	... Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83998	Thank you, well-respected representative Peovic. Growth data per quarter are verifiable, exists on the Internet, not only Croatian institutions but also others, I suggest you check them out. What you would do well to take care of when you say we are insensitive, for example, on workers' rights, that is not true at all, if something marked these two years of mandate, or now almost 2 years and those last few months before the last parliamentary elections, was a struggle for workers and jobs. Representative Peovic, 700 thousand workers received salary in the private sector from the state. If it wasn't for them, they wouldn't get paid, their families would be threatened by existence, and their employers would appear to have failed. At the social summit in Port that I was talking about earlier, so I can't repeat it all year round in 20 minutes, we said, we're going from a job conservation phase to job creation, and from the NPOO 2.4 billion for research and development. in the framework of education and science policy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u83999	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84000	Dear Prime Minister, you mentioned Ukraine briefly in your report, here, give us some more information, here, and today we can monitor to escalate the situation there, so it doesn't calm down, here, specifically, I'm reading a few thousand Russian soldiers on the border with Ukraine. They're even in Belarus today. What will be Croatia's attitude towards possible aggression, that is, the whole EU, or what is the EU's concrete position on this crisis? As the EU will set itself, here try to be as concrete as possible, I know that it is a delicate issue, if this aggression happens, which is not impossible, I would even say it is likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84001	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84002	Thank you very much. As far as the situation in Ukraine is concerned, it is a country I know very well because I followed it in detail for almost 2 years practically every day while I was head of the EU delegation for relations with Ukrainian Work and stayed there often. The situation is extremely worrying. I think it's currently the most tense from 2014 to today, you remember the escalation... In 2014, and an agreement from Minsk, why do I always mention our experience and agreement from Minesk? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If one of you had taken it now, if you had removed the titles and looked at the tasks, you would have the same feeling as if you had integrated the Croatian Podunavlje, with little exceptions, but the framework is practically the same. Croatia and the whole EU, a) wants no conflict to escalate, b) will react together, firmly, clearly and do everything to prevent any instability, and we can talk about details a little later, I have 60 seconds, not even Minister Grlic couldn't say it better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84003	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84004	Thank you. On January 17th 2021, Minister Medved said Serbia is not cooperating and is not providing information on the missing from the Homeland War. On December 14, 2021, this month ago, Serbia opened in this chapter cluster, 4 chapters in 2021, and the result of Plenkovic's diplomacy in 2021 was the fate of the missing Croatian victims and the solution to fate 0, Serbian chapters 4. So this is the result of your policy, and Minister Grlic Radman violates the government's valid decision to convene this inter-resorial commission to monitor the implementation of the criteria, you have taken it upon yourself and we can actually say that what you do very well for Serbia, and very bad for solving the fate of the missing Croatian victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84005	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84006	Thank you very much. The issue of the missing is the subject that we deal with every day, which is addressed by Minister Medved, who I deal with personally, who on the agenda of any contact with any Serbian official at any level, and this is the topic that will always be there. This cluster that you're talking about, exactly, had several chapters that, in a substanceless sense, had no political connection to this subject. When they come to the agenda of the chapters that have ties to this topic, then we will put this topic in the context of Serbia's further progress towards the EU. Once again, that's what I was saying about another subject the other day. It is not wise that one new member, and we are here the last member to support enlargement, comes to forums called the EU and blocks someone from the optics of another, not necessarily only of Croatia, seems a little different than we think. So, I understand your point, I figured it out, we're taking care of it, but... We have little more experience in international relations than [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] than some other actors. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84007	I'll give you the word of my colleague Grumo, but don't wear a mask, I don't know if it's on purpose or if you've forgotten... No, no, you didn't even have it before you checked in, so I've been following you for quite a while, so you didn't have no, we'll look into the camera. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84008	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club to consult on what Prime Minister Plenkovic is saying. And some other Member States, such as Slovenia were new members, and we know how many problems Croatia has created on this European path. This is an important issue that you are waiting for some chapters when in fact this Serbian path towards the EU is over and the question is therefore, and we are more doubtful of your abilities and your influence within the EU because it has proved that you are not second-rate but we can say freely a third-rate ciao in these European structures. It also showed around this fund where you actually boasted about how you'd extend the withdrawal deadline, eventually none of it. Also about the fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating your closest associates and Croatian victims no longer have time to wait for Mr Plenkovic, too much time has passed for you to allow Serbia to open 22 of the 35 chapters, that in 2021. Open 4 chapters without any intervention of yours, that the current government decision on the inter-resor commission to oversee Serbia in implementing the criteria of Chapter 23 has not been reported either by former Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović or by current President Zoran Milanovic, so I have asked my colleague Bulj and former President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, but the question has been asked to the current president, so don't you, I'm not interested in Mr Milanovic, or you yourself, so your reactions only show that you may need to establish a psychiatric council, we can make him here and in the assembly to analyze a little bit. Analyze your behavior. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo, thank you]] I'm curious. interested in Croatian victims [[Thank you very much.]] And you're laughing, you're laughing at Prime Minister Plenkovic. [[Invader: Comrade Grmo, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84009	Comrade Grumo, please choose your words, they're inappropriate to give advice that someone needs to see a psychiatrist, I don't think you're the one who's going to decide... And the associations are very ugly and let's not go down, let's not go down to that level, I don't think anyone needs that. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Comrade Pavić, you've reached out to take a break as well, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84010	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister, Honored President of the Assembly, for asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to further explain the Croatian position that was in the European Council, but also to respond to all these arguments. Croatia was and is one of the main engines that has put the extension of the Zagreb summit in focus. It got a little lost with the Portuguese presidency, and along with Brda near Kranj and the summit meeting which was the Slovenian presidency we put very clearly on the enlargement agenda. Why? Because the stability of our neighbours generates stability also in Croatia. Croatia is engaged here, and here is Mrs. Busic and the prime minister and all of them are very active in BiH to amend the election law we have hired absolutely in everything and what is Croatia's position when all countries meet the criteria, and this includes Chapter 23 and all other chapters, which means that it will be able to be part of the community and we aim to have this whole area integrated into the EU. What we have seen for the last year as much as Croatia, that is the question of this modern sovereignty, how much we have been involved in European processes, as far as we know ourselves, and by the arrival of Macron and the purchase of Rafael and the strategic partnership, it was so dense to me the other day, here we were colleague Hajdukovic and I at COSACU when Minister Clemen Bon announced the reform of the Schengen, when we were able to support it, when we were integrated and when we were involved. Prime Minister Plenkovic, with his reputation, and we have seen recently the election of the President of the European Parliament coming from our family, is very important and all of this nonsense, you will not cancel it with all these papers and you will not question our reputation in Brussels as well as the results of the government's work in the European Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84011	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved, and so is she, first, but we'll go. 293.b. Right away with the work. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84012	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Pavić is cheating on the public. I didn't speak of any reputation, nor was I interested in his reputation and association with Mr. Hajdukovic. What I'm interested in is what is the concrete result of the policy, which means your policy towards Serbia and the fate of Croatian victims? That's what I want to know. The result is zero, zero is the result, and Serbia opens chapters, so that's the result of your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84013	You get a warning from your colleague, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's clear to everyone. Comrade Bulj, please choose also the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84014	You've hurt your colleague. In 238, only because of this, Mr. Pavic, for having deceived all the parliamentary representatives and the public. Since 2016, there has been an obligation by the Commission's interlocutors to monitor Serbia's EU accession. Opening any chapter without having any missing list, one person and campers, that's more than embarrassing. That's just high treason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84015	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, you're getting, you're getting a warning. Comrade Bulj, you are being warned, this is some kind of attempt at replication, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Pavić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84016	He's been injured. 238, colleagues from Most, and they don't even know that COSAC is a conference of the president of the Committee on European Affairs which has coordination and which is the main co-operation towards Brussels, which is the success of this government in the EU, 700,000 saved jobs, the average salary of 7,250 kuna, 8,250 in Zagreb Zažela", the absorption of European funds, we came out of the crisis in a year. Unlike the previous crises when it came out in the 10th year. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Pavic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84017	Comrade Pavić, you are aware that this was also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you are being warned. Let's move on now, another request for a break, colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84018	Okay. I'm looking for a break on behalf of HSS and RF in order to use this time to explain a little more about what manipulations are being done and to repeat them again. So 700,000 jobs, so you didn't save jobs, you gave employers fees, it's not about saving jobs. We have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, so people have not moved out of Croatia because they are well here. Let's move on, 16% of GDP growth. The prime minister told me to look at these statistics, that it wasn't statistical manipulation. It's colleagues and colleagues, it's about statistical manipulation. Why? Because the Prime Minister doesn't speak from which bottom we rise. If we're 2020. We had one of the biggest GDP declines in Europe, so of course we now have record growth, so we had a record GDP drop of 8%, the other countries had a maximum of 4 to 5%. What are we talking about? This is where the prime minister talks about social benefits. Croatia is a social case. Croatia is the 8th worst country in Europe according to the number of people at risk of poverty. That's almost a million people. The risk of poverty is 18.3%. When speaking to the prime minister about price regulation and inflation, and this is related to the euro he spoke about, the CNB has been running a conservative policy of keeping the kuna rate allegedly due to the prevention of inflation for years. Now that we have inflation, we see that this policy does not serve anything, or certainly serves to keep inflation, but serves the course itself, or serves banks and rich people who do not look at the poor anyway. What is important is therefore that we did not use deflation policies, targeted deflation courses such as Slovenia used this to encourage employment and to encourage exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84019	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. Your apartment is approved, but also 293.b. Let's get back to work, and we'll go new to the replicas. I'm asking the Prime Minister to come to the pay phone. It's my colleague Milanović litre, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84020	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you yourself mentioned that you expect next year at this time that we will pay in euro unfortunately. Unfortunately, this decision has been made by decree to yours without any public debate, without any question from Croatian citizens whether they want the euro with them, whether they want the euro in Croatia. We had an initiative that wanted to open a public discussion, the referendum didn't work, but that doesn't mean we didn't make it, 330,000 signatures we collected, and that's enough indicator that people want a public debate on this subject. At the moment of the biggest drop in GDP at EU level, at the moment of the greatest crisis recorded in the history of humanity, after the earthquake, after all the shortcomings we have in the Croatian economy, Croatia and Bulgaria, the two worst economic standing countries in the EU are entering the eurozone, so what is the logic of the European Council to accept Croatia and Bulgaria in the eurozone?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84021	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84022	Thank you, well-respected representative Milanovic litre. I think we've already had this debate in one of these debates in HS, so I'm going to look first at the thesis and the absence of a public debate. Your Honor, this is my initiative since I've been Prime Minister that after every European Council I come to HS and purposely give an opportunity for this debate is something I do for the public and for the sake of respect for HS. That before I was in this position wasn't the first one, so this is also part of a public debate, even about the euro every time. Secondly, we have defined membership in the euro by joining the EU a referendum and ratification of some former colleagues here consensually, adopted a strategy, entered the European Course Mechanism 2 and the Banking Union, brought a plan to replace Croatia's kuna with the euro, and now we will meet the final points and enter, and whether you are in favour or not, I do not know. It's up to you, not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84023	Thank you very much. A colleague Milanović litre of injury to the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that we have now started again with old practice. I really don't see what's been hurt... Go ahead. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84024	Art. 238, so Croatia has defined that it will accept the euro, not at what time and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84025	Tell me what's in Art. 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84026	It's a public deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84027	That's not in your article. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84028	So in 238, Croatia accepted the introduction of the euro at the time of the signing of the EU Accession Treaty, but not under any conditions or when.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84029	My colleague Milanović litre, this has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, you'd be plimizing now. You've had a replica, you've done a replica, and the Prime Minister has answered you, and there's no further, it's just the rules of the game. Let's move on, someone asked for a break, Pavliček, a colleague of Pavlovichk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84030	Dearly beloved, here I will use this pause on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to point out once again that all the arguments made by the prime minister and related to Croatia's entry into the euro zone are mildly not held by water. On the one hand, you said there will be a larger flow of tourists, tourists choose their destination regardless of the currency of payment, it is mostly about card payments. Then you mentioned that there would be more investment, here is the 9th year. We are in the EU, all the major industrial investments in the broad port are bypassing us, going even to Eastern countries that are not members of the EU. Then you said there would be a rise in the standard of citizens, and that is very questionable because we all know that there will be a nominal rise in prices especially when the euro is introduced as a means of payment. The only thing holding the water, which is that you're going to have a better credit rating, and you obviously just need it to be in charge. So that your thesis that Croatia is ready to enter the euro zone is definitely not because here's the 9th year is how we are inside the EU, and we are still at the beginning of GDP by the average development of the EU, by public debt, we have not moved away, unfortunately since the moment we entered, so today, we are the only thing we have, which is 400 thousand people less than when we enter within European associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84031	Okay. Stanka has been formally approved, however, we continue to work. Now it's my fellow Bull with a replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84032	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you mentioned GDP and GDP growth, I just need to point out that 6% of GDP is from the transfer of Croats, that's these $400,000 that have been evicted, and it's $5 billion. That's huge money, 6.2% of GDP. However, if we from Ukraine and Russia go to the problem that has hit the whole world, that is Covid, as you say, who has affected our lives and what has resulted, we see what. However, whether you have debated on the council or perhaps suggested as Spain, now Israel, suggest the abolition of meaningless Covid certificates because they declare that there is no basis for both medicine and epidemiology, and also to panic and affect the economy and these finances. Did you propose to abolish the Covid certificate, mainly after a petition signed by more than 400,000 people in Croatia to attend a referendum? Have you spoken? about what Israel is now introducing... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84033	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84034	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You are the champion of respecting the measures and advocate of vaccination and health care, the Croatian Tourist Board will take you as the main promoter for tourism in 2022, I think they already have it planned so that we will take all your advice carefully, as well as these wise advice from your colleague sitting in front of you, who would be a great promoter of Croatia, would improve bilateral relations, build a reputation at the EU level, so that Croatia there as a respectable country would last about 15 minutes. And yet continuously, constantly, constantly, constantly, constantly, constantly, constantly building along with some other thesis about the bad relations between Croatia and Croats here in Croatia with the Serb minority, it's probably some major sport, but that's not good, and that's for what you last said, The real theme in your presentation, but Mr. Pavlikek [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Follow the game [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] more than less than we've... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Prime Minister, please.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84035	Prime Minister, please, you cannot respond to the replicas of those who are... Incomprehensible/.../... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[So I have to when they're using everything. We can't just be...]] No, no, no, no, there are rules and... Well, that's the rules. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder: I can't stop looking.]] Comrade Bulj, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84036	Thank you very much, President. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. 238, disdaining MPs because they're not answering the question. I asked him about the Covid measures you discussed, whether you discussed the Israeli proposal and whether you suggested it perhaps or not. to abolish these pointless Covid because you can see that 400 thousand Croats signed for a referendum [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] That's what I asked you, and I'm not in Croatian and your coalition partners... [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84037	Comrade Bulj, you are now getting a third warning and cannot continue to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84038	And I don't expect anything, he's been telling you for two hours, the prime minister's talking for two hours, he's not answering. You're serving him right. [[Come on, buddy, let's go.]] You serve him exactly, [[Come on, please.]] But you're the first one to hang out who's a spring hanger. [[All of us, let's stick to it.]] The Prime Minister will find out soon enough. [[Intruder: Let's stick to the rules of the game, equally for everyone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84039	The Prime Minister can't answer, he can't ask for a break, as he tried, and you can't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've got 3 warnings and you can't speak anymore. Let's move on, now it's time for your colleague Mrak-Taritash, here you go. [[Intruder: And he has 15 minutes to speak longer.]] And so is my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84040	Incomprehensible... now Prime Minister. [[Intruder:...]] He's been injured. 238, Prime Minister Plenkovic had to because I saw how much this hit him, so this exact data and the result of his diplomacy, I did not speak at all about the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia, I was talking about how Serbia, said the ministers in your government, did not want to cooperate, and you allow them to open chapters. This is the result of your policy and You can be nervous, but that's unfortunately the way it is. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84041	Note No. 2, clear to everyone. Let's move on now. Incomprehensible/ dilith reminders non-stop/... [[Intruder:...]] You can't talk anymore, Comrade Bull. ... And you can't talk and don't talk to me now, you're gonna have to go outside today from the gym. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84042	Thank you very much. I am one of those advocates who has absolutely no dilemma that it is good that Croatia is a member of the EU and that there are more benefits than no, but I am also aware of all those weaknesses that are, and one of those weaknesses is the state of the EU compared to some other big world players, and I primarily think about the problem of energy that has opened up, that is, the problem of gas and the problem of oil. So it is not an exclusive problem for Croatia now, but rather a problem for Croatia as an EU member, and I always think it is a good thing that this problem is being solved in a society of better, more successful than to solve it alone, because I would stay so much, quite short options. But what we don't need to be very concerned with the economy that we know when the price of energy increases, so gas, electricity and oil that automatically is like the domino effect of increasing everything else and there's one thing that other EU members don't have, and we have. We have at this moment the greatest The price of gasoline, so why? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] For what? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash.]] How?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84043	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84044	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. As you know, and you've had experience in the government, the difference between this first term and the second is that about a year ago, we finally opened the LNG terminal after 40 years of debate on the energy profession in Croatia. These 2.7 billion cc's of gas that comes in, on Krk in Omisalj and later moves into distribution is a matter of sovereignty, sovereignty, strategic autonomy and ensuring heating for our people in the event of an unforeseen and even greater crisis than this one today. In the case of oil prices, i.e. I said today, I'll repeat, if the assessment is that next week will come to a new price purchase, we will limit them again by a regulation other than premiums to 11-11.10, 11.10 kuna or lip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84045	Let's move on. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84046	Dear Prime Minister, are you happy in such Croatia as your Foreign Minister Grlic Radman and his children are happy? Look, I'm not and I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia because my first neighbor is 5 years ago. He went to Germany because my cousin had been highly educated for 3 years. in Graz, because my godfather in Denmark and my wife and two children, because a few days ago my colleague and my wife and three children went to Ireland. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia, so I'm interested in the fact that we have in this report a number of topics that are being addressed at the meetings of the European Council of Covids, Security, Climate Change and the like, which is taking place in terms of demographics, especially as far as we are concerned because this is a question of all issues for the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84047	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84048	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So if someone recognized the subject of demographics by Croatian governments, then in the first and second terms, we also integrated it with the name of the Ministry of Social Policy, Family, Youth and Demography, now at the Special Central State Office for Demography and for young people plus emancipated it first at European level. This is the first European Commission to have in its history the portfolio of the Vice-President of the Commission, in particular Dubravka Shuice and the issue of demographics, so on recognition of the problem, I think we agree here. As for the specific situation with 396,000 people less I will repeat what I said today, 165,000 people are a negative natural increase, which is a greater number of deaths compared to born, 110 registered emigrated thousands and 120 unregistered. We have to do more with joint efforts, and these indicators are numerous, and in these 6 seconds, we can't all say that we live better in Croatia, including in Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County, which unfortunately lost most people in Sisak-Moslavina in the last 10 years. We're working on it together to track down this morning's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84049	Thank you. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84050	And I'm not going to ask you, dear Prime Minister, but today you've been harassed by this Banja Lukan attack by Milorad Pupovac this recent and dismaying international public about his act, but I've actually been thinking for a few days when I saw that we're 5.1 billion kuna from the EU Solidarity Fund that we haven't been able to spend, so given my experience in the Homeland War, let's say that, so you can tell me, I think that the Croatian public is interested, you're the head of the executive government in the Republic, so you're the person who controls practically the whole life of this in relation to the constitution and the laws, and also your ministers, so how, yes, how many times you've had... And tell them what your ministers, your associates, gentlemen the money is here, we're in a state of emergency, we have an earthquake, we need to do, what's missing from those, did you hear them, did you hear them if something's missing, here? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84051	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84052	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad you're okay, that you're healthy, that you've recovered. When it was awkward, I said hello because it was awkward to bother you back then, I see everything you know, but I'm glad you're here. Secondly, as far as the subject of the thesis is concerned, I'm the one who decides everything. I keep reading it somewhere, but I'm afraid reality is a little different in democracy, no one decides about everything, government is a collective body, there's a lot of other institutions that also have their powers from parliament, president, and not to talk about all these other people that I've listed and a few, the last few days. But the European Solidarity Fund has its own rules, its structure, the national co-ordinator of everything is Minister Horvat, the other ministers must work, we meet intensively nonstop. If you follow the government's meeting, you can see that this is the first point of government in almost a year. So we'll do everything we can to use that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84053	Thank you. Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84054	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I'll, of course, talk about covid. About 17 million people died of covid, and 9 million people of those 17 would still be alive today. The European Commission, if we compare this with the United States, Russia and China, made the most of its efforts with the proper distribution of vaccines, and if we remember everything at the beginning that the EU has invested in researching vaccines, which certainly contributed to the speed of finding effective vaccines, we still cannot be satisfied, therefore, especially if we look at the situation that is only about 9% vaccinated on the African continent. I am interested in what way do you see the further contribution of the European Commission to increasing this rate of fissure in poorly developed countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84055	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84056	Thank you very much. Right until the global pandemic is solved, that's why it's called the pandemic because it's stormy all over the world, and given the different climate conditions, it's not as intense everywhere. The EU is the largest donor of vaccines, the largest donor of humanitarian aid in the world, participating through... Particises through bilateral assistance given to different countries around the world, especially African states, but also to others who do not have enough vaccines. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this participation, I have already stressed, we will make our contribution because I believe this is literally a situation in which we can also act locally and contribute globally. And on the other hand, it's always the subject of our conversations, how much we have divided our own population and how much we can contribute elsewhere. I'd be happier if another part of our people decided to vaccinate. That would be good for them and for our health care and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84057	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84058	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, as you noticed today, I am in some petty mood, so in this mood I noticed that you have not touched one important topic of Croatia's participation in the EU, so I would like to talk a little bit about it, which is the concrete accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Schengen area, i.e. to accept the Schengen acquis. In the 12th month. A decision has been made that Croatia has met the conditions and that is good. What I would like to hear from you as a more concrete response as possible, which is whether we have a date on which the next Council decision will be made, which is a specific date for Croatia's accession to the Schengen area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84060	Thank you very much. I don't know if you've been at the beginning of my presentation, but I've spoken more specifically about the second of these two goals of deeper integration with the EU area, it's in the Schengen area, referred to that meeting from the Ministerial of December. So at this point, what the procedure requires is for the Council to send the entire procedure to the EU parliament. The EU Parliament should be shown in its opinion, committees, plenary, after which the matter returns to the Council. Our goal, our calendar is to keep it in the middle of this year. So to complete procedures for both the euro and the Schengen, in the middle of the year, I think that all the preconditions have been met, we are working on it, we are explaining to the Member States, and even to the European Parliamentarians, all of what they may be interested in. The Commission was clear, this decision by the Council of December was more than good, now followed by these institutional, two intersteps, Parliament, the Council and then It was supposed to be over. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84061	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the world is changing and we have an important geopolitical decision ahead of us, we want to be part of the periphery, or we want to get closer to the European core. I know that entering Schengen and European, Eurozone, is not a panacea that will solve demographic all economic issues, but it will certainly be much harder to resolve this if we consciously refuse to enter both the Eurozone and Schengen. And of course, it is also necessary to europeanise our neighborhood, because in this way, we also define ourselves to get out of that periphery when we have an orderly neighborhood and in this context we need to resolve the question of the missing, that is the question that has its own standard, the criteria that were negotiated when Chapter 23, Chapter 24, we are not running away from HDZ's responsibility, however, it was not your government, it was the HDZ coalition and Mosta, the Bridge during Tihomir Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84063	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84064	I think it is always good for people with experience like you and diplomacy as foreign minister and as a European representative and Croatian representative, for those who have far less experience to grow what and how to do in promoting and protecting Croatian interests instead of these cheap stunts that are essentially about destabilising relations both in the neighbourhood and not contributing to bilateral relations, not solving the problem of the missing, and the bad atmosphere within Croatia as we often have the opportunity to listen here in HS. So the exact opposite of what government policy is and what we do, with a priority goal of discovering all the missing people in the Homeland War because we owe it to their families and to them as the people who gave the most for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84065	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84066	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. You talked about the EU area, I've always been clear there, I absolutely support Croatia's entry into the euro and it's always repeatedly justified. Why? We forgot, for example. Yeah, when she's three months old. March, so in 2020, when there was strong pressure on the kuna, the CNB spent a billion and 200 million euros in 20 days to defend the kuna, right? What would have happened if we hadn't, so they spent a billion euros just to defend the kuna, which is the first crisis situation. The CNB doesn't have unlimited resources to defend the Kuna. Now the second question is, so much more positive effects for the Croatian economy will have a euro than negative ones. Now it's my second question of these negatives. Unfortunately, what can happen to us at the euro? What can happen to us? We enter when Europe has the highest inflation in 30 years. All the countries entering the euro did not have such inflation and such price increases. Croatia unfortunately has such a foothold that it enters the euro when prices are unfortunately wilder. And that's what I'm asking now, how to get into the Eurozone, and that this price rise because we're always talking about the standard of citizens, it's all going to be transferred, why, or because we're going into the euro, and It happens from inflation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How's that? Separate and communicate? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84067	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84068	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am glad that from this left spectrum we have one clear, firm, unequivocal view of supporting Croatian membership in the Euro area because not everyone is so articulate, there are those who claim to be modern, but they still don't know what they would do, that I don't quote one of my predecessors. Is, is, is, Bojan, is, is, read interviews so you'll see. ... And you see how Arsen recognizes everything, but conveniently he mentions it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You mentioned that spring of 2020, apropo of these phone conversations, 1 phone call was solved by a currency swap and at that moment the story of the exchange rate stopped. This you remember because you were Minister of Finance and follow the details, most people forgot it, but it is important, we will take care of consumer protection in this context, this is not an ideal context, but after 9 years of membership on time, after a long preparation and with the belief that it strengthens both financial and monetary and long-term economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84069	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84070	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. I know you can't answer me in a short time, but that's something we can't read from the report, so I'd like your comment and opinion. First of all, when we talk about the Schengen area, as someone who knows little about European processes, it is clear to me that you cannot give us a date, you can give us any time frame, but what I can ask you and it is very good that the Commission has adopted a positive opinion, but that process does not stop. What I'm curious about is, what are you building on so much optimism that we're really going to make it into Schengen space because some countries have been waiting so long? And the second question is about migration. In fact, the situation at the Eastern borders of Europe at the end of last year has shown that migration pressure on Europe does not decrease. Your assessment, since you are at Council meetings, has this crisis brought us closer to a new agreement on migration and asylum?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84071	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84072	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic. I see you're praised by those of the Bridge, it's, uh, take care of it in these opposition coalitions, don't forget that. As far as optimism is concerned, I am very realistic here, I am real because we are long-prepared, remember the Report of the Commission of Juncker 2019, remember this Report by the latest Commission Juncker, Ursula von der Leyen and Commissioner Johansson, the conversation is absolutely with all the leaders, prepared support at the level of foreign ministers, interior ministers, heads of state and government. I understand what you're alluding to, you have a lot of international experience. There are countries waiting longer than we are, it's an important topic and therefore very subtle, not like an elephant in glass we approach this topic. As far as migration is concerned, yes, this northern Central European route has been intensified, the topic of migration is one of the topics we often talk about, but we have not yet reached agreement on the pact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84073	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister, the EU imports 90% of gas, 95% of oil, and it certainly dominated these Council meetings last year, where you yourself said that you have made efforts like the Government to keep the price of gas and the price of electricity for citizenship stable until April, while taking other measures, such as aid from 200 kuna per month for 64,000 families that are worse in social status and which are in fact at some risk of energy poverty. This, of course, contributes to energy poverty, except for the poor social status of citizens, high energy prices and energy bills and poor energy efficiency. I am interested in knowing that, through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, certain financial resources have been provided to help energy efficiency, but contracts have already been signed with the economic sector, what is specifically planned to be done to improve the energy efficiency of housing facilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84076	Thank you very much. All of this is exactly what you said about gas. The fact is that virtually all Member States are large importers, which is why this diversification of gas supply chains was crucial. That is why I have continued on every occasion relating to the geostrategic position of Croatia, including the fact that Croatia has changed its position on Europe's energy map, we must all be aware that since we have this terminal on Krk, the situation is no longer the same. So we no longer depend on someone closing the gas line in Croatia, having a problem. That's where we made sure, and that was a strategically very good investment in the long term. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, yes, in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, this entire pillar relating to reconstruction and energy efficiency, I think a little more than 5 billion kuna is foreseen. There will be a competition, it will go into the reconstruction of all buildings that have the possibility of applying to the competition to solve the inadequate present Energy efficiency status. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84077	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84078	Thank you. Dear Mr. First Minister. And in the report and in the Why not? [[Intruder: It's not exactly like that.]] This one, both in the Report and in your debate, mentioned how you opened the subject of BiH and the situation several times at EU Council meetings. In fact, we have not been able to get any idea what the Council's mood is about, whether it is viewed as a dominant topic of general interest for the EU or a subject with more particular interest in, or general interest in, the EU. In fact, in the Council's conclusions there is no mention of it, and you asked at the last meeting, this 1612, to actually put it on the agenda of the next or any of the following meetings, so I wonder if that's the topic we can expect on the Council's agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84079	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84080	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Glavasevic. You're asking about what the leader's focus is on the subject? Very different. We who are close, and Croatia is the only EU member bordering BiH, Croats are a constituent people, there is no one more important than us. We are first, then follow those who are close, then follow, of course, EU members who are members of Quinte, you know that through the Peace Implementation Council, who have large systems, administrations, diplomacy and policies and know details. The others know less. Especially with the passing of time. That's probably what you're meeting with your teammates, which are younger people, they don't remember their experience as it was in the '90s, but they're learning from other sources, and then it's not just a political conversation, diplomatically, sometimes it's a small and educational approach that needs help. I expect a debate on this subject on one of the next councils, we formally requested it and it will certainly happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84081	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84082	Dear Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentation and noticed when you spoke about BiH in the context of last year's work by the EU Council that you failed to mention the conclusions of December 14th and the fact that I consider one of the biggest disasters, the debacle of Croatian foreign policy, that all Croatia's demands are important, such as the constituent peoples, the legitimate representation of the constituent people through the amendment of the electoral law, rejected from these conclusions, and Croatia did not block them anyway. I'm asking you why? When Croatia will start acting as a sovereign independent state and a full member of the EU, when we will start blocking documents that are directly in the function of what is being prepared in October, which is the political tilling of Croats and BiH, and have you taken over the role of an anesthesiologist who sends some strong messages to God, goes to Mostar, meets with Bakir Izetbegovic and eventually... Why didn't you block those conclusions? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84084	Well, here's the résumé of narratives that you didn't throw into the air, but you know very well who you are close to, so you threw it on the air, top experts who would make Croatia a country that blocks the conclusions of enlargement, and in particular the conclusions about BiH, and you play some kind of sovereignism with absolutely no knowledge, no debate at the General Affairs Council level, nor at lower levels before that in Brick, Brussels, nor at the foreign ministers level. Therefore, your thesis that we will now block, that after that, everyone will suddenly rush to listen to you as an expert on international relations is a brilliant thesis. They're just waiting for everyone here, let's say Germany, France, Italy, they don't know what they're going to do, but you come to them with your methodology and your technology, and you open your eyes because they don't know anything. We work in a way that we think is intelligent, smart, useful for Croats in BiH Not useless. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84085	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84086	Article 238, insult and dissuasion of representatives. I asked a very clear question. What would I do? I'd block it, block that document. Here you honor our closeness with President Milanovic, to admire Milanovic. In some things I criticize him, in some I mention. No, I'll tell you this. He vetoed the NATO Pact Declaration. They bombed us, they gave us sanctions, no, what he asked for was put on, you obviously care about Pusic and your future Brussels careers. and knowingly sacrifice Croatian national interests. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84087	Comrade Rasudiæ, you are being warned this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84088	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Government, the Honorable President of the Assembly, is nice to listen to reports from the European Council, and yesterday you also received commendation from the Committee on European Affairs from part of the opposition that this is good practice in the 9th year of membership. Unfortunately, we also see on the other side of the assembly that there are those who do not know the best of European jobs that they are in power would have absolute isolation of Croatia, in order to have a few billion euros less in the budget, but well, let the citizens themselves judge how much their ignorance is throughout the process. What I would like to ask you are two things that may not have been so highlighted in your report, which you yourself mentioned, a summit meeting in Glasgow, a climate change issue, a question of harmonising neutrality with regard to CO2 emissions, as well as the European pillar of social rights and Porto Summit, the Social Summit in Portugal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84089	Before we answer, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84090	Article 238, insulting and disdaining MPs, counterpart Pavić says we do not understand European affairs. Yeah, you need to understand, it needs to be smaller than the macaw grain, tie the horse where your aga tells you, it's Mate Granic's school. This has also brought the Croats to BiH, led them into the situation that you are today, what you are finishing for your Brussels pluses today. If that's understanding The way it's supposed to be in Europe, then we don't understand it, we'll never understand it. [[Intruder: Collar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84091	You get a warning from your colleague Rasdic, you've replicated it again, and you haven't had any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I urge you not to do it anymore. My colleague Pavić will not eat, my colleague Boric you have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84092	Thank you very much, President. Article 238, because colleagues from MOST are practically calling us here all day and trying to convince us that they are some kind of protectors of the Croatian people in BiH. What I remember from my colleague Rasputic as the only act he contributed to that people that he built a Bruce Lee monument in Mostar. This is all he did, and this remains when we had a declaration of the rights of Croats in BiH MOST left the assembly, so that the citizens of Croatia know BiH as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84093	And this was a replica of my colleague, Boric, so you have to get a warning. Let's move on, now it's time for your colleague Peric, come on in. And excuse me, you have a reply to the replica, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84094	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavic, that's exactly what you're saying. We have a part of the people in the assembly that absolutely have no idea what they're talking about, but on top of that, they're misleading the public. Representative Rasdic says Milanovic vetoed the NATO Declaration. True, that the declaration may say something more and better than it says in the Council's conclusions, please, if you decrypt it in Croatian, in English, in German, in Italian, I will publicly commend you, if there is something more there than there is here. As for your ignorance of the functioning of the EU and the use of efforts that both Croatian diplomacy and the entire government on the subject, to send a message to your portals in BiH that you are a real protector, and the other no one knows anything, it is transparent, it is seen from the plane. Therefore, no one will benefit from your invention. from our work they will. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84095	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84096	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister in the public's focus is certainly Croatia's entry into the euro area from 1.1.2023 and what colleagues are saying about when this was actually happening in the last 20 years, efforts are being made precisely to introduce Croatia into this euro area. Namely, and the work of your previous government has shown that both these and the previous ones, especially since we entered the European Course Mechanism since 2020, are actually proving that systematic and quality steps are being made as the entry has proved to be very thoughtful. And what needs to be said is that we are a highly euro-based state and that this procedure is demanding and that it wants to actually enable citizens at as little cost as possible And let the entrance be as clear as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84097	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84098	Thank you very much, Mr. Perić, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Croatian Parliament, please follow this issue in detail and support this topic and thank you for this during the numerous discussions we have had here. What I'd like to say is that timing. So we entered on 1 July 2013, in the 13th, and the idea is to introduce EUR 1 January 2023, so that's 9.5 years. This is more than enough time for quality preparation, for meeting the criteria that existed in the accession treaty, for the public to understand we received at the beginning of EU entry a derogation not to introduce the euro immediately. So the derrogation was not needed immediately but when you meet the criteria. We did this with our own will, we did it, we're in the verification process, and now we're going to introduce it as we're going to achieve the goal of entering Schengen space. There are some who are not happy that we will achieve two strategic goals, but what we can do is that. He'll have to adapt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84099	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, and otherwise in the Croatian political area advocates European values, such as the protection of human rights, the independence of the judiciary, transparency in the conduct of state authorities, ministers, etc. But when it is not in their interest, they forget that Europe exists and would gladly be removed from that Europe. Why am I saying this? I follow at all meetings of the Croatian Council, you discussed the covid, the introduction of measures that involve the introduction of protection, i.e. derogation of certain rights, human rights at EU level. Well, one thing I'm interested in is whether or not one EU country, an EU member, has taken such measures by a two-thirds majority, which the whole opposition stands for. In May, you discussed the covid certificates. Whether only Croatia introduced a covid certificate or another state in Europe introduced a covid certificate as a means of protecting against this epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84101	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84102	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. I will only remind the Croatian public and also the opposition, so that we probably had one of the mildest measures comparatively at EU level because we were careful not to get too far into the freedom of our citizens because we know ultimately the mentality of our people and therefore we were extremely but extremely thoughtful all the time. These are more of these initiatives, here are petitions or perhaps a referendum or what will already be absurd. So if we had some kind of restrictive regime like some Western European countries, I'd say ok. It's really enough, it's been hard, it's been too much, but in this context it's all expensive and political and funny and everybody knows it. As far as the covid certificate is concerned, we were one of the countries that was first in having all the logistics ready for covid certificates and thus contributed to the tourist season. If we hadn't been so quick and effective, I doubt the 2021 results would be almost like 2019. There are some who don't even want a good tourist season. So the more obstacles it gets from their angle the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84103	Thank you. And we're going to the last line, dear colleague Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84104	The European Parliament has asked Croatia to open the file of South-Communist services of UDBA and KOS because they consider the employees of these services to be the real leaders of corruption8 and organised crime. You are opposing the European Parliament and protecting the refugees and the Kosovoers, and you are not opening their files. The European Commission condemned a large-scale meeting in Banja Luka that publicly celebrated genocide and ethnic cleansing. You are opposed to the European policy of peace and tolerance, and you are taking sides with the Belgrade nationalist regime, and you are defending Pupovac against criminal persecution. I remind you, for example, former Ukrainian President Peter Poroshenko has been charged with high treason, and what you're doing is high treason. Who gives you the right to confront Croatia with... It was this anti-European and anti-Croatian policy that led to the mass exodus of Croatian citizens from our country. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The Croatian people have survived various evils, so they will survive both this grammatical and egotistical power. But I'm asking you if you're aware that the time will come for the bill to be laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84105	Thank you. Your colleagues Vidovic Kristo are not here, so it is very difficult to pollemise or accuse the Prime Minister of high treason is extremely inappropriate. Please choose your words. Here you go. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84106	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a lot to hear in this House. First, Article 238 was injured. Indeed, there is much to be heard in this House, but that the representative at the Croatian Parliament of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia declares it a betrayal that is outrageous. This does not require sanctions and warnings, this requires much more than that. I am really worried about Mrs. Karoline Vidovic's thinking and attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84107	Yes, I said it was inappropriate and unacceptable. Representative Kristo isn't here. As you know, the least I can do is give her a warning. I find such a statement once again extremely inappropriate, unacceptable, incorrect and false, but that is what I can do the most that I can do at this point. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84108	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Vidovic Kristo, this is only one in a series of your unbulful tirads, which unfortunately we must listen to here in the Parliament. Unfortunately, since all your performances, I've never heard one that would be worth mentioning, quoting reason, common sense. I don't know what you're confabulating, what are all the ideas in your head, and where is the real author of these articles of yours that you read in order here every time. I don't even know if it's really your position or if you're just a speaker through the role of MPs in these performances that are pointless, bad, inappropriate and somehow below the level of the Croatian Civilian Assembly and everything that I've been trying to promote here and all of us together for years. You seem to me especially this way on the video like you've come from a time that has nothing to do with 2022, so I suggest you stay at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84109	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84110	Mr. Chairman, Article 238. Mr. Plenkovic insults the MPs, and you are obliged to interrupt him then. You must lead the order in the assembly. I have made uncontestable facts, factual decisions of the Committee of the European Parliament and of the European Commission's decisions. You, Mr. Jandrokovic, must be here to lead the order, to warn him that he is holding order, not to serve the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84111	counterpart Vidovic Kristo you accused the Prime Minister of high treason. Those are such hard words that you've been through very well with what I've told you. If you had said such a thing to me, I don't know how I'd pay you back, and now you're accusing me of warning him after what he said very civilizedly and mildly, given what you said, I think it's even more absurd than what you accused him of, so that I end up with this controversy, it's inappropriate and harmful at all for HS, Croatian Parliament and Croatian society. Let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic. Just before I ask you, and it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 30th session held on 18 January this year, the HS European Affairs Committee discussed the report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2021. delivered to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 13 January. The Committee on European Affairs shall, on the basis of the competences referred to in Article 1(1). 65. The Rules of Procedure of the HS discussed the report in question as a home working body. Report on European Council meetings held in 2021 he presented the Secretary of State for Political Affairs at the MVEP, stressing that the report covers a total of six meetings of the European Council held during the previous year in February, March, May, June, October and December 2021. The report also includes an informal meeting of the Heads of State or the Government of the EU on social issues held in May 2021. and a meeting at the EU-West Balkans summit last October. Since the Prime Minister is at the meeting of the Parliament on 12 July 2021. The secretary of state more focused on meetings held in the second half of 2021 and on the EU-West Balkans summit. The committee members specifically referred to enlargement policy issues from the neighbourhood of the Union, a common European response to the pandemic of the new crown of the virus and to Croatia's progress towards achieving the strategic objectives of entry into the Schengen area and the euro area. Following the debate, the Committee on European Affairs, with six votes in favour and three votes, has decided to propose to the HS the following conclusion "The report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held in 2021 is hereby adopted".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84113	Thank you very much. We are now going to the club presentation, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative, Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84114	Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are entering the ninth year that Croatia is a full member of the EU, but a large part of our citizens unfortunately feel it today. Pardon me, he senses that part of those 250 to 300,000 who have left the Republic of Croatia in those nine years and now live in Western European countries. A large part of us who stayed here, as I said, don't feel it and unfortunately all the statistics go into it. In fact, Croatia is today the most recent in EU development, per GDP per capita. She managed to defeat us in the meantime, even Romania, only Bulgaria remained behind. Croatia is currently at some 66% of the EU's average development, and there was no worse situation nine years ago when we joined the EU. Public debt in GDP is about 80%, but what is worst is that Croatia is among the worst EU countries in terms of the disappearance of the population, which shows this latest census where in just 10 years, we are even 9.5% less and almost 400,000 people. And these are all results not only of this but of all previous governments in the last ten years of both HDZ and SDP, but of all their partners. In order to become a modern and developed European country, we must stick to European criteria and many European standards, as well as European values. It is precisely the word that Prime Minister Plenkovic often uses, European values, but these European values are not grown by his first associates. So his first partner, SDSS leader Milorad Pupovac, opened just two months ago and clearly says that Storm was an ethnic cleansing of Serbs and none of the HDZ MPs responds either Prime Minister Plenkovic himself. On that same day, the same Milorad Pupovac openly threatened General Zeljko Sacic with a statement that you made out, referring to Grubore. Just two weeks ago, this Milorad Pupovac is leaving for a holiday that no institution in the EU recognises in Banja Luka on the so-called. Republika Srpska's day and instead of having Prime Minister Plenkovic, as we say in Slavonia get one shed card, he defends it and says that Pupovac was there as president of the SNV, not the president of the SDSS. So what's Milorad Pupovci? Two in one, three in one, depending on the need. Are these the European values that Prime Minister Plenkovic is talking about? We have several ministers among them, and we have Minister Villa Beros, who in the last year and a half, together with his headquarters, fighting against the covid pandemic, bringing a number of restrictive measures, sometimes less successful, and then this same minister gets caught or taken in a clock shop without a mask on his face and does not adhere to the measures he himself prescribed. If we stick to European values and European standards, the minister would at least apologize to the wider Croatian public or even resign, so is the case in Western European countries. We and Minister Horvat are unable to start a renovation in Banovina or in Zagreb which is unable to spend the planned European funds, but what is the worst accuses everything around them, and does not see its guilt about the reconstruction process itself, and we all know that every day that passes, and the reconstruction does not start to make the number of people in Banovina less and thus is already devastated. Are these European values? We have here present Minister Grlic Radman who clearly and loudly says that he is happy in such Croatia and his children are happy. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia if my first neighbor in Germany left a few years ago. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia because my best man in Denmark is with my wife and two children. I cannot be happy in this kind of Croatia because my cousin in Graz, a highly educated person, founded his family there. I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia because a few days ago my colleague and his wife and three children went to Ireland. I cannot and must not be happy as a parliamentary representative in this kind of Croatia, but some are obviously happy. And therefore once again I call on us from this place to push more attention despite the fact that we have the Vice-President of the European Commission for Democracy and Demography for Demographic Affairs within the European Council. But I also call on the prime minister and I am sorry that he is now not here to invite all parliamentary parties to the meeting, is this the time when demographics are concerned with the time of national unity to bring together demographic experts the country's demographic reconstruction strategy for the next 50 years, only in this way we can save Croatia. This is the time or there will be us or we won't be, and why then many planes and today Bradleys unless they have someone to guard and protect us because Croatia will be 50 to 80 years from now. be an empty country, and Croats as one of the oldest nations in Europe disappear. It is really high time that we put together the ranks of demographics and try to fight for ourselves, how much help this Europe will give us if we do not know how to help ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84115	The next Club of Representatives will be the Mosta, and the Honorable Representative, Nino Rasudić, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84116	Being that it would have to be a manifest says Hegel, but most obviously manifested in language. I've carefully read all 99 pages of this report. Personally, I would have been more interesting if I had read logarithmic tables because it testifies to the emptyness of bureaucratic minds, which are expressed in more and more cleverly also bureaucratic language. I'm not going to repeat the discriminatory analysis I did last year about last year's similar report, just to remind you that it's a world where there are no problems, difficulties or dangers, but from all sides, challenges arise. The empty English phrase “cellage” is bureaucratic as a kalk in Croatian sounds even more punitive. So in the report from only one meeting, we read the following, quote. The challenge of new variants of the virus creates great concern. The challenge is to assess the balance between caution and limitations. NATO Secretary-General said the health crisis is becoming a security challenge, and then NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg referred to threats coming from some third countries of destructive technology and climate change as challenges that no one can resist alone. Which third countries, what destructive technologies, what he's talking about, challenges, challenges from all sides. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who I see, left the session, speaks of the unprecedented challenges we face, the pandemic, the economic crisis as its consequence, the pressure of migration flows, demographic challenges, and many other global challenges require, beware, focus and commitment, and above all unity. Edward Cardellj is in some communist paradise if such is certainly somewhere proud of him, focus and commitment, and, above all, unity in the fight against challenges. At an extraordinary meeting of the European Council on 24 and 25 May, Prime Minister Plenkovic condemned in the debate the forced landing of the civil aircraft of Ryanair as well as the inadmissible move by the Belarusian authorities and, together with other leaders, called for the launch of an international investigation. And what happened? In last year's report, the late Sassoli said that the EU should not leave the impression of paper tigers on Belarus, and then that is exactly what happened, it once again proved that the EU is a paper tiger. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic exposed the geostrategic view of Russia's position and behaviour and Russian authorities in the debate. It considers it in the EU's interest for Russia to join a comprehensive but strong way of taking care of the Russian role in the European neighbourhood. Why is a comprehensive but powerful way, why is there a opposing ally, rather than a constituent, why not a comprehensive and powerful way? Only those who speak that bureaucratic language, I don't understand it very well, I guess they do. Some too high and contenty statements that we can agree on or disagree with, but it is clear what a man claims has expressed by Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki who has warned of, I quote, the gradual transformation of the Union into an organisation managed by institutions without democratic control of EU citizens. The Polish view is that the primacy of EU law does not reach and the constitutional system remains above any other legal principle. Now, we haven't seen here in this report what Croatia's position is, are we on the side of Poland or Brussels, as we stand on this challenge? The European Council meeting on 16 December 2021 said it was also about the vaccination of children, and Member States exchanged experiences in this regard. What experience, what experience, should children be vaccinated, what children, what vaccine? Pfizer came out at the end of 12 months with a statement that tests showed that children between two and five years of age do not have two doses well, so there should be a third. Do we agree with that? He doesn't have that information either. Then the introduction of vaccinations for all and the supply of additional doses are crucial and urgent writings in this context remains essential to overcome the hesitation by vaccination, including the suppression of misinformation. I agree. Were the misinformation also data from the manufacturer on the efficacy of the vaccine in the prevention of infection? 97% effective, 95 others, so what happened? We also have our colleagues who have been vaccinated three times and received the crowns. Will the manufacturers answer because they lied, and will we consider these misinformations to be misinformation? However, not to waste time on the allegations and challenges of strengthening resilience and the fight against climate change, we are going a little bit earlier mentioned in the replica, the conclusions of the EU Council on Enlargement and the Stabilisation and Association Process of 14 December 2021 in the BiH-related section, and what the Prime Minister has clearly failed. The Croatian public last few weeks finally had the opportunity to recognise Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's real strategy towards BiH and Croats in BiH. The strategy smells alarmingly like Prime Minister Matu Granic's special adviser, and later on, if I do not arrive in this address in an individual speech, I will explain why. Last month, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic visited Sarajevo to arrange a joint meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of Croatia. A few days later, we learned that the EU Council rejected Croatia's amendments on the legitimate political representation and equality of three constituent nations through electoral reform ahead of the October elections in BiH. Instead of blocking those conclusions, for example one year earlier, Bulgaria has done it due to small things to the harm of northern Macedonia, assessing that it is in line with its national interests, Plenkovic's government has decided to double its tail and as an obedient cado to do the task of cold betrayal of Croats in BiH, as well as Croatian interests as a whole. Then we had a situation where Minister Grlic Radman apparently had to iron the fact that Croatia gave up its own amendments on the orders of the chief. The question arises whether the permanent representative of Croatia to the EU, Andrassy or Andrasi, has even tried to lobby for the adoption of these amendments? Who gave Croatian negotiators the green light to give in to allowing the adoption of the EU Council's conclusion without amendments to Croatia? Was it Grlic Radman or Plenkovic? There are a lot of questions that remain unanswered. Sometimes I get the impression that we have three foreign policies, Milanovic, Plenkovic and Grlic Radmanova. Grlic Radmanova is particularly interesting because as soon as Grlic Radman puts a little pressure on the defence of Croatian interests, and I believe he sincerely wants to help the Croats in BiH, and then, very quickly behind the scenes, he apparently gets through the ears, and that's the same Grlic Radman, with his tail wrapped in front of the cameras, ironing the situation and pulling himself out. For example, the public could see that. in the sanctions of Milorad Dodik. When Grlic Radman said he should insist on dialogue, not on sanctions that Germany and the Netherlands have strongly advocated to take off some of his frustrations over past sins, Plenkovic sharpened the situation by opening the front towards Dodik probably by order of Berlin and Brussels. So, the prime minister decided to close if not both of those around before Bosniak radicalism, because now the trend in Europe was to talk about sanctions, and he also boasted about building the Pelješka bridge, which two members of the Bosniak presidency Jaferovic and usurped Komsic wanted to block, so that Dodik, because somehow, we don't know yet how he made the veto and saved the building of the Peljeski Bridge. That's what we got ourselves into. He comes to the trouble of the godfather or ally because SDS is the second Serbian option even worse, the SDS that is close to federal Sarajevo policies and the international community. Croatia's left hand had an illusion about young Stanivovic Mayor Banja Luka sees a lost Dodik in Banja Luka super some young people come now to be cool and European, so when the first statements came, this harder Serb than Dodik. There is no Serb factor in Republika Srpska that would detached a millimeter from the concept of Republika Srpska. We are constantly wondering why the Serbs in BiH are itching. So, it's no good, Dodik, and now it's good for Karadzic's SDS who created the Republika Srpska and ethnically cleaned that partner of the Sarajevo politics and the international community, the difference is that SDS's assessment of why their leaders publicly told the Croatians why Dodik defends Croatia is better off being one of two than one in three, so let's let the Bosniaks fully match the Federation's political Croats, so Serbs and Bosniaks will sort of agree with the entity. Dodik thinks differently not because he loves Croats more than he obviously thinks if the Croats totally fall in BiH that Bosniak politics will not remain on it but will go further to the arrival of Republika Srpska, it means only different Serbian national tactics of which one of us is more in favour. But this does not mean that one Croat or member of the ruling majority in Croatia should go to celebrate the Republic of Serbia. Recognising BiH as we have signed Dayton with all the ingredients is one thing we recognize, but we don't have to celebrate it. Resumption in free speech, now only briefly about what the final speech will be about words for the Club of Representatives Mosta this report is not acceptable. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84117	The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84118	For the record, Mr. Vice President. 238, due to his colleague Rasdovic's sentence that the left of Croatia had some kind of illusion about Mr Stanivovic. The Party of Democratic Progress is the right centre of the Social Alliance depends on the Social Democrats not the right centre, although they behave that way. Therefore, I don't know where you got it from, but I would like it for the sake of the Croatian public and for the record correct even if I am sanctioned by Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84119	You know I have to give you a warning because it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the Honored Minister Gordan Grlic Radman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84120	... Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here's listening to this distinguished colleague of the Rasputic that I, for example, stayed at home and read this Hegel, might actually believe him, but allow me as a witness and time, working in diplomacy and this government that I can't really be surprised, I respect you as an intellectual, but with so much ignorance, so much superficiality, so much politics towards this government and towards actually not knowing matter, but fundamental matter. [[Specially enabled.]] If you had, talk about communautaire, it's a document that's June 14th, so you speak up President Milanovic that's your right, in the communautaire that stands, is read communautaire, mentions the Dayton Agreement. In the Council conclusions on 14 December where I was, it is the greatest success that this government has actually made, this Plenkovic government that you are constantly calling, if someone has done for the Croats in BiH, then it is Plenkovic and all of us together who were present, of course we are always present in this committed struggle towards the position of Croatians and Croatian peoples. If you were to go around BiH and testify to institutions where you need to, watch out for diplomacy as one body in the executive government, there is also parliamentary diplomacy, I would like to see the effects of your work, not just to read Hegel, perhaps even it is better to read Hegel than to actually say what is incorrect. It is in these Council conclusions that the diplomatic dictionary contains what is really the most important, and these are the institutional mechanisms of the Dayton-Paris Agreement, that is the sentence of Mr Rasdic that you read the agreement of 17 June 2020 signed by Bakir Izetbegović and Dagan Covic then you would see that there stands the removal of all forms of discrimination and inequality in the electoral process etc., I didn't know that you would set it up so I didn't bring it, otherwise it's a public document, you can look at it. On the other hand, the debate was huge where some countries insisted only on implementing the European Court's decisions. It was our success, I am speaking to you as a man who was on the spot, so in a arena where you have different countries, different approaches where we have lobbyed some countries to include exactly the Constitutional Court verdict that implies the verdict in the case of Ljubic Ljubic Ljubic. Therefore, I do not know about Mate Granic's school which man was the longest minister, had and certainly had with a great reputation and witnessed for a time and which means blocking. What would you block? Well, BiH is so blocked. Compare Northern Macedonia and Bulgaria, so you don't know the way, process. So, Northern Macedonia is a country, a candidate to open, it needs to open and run negotiations, and BiH has not yet met 14 criteria, so you can what, which means, in fact, the conclusions of the council of ministers, does not mean anything, means actually intermediation, you have helpers who are meaning on the American side, on the EU's side down, sent down in fact to define with the leaders of political parties the future in changing the electoral law that should, which in fact Croatia extremely advocates, of course we have had a lot of talks with all the political leaders, we recognize in our talks on the EU how much ignorance is deep. Therefore, we are now working, filling all the gaps that the governments so far have had in BiH. That's what I'm telling you as a witness to the time, man is on the ground all the time from morning till night, which is in the interest of not only political but therefore someone who was born and BiH. So, my colleague, I'm sorry, you're an intellectual, etc., you're reading Hegel, that's good, but you don't understand politics, you don't understand diplomacy, so you're making arguments against you. If you have other arguments, you give them away, but these are my arguments that I'm telling you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84121	We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of the Rasdics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84122	Better to prepare for Hegel than Cardell, so much for literature. Maybe I don't know anything about diplomacy, I don't know this Mate Granićevsky, and I don't want to know about semitronic, servant enough to look at Wikileaks of Jandrokovic's videos there and beyond what kind of diplomacy it is. Saget himself before you enter a foreign embassy, file reports, do nothing for his people. In, you talked about NATU and that declaration, there was nothing in it, Milanovic asked for it so Dayton got in, and for these conclusions you gave the amendments and after they didn't adopt them, nothing, you didn't adopt here we'll sign this next. There are less than 9 months left until these elections, you act as an anesthesiologist in the operation to rip off the political head of the Croats in BiH. Time stands out, drags you by the nose and Bakir Izetbegovic and Bosniak politics, and you are too cowardly towards Brussels and Berlin above all who lead the policy of abolishing the constituent peoples. I'll see you in the fall, I wish I was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84123	Thank you. Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're wrong, I can tell you that you're wrong, totally wrong because believe me, because I know the processes, I know the conversations, the other whale means President Milanović was at that point as president of the Republic there, but you don't really know that we had at the level of Secretary of State Fran Matusic who was actually running that whole communication, we have an experienced ambassador who was an adviser to President Tudjman, so everything that was installed inside has been built in thanks to our diplomacy. You're talking to me about Dayton as the greatest success, but it's a fact, and I'm telling you right now, you're criticizing the Council of Ministers' conclusions, and I'm telling you exactly how they are the most, the greatest diplomatic achievement of all. But you're not comparing the other documents that were before, this is our greatest achievement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84125	The Honorable representative of the Grmoya has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84126	So, respected ministers that this policy that you and Prime Minister Plenkovic are talking about has some results we could call it wise and smart, but that policy, if we look at the relationship to Serbia, has no results. Serbia is not cooperating. Croatian victims have not and their families have not received satisfaction. We don't know anything about the missing. That's the result of your policy. And then fellow Stier gets up and imagine saying it's a fruit, Serbia has opened negotiations during the common government of the Most and HDZ. Lie! The technical government, Minister Kovac, opened negotiations, gave the green light, and Minister Sprlje announced on the Justice Ministry's pages that he was against it. The HDZ opened, therefore, and allowed Serbia to start these negotiations. Serbia is still making progress and you are doing nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84127	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Likewise, if a man listens to you, he may believe you, but you simply politicize, you distort facts when we talk about Croatian victims who more than this government does exactly what it does to get answers to our victims for our families to find out where they're missing. December 14th was an intergovernmental conference where these clusters were opened that you told me about. I said then and then it remained public that I wanted to point out that the messages on our concerns, the expectations I had made at an earlier conference in Luxembourg almost 8 years since the opening of accession negotiations and five and a half years ago since the opening of negotiations in chapters 23 and 24. It is high time for concrete, sustainable, non-refundable results, especially in the area of solving the fate of the missing, the processing of war crimes and minority rights. Therefore, we strongly advocate Mr Grmoy in the missing and in the OSCE, Commissioner for Minority Rights in the Council of Europe, Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN, but you do not follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84129	There's no record of that policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84130	Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. From what you said, you said there was great ignorance in the European Council around Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, it's very close to what he said between the ranks in his own way and the Prime Minister. Therefore, the impression is that there is no large amount of understanding in the European Council for Croatian politics towards BiH, and in fact it was not in the Council's conclusions. You've made some arguments in this debate. I'm not even going in with Mr. Rasdic. But I'm actually interested in how you see a continuation of it, or whether you can predict some outcomes of your efforts and some deadlines for them. So here's an unburdened question. I'm really interested in how you see some further development of your efforts and their results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84132	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84133	Thank you very much. That's a very good question and constructive. Unfortunately, there is no if you remember in 2000 the first thing that the coalition government did then has abolished special relations with the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or it was simply later from these benches here that Croatia has committed aggression towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thus, all governments had indeed acted in such a way as to be defensive. But here we really participate actively in bringing about the importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability, functionality. Because here it can be disrupted precisely that stability unless all three constituent nations are satisfied. This is why it is important now to adopt amendments to the electoral law that would guarantee the political legitimate representation of all three peoples in collective bodies means the Presidency and the House of Peoples. It's a vital interest. Unfortunately, the commissioners have been changing their reform since 2000 to the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84134	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84135	Dear Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, and here we can see from this debate that somehow patriotism or sovereignty is being identified with an isolationalism where the prime minister is also called and why we are not going into isolation, to get away from everyone and why we are not blocking everything. When we are, and that's modern sovereignty. When we are present, when we sit evenly at the table and there are you and Croatian diplomacy and thank the Secretary of State Metelko-Zgombić and assistants Ujević and all of us can clearly articulate our position, and our attitude towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, towards Serbia, according to... It is very clear and there we are the only ones who can protect Croatian interests in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these attacks on President Milanovic and MOST and on permanent representative Irene Andrasa, who is also an engine of protection of Croatian interests in Brussels, I think they are below every level where you and all the gleams protect our interests in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84136	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84137	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative Pavić. Of course, we are pleased that the president of the country can also join in supporting the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know when he was prime minister, so even at the time of the government where he was, I say, a leading man and, of course, earlier as a diplomat, but this government, of course headed by Andrej Plenkovic, means I testify as foreign minister. We have managed to do as all of those governments before, perhaps, it's actually difficult and measureable because unfortunately a lot has not been done. There was a lot of passivity towards our relationship with BiH. As if there was some strange guilt of the atmosphere, that if Croatia engages more, it will be called etc. I think we're showing maturity now, we're showing that we're respectable, and we can be more heard, and I think our proposals are being respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84138	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84139	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, in this step of yours and these answers, we have heard on several occasions about the success of you and the success of Prime Minister Plenkovic and in these efforts and how much you have done more than any other government. But what I would like to know and what I think is the subject, and the topic is in general about the country's accession from these areas of our EU, is that it is a test of the Union's ability to expand the values that have established it. Therefore, those values that have led the EU to expand the values of peace, prosperity, the functioning of institutions and we are interested in these meetings as to how ready it is, how far it has gone in this active role of the EU to recognize it and that it is indeed ready for all these processes. These processes remained somewhat below the radar in the context of the covid crisis, in the context of a crawling, even no longer crawling crisis related to energy, but that is the essence that we are interested in with these meetings that were.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84141	Thank you, ma'am. Dark-Taritash. This is a pretty good question. Well, it is Croatia that, therefore, shares the longest border from BiH where actually Western Balkan countries actually make up the immediate neighbourhood we are actually constantly aware of on all councils of the topic of the Western Balkans and enlargement. Of course, there are many other topics on the councils and the Middle East and Africa and Venezuela and the Eastern Partnership and Russia, etc., China, but just thanks to Croatian diplomacy, we highlight the importance of the Western Balkans as a possible space where we experience geostrategic competitions as a space that should be primarily focused on achieving a European perspective, of course and, in fact, the Euro-Atlantic perspective of NATO membership, everything we have achieved in these 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84142	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84143	Dear Minister, thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I would like to know how you comment on the fact that when I was a Croatian euro-parliamentary who collected the signatures of most of the then-Croatian euro-parliamentaries, I did an analysis of the controversial Serbian law that allowed Serbia to take the powers of the small Hague and, on the basis of the arrest of Croatian defenders and provided this legal analysis to the then prime minister, Mr Milanovic, Mrs. G. Pusic as deputy prime minister and foreign minister, then Prime Minister Oreskovic, Minister of Justice Mr. Sprlja, that in fact I was, in some ways, demoted and attacked, so I ask that Serbia should not be allowed to open negotiations on the basis of the document. It is a document drawn up by the Law Academy, the Croatian Legal Academy, which received a review from Harvard from the most respected legal experts and showed that at that given moment we needed to react in order to set the conditions for Serbia. All these discussions are a little late now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84144	The reply to the replica, please select the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84145	Of course, I agree with you, Your Honor. Petir, but it's actually our approach here, so when it comes to 4. Cluster he includes actually areas of transport, energy, environmental protection and is actually related to the implementation of the green, green agenda, so he is one European project. However, that is, the Cluster, or those 4 chapters. However, Croatia, when it comes to order really these serious areas of rule of law, means fundamental areas which are not only a bilateral issue but are also a legal gain, the question of the missing is not only a bilateral issue, but rather a legal gain, the question of the missing, the question of why there are minorities, these are actually fundamental issues which, which Serbia must give an answer to, and therefore we need to talk about. We can't just block something, and then wait for it to freeze.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84146	Next, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84147	Well, I've picked up on my colleague Petyr before, but you haven't seen it. So, he's injured. 238. and this is a very worrying statement made by counterpart Petir, in fact that Croatia can no longer do anything and that everything is over, and Prime Minister Plenkovic assures us that they are following everything and will respond in time. So, here's a confirmed member of the ruling coalition that we actually let Serbia, and thanks to the HDZ government that Marijana Petir holds her hand to go through this European path without the fate of our missing, our victims and all that Serbia has done in this large-serb aggression, and in fact, to have the possibility of a break would seek a break, this is one scandalous statement that all of us must worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84148	You know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. That's your third violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're losing your right to the end of the debate. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84149	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, because his colleague Grumoja degrades and presents things that are not true. I said exactly the opposite that the SDP ministers with their coalition partners and the Most's who had the opportunity to set the standards missed doing it and now they're waiting for those chapters where you didn't set the criteria, and you were supposed to come to the agenda to do what we can do, and we're doing what we can through negotiations because you didn't do what you had to do when you had power. Your Minister of Spralje, however, insulted me once, and when I provided him with a legal analysis that was a key argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84150	And you know that this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you know...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84151	You are lying and do not present yourself as a believer anymore because you are lying because Minister Šprlje has made a statement in which he has expressed himself against the opening of Chapter 23.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped/....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84152	Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoy, don't, Mr. Grmoy, you have no right to speak. Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoy Mr. Grmoy reminds you again, and this is you, you must leave the session. Mr. Grmoya, please leave the session. You've received your fifth warning. Please leave the hall. Okay. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84153	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, such insult and demeaning of MPs, especially the representative was not long remembered in the Assembly Hall, it shows that his colleague Grumoja has no home education, and that she is constantly lying, we know that because she is becoming evidence, media reported that I have issued a legal analysis that has shown the harmfulness of this Serbian law and that I have struggled to free Veljko Maric. I was the only Croatian official who visited him in prison and was transferred to Croatia to serve time, from Serbian prison saved You're telling me I'm lying. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Well, your minister. He was incompetent. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] as you have shown that you as a bridge are incapable of acting in power. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84154	And another reminder to you. I'm declaring a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84155	You are Stjepan Mesic... to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84156	Five-minute stand.../Speakers speak at the same time./... remove counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84157	I'm not nervous. I... MEETING AT 5:45 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84158	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 17:50 A.M.]] We have two more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84159	I'm pulling because you've intervened correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84160	Okay. Here you go, dear representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84161	Dear Mr. Vice President. Yeah. Here is also in the interest of the record and the Croatian public I would just react, I think I am a little bit correcting my colleague Petir who said that the only Croatian official who visited Veljka Marić in prison. [[Sandader: Please.]] Fred Matic also visited him, eventually with Ivica Dacic resolved his transfer to Croatia. Here's just as much, if you need a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84162	You know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. And we'll make sure it was half a warning. Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84163	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I welcome your going out to deny everything a colleague said in front of the Bridge Club and I think you did it well, but it's very important to me and that someone does more than he does. That's why I asked Mr. Rasdic, who is the real Rasdic one and in 2005 who is raising the Brus Lee monument in Mostar and speaking there are no Croats, there are no Serbs, there are no Bosniaks in BiH all citizens or the one who today says that we as a party are somehow dominating the consistency of the Croatian people with our behaviour and our policies. Imagine that change in 16 years. What is the real Nino Rasudiæ or Most who, on the declaration of position of the Croats in 2018, is ordered by Grmoje to leave the assembly, and today are as the greatest protectors of exactly the position and condition of the Croats in BiH, who are the people, their behaviours, what are they doing and how do they contribute? That's what citizens need to know so they don't have to be fooled by these rude MPs who are capable just conflicts to create to get to [[Santer Invader: Time.]] to some of their policies and small points. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84164	The reply to the replica, please select the Minister. Here's your answer. Do you have something, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84165	Well, I'm just, I can only agree with Mr. Boris. Indeed, the Parliament of each state is a prominent legislative body, which must now serve as an example precisely because they have been chosen by the voices of their citizens to act because it is actually understood, it should not seem to me to be questioned, but to be understood. I always compare no one is ideal but I'm sorry when I remember those first assemblies that were sprayed by knowledge, from good debates, controversy, so if they were different and so in terms, but then there was respect, they were elegant language parades based on arguments. And this is here to hear it said I won't go out, to lie, etc. I'm really worried about that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84166	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84167	Thank you. I think the HDZ has been a failure for 25 years to protect the rights of the Croats in BiH, but it may just be my impression. So, my view is that the EU is in fact completely irrelevant to what it concludes on the BiH issue because there are no mechanisms for how to implement it, so amendments to the electoral law, changes to the BiH Constitution can only be implemented in the BiH Parliament where we have both Bosniak and Croatian and Serbian and civil parties and without their agreement, the EU will not impose it. And this is more about a heterogeneous group of countries where countries also have opposing attitudes, such as Hungary and the Netherlands. In that sense, all our efforts within the EU are in the beginning, it just seems to me that retaining the status quo that this party that we disagree with within the EU is not prevailing because I don't think we can help much more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84168	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84169	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. It's fortunate, for example, that the HDZ would have been a happy circumstance if it had been in power for 25 years. You know very well that it wasn't, but the key years were exactly 2000. when the government of Ivica Racan had just given up special relations when it was from these benches that your coalition partners said that Croatia had committed aggression on BiH, it confused international actors. On the other hand, the EU is not the EU judge, you know, so BiH wants to join the EU it is looking for the right, meeting the relevant criteria as Switzerland also wants to do. Thus, the EU comes here as a helper in resolving the issues of BiH's political structure, equality and the constitutionality of the people for which Croatia is extremely interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84170	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we don't have any more replicas you can sit down. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84171	Thank you. For historical truth, Art. 238th for a reminder, due to historical truth, a sentence on the aggressive HDZ policy in BiH was given by the president of the HNS, and the HNS is yours, not our coalition partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84172	Well, you know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Next is the debate on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representative, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84173	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Do not be lazy in the introduction when I was preparing this material then once again I took the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and read Article 11 which says that once a year the Prime Minister submits a report on the meetings of the European Council held in the last year. It is an obligation stemming from this important law that we have passed to coordinate and regulate the co-operation of executive and legislative authorities in European affairs as a member of the EU. And then I was a little surprised in paragraph 3 of that same Article 11, the Prime Minister is said to present a written report on certain meetings within 15 days of the date of each meeting of the European Council. I have to say that there's no information about whether these written reports are coming in or not. I'm pretty sure they didn't come to me, and I don't know if any other MPs took them in any form. I did not find any trace of such reports between the agendas and the conclusions of the European Affairs Committee meetings available on the Assembly website. Since it is the legal obligation of the Prime Minister, I ask that it begin to be fulfilled if it is not fulfilled or I ask the Assembly to deliver these written reports to us in the event that the Prime Minister sent them to the assembly in the manner and within the time limits prescribed by the law. So much for an introduction. On the other hand, in July of last year, the prime minister verbally and in writing briefed us on meetings held during the first half of the year, and that was good, and in that part it went beyond the legal obligation and the debate opened on this important topic. The participation of our representatives in the work of the highest European institutions is an important part of Croatia's not foreign but internal policy and the assembly must pay more attention to this part as we are all aware of the problems that parliaments in the Member States have in, to keep up with the decision-making processes at Union level. Since we had this debate in July, we would have actually done a good part of this report. Of the 8 meetings on 5, we've already had a chance to discuss it. In the first part of the year, the dominant topic was Covid pandemic, vaccination and other topics related to the coronary virus. I said that then, and I'm going to do it again today, if Covid is something that has once again proved how important and correct a decision I am to be to be a member of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. The huge money invested in the development of the vaccine and its distribution when it was ready for use, so the money that came in different ways from the Union to get over or to ease the economic crisis, all of it was tangible and huge benefits that we had from membership. I'm convinced that this whole job would be a lot harder for us if we weren't members, not that I'm convinced, I'm absolutely sure of it. My feeling was then that some other important topics remained slightly in the other plan. What am I talking about? On security and defence, on the southern neighbourhood, on the single market, on industrial policy, on digital technologies, on the economy, on the Eastern Mediterranean, on Russia, on social issues, on climate change, on the United Kingdom, on Turkey, on the Middle East, on Africa, on cybersecurity, all of these are extremely important topics that have somehow remained unsaid at the level of general places although this should not be so. One topic that goes through the report is enlargement. We at the Club of the Centre and GLAS support the EU enlargement in particular to countries in our immediate neighbourhood. One reason is the stability and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia itself, which will certainly have better conditions and safer life, if it is surrounded by European countries of relatively developed institutions that have managed to integrate into the Union, but because of the union itself, we believe that enlargement policy is extremely important. It has long been one of the most successful parts of European policy. The part where fundamental European values are spread and strengthened in practice, let us not forget, peace, prosperity and functional institutions, and here we now come to the part of the report that we have not had the opportunity to discuss. The autumn season began with a meeting at the EU-West Balkans summit. What is good is that at that meeting, the Union declared its commitment to the enlargement process. What we do not think is good is that this process has remained at best for a long time at a declarative confirmation of commitment without some concrete and visible results. The question of the accession of countries from these areas of our EU is the test of the ability of the Union itself to expand the values for which it has been established and not somewhere far away, not elsewhere, but here in Europe's belly, several hours of driving by car from major European metropolis. We therefore believe that the role of the Union in this process should also be more active and proactive, the process cannot be just waiting for what will happen and the inability to resolve disputes and obstacles that ultimately discourage candidate countries and reduce the reputation and strength of the EU itself. I am particularly referring to the case of Northern Macedonia which has long become a real agony that neither ends nor ends can be seen. The concrete resolution of open issues and the ability of political Brussels to play a clear and constructive role in the interests of Croatia itself is both in the case of our open issues with countries in the region and in the case of the overall stabilisation and European perspective of our nearest neighbours. In this sense, I am convinced that Croatia could also find a way to play a bigger and more important role there. Our relations and understanding of the region, our interrelationship with the fates of our neighbours, the assistance Croatia has already given to the Western Balkan countries in various ways, and even I will say this personal understanding and commitment of the Prime Minister of European and foreign policies, which is so difficult to say, but that is the case, Croatia is a specific advantage over other EU member states and should also be used to strengthen our country's position in the region itself and throughout the Union. As both humans and as states, we must be able to realistically assess our own possibilities that we should make maximum use of. There are not many topics in which Croatia can play a leading role in the face of larger and stronger members of the Union. But I am convinced of this topic of expanding the European perspective and stabilising the region could be one of those in which we play a role that is greater than ourselves. The EU agenda has also come up with the question of energy prices, ours, and when I say ours, I mean not only Croatia, but the Union's main energy is gas and we almost fully import it from Russia. We also import almost all the oil we spend. Large price and supply problems cause concern not only because of the direct consequences of the economy and citizens' standards, but also because of the political and geostrategic exposure that this dependence on import gas and oil carries with it. It's not yesterday, but it's one of the problems. In fact, this is an old issue of the Union's weakness over some other big world players and at the same time the inability to take a more visible and serious step towards strengthening the single EU on a global political map, or its strategic independence in every respect. Croatia has its own niche within the EU, and I think it is too little to act and this is one problem that will no longer be a problem, but we are talking about challenges. It will be one of the challenges for sure this 2022. Of course, the subject of covid isn't gone. The average Union vaccination rate is between 60% and 70% and the European Council estimates that it is insufficient and it is really insufficient. And did our prime minister at least get a little red when he was asked what was the cleavage in us? It may be better not to ask ourselves that, but I would like the work that you do here in Croatia at meetings of the European Council to classify us among those who are examples, not among those who are ashamed at least in something, at least a few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84174	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84175	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of Mrak-Taritash is right. The submission of this report today is not a good will of the Prime Minister, it is an obligation stemming from the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2013 and which came into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, and that Mr Plenkovic is very well aware of it can also be established from the archives of the Croatian Parliament, given the number of amendments he has submitted to the law himself. But okay, let's let it go now. This may be less important, but it should remain recorded that something that the prime minister's legal obligation is trying to show as a goodwill. Let's talk about what's concrete, and that's what happened on the European councils last year. The European Councils discussed a lot of things, and it is difficult to sum it up in one parliamentary debate, and in particular in the 10-minute exposure to which we have the right as representatives of clubs, but I will still try to absorb what is personal to me, and I believe that most citizens and citizens of this country are most important, and that is what has been discussed on 21, 22 October 2021, is about inflation and energy poverty, so the European Council has concluded and invited the Member States and the European Commission to go with the support of the most vulnerable citizens and companies, to come up with medium-term and long-term measures to reduce energy prices, and also to talk about tax redundancies, which was spoken publicly in the European Parliament a few days before, and the President of the European Commission Van den Leyen. Croatia did nothing of it, nothing of it. The only measure was the freezing of fuel prices. Today, three months after this session of the European Council, Croatia is still considering, considering, considering, considering. The energy crisis is not at the door, it is there, it is happening to us and, of course, the price of fuel, gas, oil on the world market cannot be blamed by one country the size of Croatia. He can't! But for the burden that this energy crisis has on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which this energy crisis has for the Croatian economy, there is the role of the state, there is the moment where we no longer need to ask ourselves what we can do for the state but as citizens of this country we have a lot of right to ask a question and ask for an answer, and that is what the state can do for us. And he can do a lot! And that's what's worst. It can do much to support the EU, which called on Member States on the Council on 21st and 22nd October to react precisely to measures, direct transfers, tax discharges, etc. Help the economy. Croatia does not do that. And I'm sorry that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is not here right now to tell us one more time, so yes, we may not do it now, but in the future we certainly will. So esteemed colleagues and colleagues when this future will finally come, that this government wakes up and does something for people who should be represented in the EU, as well as at European Council meetings. But if, in terms of energy poverty and inflation, our government will not do anything, then there is one energy issue where our government is doing something, so the government of the Republic of Croatia, let's say, was discussed in December at the European Council, joined France and some other Member States in defending nuclear energy. What does that mean? Does this mean that Croatia plans to build a nuclear power plant in its area, or does this mean that we are planning with some Member States in our neighbourhood, which is two Croatia and Hungary. A minister in the current government then minister in Karamark's government has announced his participation in the business with the Hungarians in the construction of a nuclear power plant, I wonder if this has become the politics of the HDZ government again? But if that's the politics of the HDZ government, then I want us to talk clearly about the nuclear energy and the risks it carries. If it is not co-operation with the Hungarians then it remains as a possibility of possible co-operation with Slovenia and the construction of the Krško nuclear power plant, close to Zagreb with all the risks it carries, but let the risks aside because it is fortunate to date proven to be extremely safe, safer than numerous, but with nuclear energy it has one other question, which is the price. Nuclear energy is no longer nearly as favourable, and the matter is better built by such a block in the most optimistic scenarios, in the most orderly states it does not last less than 10 years. If I say it'll be closer to two 10 years than once, I certainly won't make a mistake. And that's why I'm interested in when we take all this data into account, when we know the price and the risks that that nuclear energy carries, when it's still to assume that we're not going to build a nuclear power plant on our territory, which is why we support those countries that have gathered France and are in favour of it. Which is why we don't join other countries that think about our environment, which talk about how much alternative energy sources have become cheaper in the last 10 years, like Germany, so let's just rely on it and be the base for our energy development because fighting energy poverty, the fight with energy poverty, it's not just about what I was talking about inflation, it's not about the short term. In the long run, we have to deal with energy sources and ours as much autonomy as possible, and it's completely impossible to imagine or realize, but as much as possible. There is something where Croatia can do, of course, provided that these renewable energy sources are not built in the future according to Mrs. A Roman and a similar one, but it can only be left by leaving HDZ and we will work on it. Shengen. Dear colleagues and colleagues, even after the Prime Minister stepped into my lineup, we do not know when we will enter the Schengen. We don't know, we don't have an answer for that. What we only have hope of, we have a further Prime Minister that everything will be settled in June, just as we hope that the money from the Solidarity Fund will be spent by June, but we remember and hold you by word and when 17 June passes, when that June comes next we will ask not only for the Solidarity Fund, we will ask for Schengen and we will ask for clear answers. It's both in the interests of this country and don't think we're looking forward or God forbid it doesn't happen. No, we want to see Croatia in Schengen, and we want every drop from the Solidarity Fund to be spent and invested in the Republic of Croatia. But don’t be angry that we have that grain of salt that prevents us from trusting you with your “mothers we. ” You've said it too many times to make it credible. Euro. Yeah, one more thing about which we should speed up and start the engines. Yesterday we have the opportunity to listen to the former governor of the Slovenian National Bank who spoke about how the euro in that country, which is a little bit more orderly and slightly more prepared than Croatia is for many things, and thus the introduction of the euro has led to inflation of between 7% and 8%. Give us an assessment that this inflation we have today is expected by the introduction of the euro, and how are we not going to prevent this inflation on citizens, but at least a little less? And for the end, enlargement and relations with BiH. I am afraid, and this report, in this fear, confirms that the Republic of Croatia, or Plenkovic's government, simply fails to impose its position and priorities on partners within the EU, nor when enlargement is about what we require to meet the countries that want to join the EU above all Serbia, nor when it comes to BiH's status, above all to the Electoral Law. Comrade Bauk was quite clear about this where he saw the problem with BiH and I have no God-knows-what to add. But this one lacmus paper, that the influence of this Plenkovic on the European Council and it's not exactly what it shows. We, of course, cannot support this report because of everything we've been told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84176	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84177	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, allow me to welcome the continuation of the practice of a more transparent approach to the debate on European topics, which also contributes to the regular annual debate on the European Council meetings held. We need to raise awareness of some facts, one of which is definitely that European affairs are not foreign affairs, European affairs are internal affairs European affairs are partly and external, but in our Union they have become much more important than foreign affairs and therefore deserve such discussions. In fact, there are many topics that are being discussed at European level and it is simply impossible to inform the public about them all, but as we heard from the European Council meeting, it was also debated about very current issues that have a strong impact on the quality of life of all of us, especially given the current epidemiological circumstances. In fact, the European Council is the youngest EU institution to have institutional status only through a Lisbon contract, but it is probably the most important institution. The topics discussed at the meetings of the European Council point to problems that need to be addressed, as well as differences of opinion between Member States. Let me also welcome from this speaker the Prime Minister's initiative to present a report on the held meetings of the European Council and more often than it is a legal obligation, although I must conclude that it often does not work when it comes to bad news from Brussels, but regardless of how often we discuss European issues in this House and for this pay phone, and I believe that even greater participation of the Prime Minister himself gives added value because a lot of things cannot be read from the written report, but we can hear from the oral since the President of the Government participates directly in the meetings, as many meetings are held in... format or on margins, so it can give us a much bigger and clearer picture than we can get from a written report. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to express regret that the government does not deliver views before the meeting itself. We often discuss them post-festum, but the practice of obtaining them in advance would certainly improve our discussions on committees and working bodies and the quality of work as regards European jobs. I understand that in some things it is simply impossible because it is often about ad hoc topics and that the government takes views directly before going to the council or some other form of meeting, but no matter where it is possible it would be good to see them in advance that interested bodies above all can discuss and give certain suggestions to the government. In these challenging times of the coronary virus pandemic, we see that many meetings have been held via videoconferencing, that the Digital Europe programme, in fact, amounts to nearly two billion euros for a faster digital transition, has its ability, need and use. But there is also Croatia pretty much behind other member states, and the results of the index of economic and social digitisation, so-called DESI for 2021. shows that we only took 19th place in the EU. This is something that we do not need to be satisfied with, and in time we need to make additional efforts to change this. At council meetings, the Prime Minister generally praised the battle against the coronary epidemic in Croatia, so sometimes I like to wonder if we live in the same country because Croatia is among the 10 worst in Europe, but also among the 10 worst in the world. The headquarters is a political body that acts for someone's benefit or which often acts politically, so we do our hair on the data as to who it corresponds to at a given time. At the beginning of the year when the vaccine was inaccessible, the current slogan “Think of Other Vaccinations”, but in smaller cities and places, it is often not possible to reach vaccines, so the question of where people are being vaccinated by thinking of themselves and others. Even in the whole story of the crown, private interest was involved, and more than a million kunas were paid for the site “Kronavirus” without competition. These are just some of the facts that I think we need to remind and think about when we are considering this report. Several times the report mentioned demographics as immigration. As we know, the Vice President of the European Commission for Demography is Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, and Croatia is again among the worst in Europe with the most evicted population according to Eurostat data. Maybe she's qualified to do that. I sound like the person who has the most experience with eviction and demographic disaster. Unfortunately, the government projections that the Croatian economy is the fastest growing obviously do not come upon fertile soil because Croatians still do not wait to leave, especially since Switzerland has recently opened up to us as well as some other countries, and not even a statement by the Minister of Labour Aladrovic that Croatia's phenomenal place for life has failed to keep Croats in Croatia, so obviously one idea is presented to the council while reality is somewhat different. I see that several times in the presentations are mentioned the earthquake, so as well as my predecessors, I would like to remind the Croatian public that Croatia from the Solidarity Fund is at the end of December 2020. I won 5.1 billion kunas we haven't spent so far, and by all accounts, we won't. I don't like being a bad prophet. Unfortunately, I often get the part. We gave the citizens of Bania 10 years of age anyway. While government representatives claim that we have not requested an extension of the deadline, it is obvious that we have, and so far 24 European countries have received support of more than 5.5 billion euros and there has been no extension of the deadlines. I don't know what reason you really think colleagues and colleagues are after 2 years. And only a few percent of the funds spent won't be needed to extend the deadlines. To raise awareness of also one fact, which is that only buildings with public purpose, so schools, hospitals and so on, and this fund is used to compensate for the extraordinary costs of caring for damages and people after a natural disaster, which actually leads us to the fact that this is an even more catastrophic data in light of this because if the state cannot agree with itself how it will restore buildings, what do you think it will look like when private objects are involved. When we talk about energy, concrete fuel, fuel or gasoline, fuel is not cheap anywhere in Europe. However, more than the price itself should pay attention to the proportion of the average wages and fuel prices at which Croatians are among the most affected in the Union. Some daily newspapers recently also brought a comparative review primarily of live foods in certain EU member states and their comparison with Croatia. We haven’t had a great time there either if you keep in mind that at least so far we have produced very many and our own products, or we’ve had organic products at our disposal. But we return to the abyss, a gas pardon that is currently on average cheaper for 15 cents in Austria while about one kuna, where the average net salary in the country is three times the average salary in Croatia, so it is more expensive in Croatia. In Slovenia, petrol for kuna is cheaper, with the average salary in Slovenia higher by 50% than in Croatia. The price of fuel in Denmark is 2 kunas higher for gasoline, and is about 75 limes for diesel, but the net wage there is 4 times higher than in Croatia. Here these days we're mostly hearing that when it comes to energy like gas we're following the situation, we're considering a possible reduction in VAT, how our LNG terminal is full, how we can differentiate that, how we can get gas from other sources. However, the question continues to affect the price, whether the price will remain the same or if we have gas, so if we get it from other sources, will it mean that the price for consumers will primarily be less than or equal to the household price. What they can absolutely agree on with the government and the Prime Minister is an active policy towards EU enlargement with a focus on the Western Balkan countries. I would like to point out once again that during the Croatian Presidency, where I had the honour of participating at least in the parliamentary section in focus, it has returned enlargement and the Western Balkans region and has returned the Slovenian presidency again, and I believe that also French, which is ambitious in many ways, is thinking about it or we have had opportunities for colleagues in Paris, my colleague Pavić and I in Paris to hear something about it, or that a summit is also planned at the summit with the Western Balkan countries that should give answers to certain questions. The importance and credibility of the EU in relation to the region is much more inclusive through the continuation of the enlargement process, the confirmation of a clear perspective of membership and the opening of negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. I, as president of the Committee on European Affairs, have applied in every way for a continuation of a positive policy towards the Western Balkan countries so that these countries do not lose any hope. The purpose of the EU must be to expand otherwise... The European project has no future. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84178	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84179	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The European Council is said to be leading the EU's foreign policy as a common president. The significant role of the European Council also consists in harmonising the interests and views of the Member States and resolving their possible disagreements. Because of that function, the European Council is often referred to as the driver of European integration. However, decisions taken by the European Council are not legally binding, they are taken in the form of guidelines and statements and are in principle taken by consensus. Guidelines set priorities for EU governance and its common policies, while statements express the views of Heads of State or Government on a specific issue. And that is why we worry about the fact that our government is blindly following the views we read about in this report that we are discussing. I'm going to talk about the part about the covid crisis right now. It is not so when we talk about the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia or the social rights of our citizens. Namely, in the pandemic debate, Covid-19's leaders referred to the measures implemented, showing clear and strong support for joint and coordinated action. As regards the vaccine, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, regularly reported at meetings on the number of indicators concerning the production, approval of the supply and distribution of the vaccine. Obey leaders of the Member States stressed the need to speed up the vaccination approval process, and thus the need for faster production and delivery of agreed doses of vaccines. They also insisted on greater predictability of delivery and stressed the need for manufacturers to comply with their contractual obligations. The challenge of new variants of the virus has created a great deal of concern between Member States and their representatives in the European Council, and it is important to increase the capacity to sequence virus genomes. The President of the European Commission has pledged to increase the capacity of vaccine production, clarify plans related to the development of vaccines adapted to the use of new variants of the virus. In the context of global solidarity at meetings of the European Council, commitment has been confirmed to sharing vaccines with third countries in need of assistance, but also to the dilemma in terms of difficulties in ensuring vaccines for EU citizens. Despite the European Council's conclusion that the importance of a strong, resilient and fully functional single market has been highlighted and strict implementation and enforcement of the Single Market rules, as well as the importance of digital transformation for European recovery, it is a question of why our prime minister does not insist on the situation in the Republic of Croatia as strongly as he has worked so hard on vaccination and control when we talk about the Covid-19 pandemic. Furthermore, the report states that in this context the European Council recalled its conclusions of October and December 2020 in view of the European Council's social summit in Port, the European Council concluded that in its efforts to achieve a successful digital transition, no one should be neglected. This requires the necessary tools and infrastructure, as well as skills development, improvement and retraining while ensuring fair working conditions and high standards in the digital economy. The European Council supported the policy priorities of the annual sustainable growth strategy and invited Member States to take them into account and adopt them to NGOs. Despite the ongoing debate on the European social model and the implementation of the European pillar of social rights with an emphasis on recovery, education, skills, job creation and improvement of their quality, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, adopted and in the declaration of a European pillar of social rights with three thematic units, equal opportunities and equal access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion, and we have to recognise that in Croatia we are quite lagging behind in all these fields. What is interesting is that we can move forward and, unfortunately, conclude what is happening in Croatia, almost nothing, nothing or backward. Let me just set a few examples. I wonder if in Croatia they are ruling that here tomorrow on the agenda in the assembly a proposal to amend and supplement the social care law package that contains many shortcomings and illogicalities. Here are just some, although the whole package of laws is well-formulated and has passed the first reading of part of the Household Act already before the application itself raises the question of the existence of foster care as a social service. The law prescribes the age of foster parents up to 60 years, and if the working life of the Labour Act increases to 65 years and 67 years respectively, so a large number of foster parents will spend five years in suspense to regain pension rights and on any basis. The final illogicality is the promise of Minister Aladrovic to increase supplies from 1 January of this year for social care users located in institutions and in foster homes, however, this part of the promise was fulfilled only by institutions of social care, accommodation and 5,100 kuna per user, while the foster parents remained at a level of 1,800 to 2,400 kuna, depending on the category they belong to. The Minister's decision to increase the supply of certain social care users dramatically while those in foster care remain at the previous level is nothing more than a bitter slap on foster families who are the future and institutionalisation of the old and powerless as well as children without the necessary parental care. But, well, maybe for a moment, and I went off topic, so I just wanted to remind you of how relaxed we are accessing some extremely important things, and of course I'm going to talk about it tomorrow when we're going to talk about this whole package of social laws. However, we have to add to this very current topic that there are more than 800,000 pensioners living below the poverty line in Croatia. Finally, I have to ask the prime minister who is very informally and at the expense of taxpayers sitting in part of the European Council's social affairs meetings so I can ask him, is he aware of the fact that Croats under his government are becoming more and more poorer and more distant from other socially-restrained citizens living in other EU member states? Well, I wish I could ask him that myself, but I believe he might answer through some channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84180	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84181	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. I am pleased that, on behalf of the Cube of the HDZ, they can state their position and this point of view on the reports of the European Council. I find it scandalous that from the opposition, here I see colleagues Glavasevic, Vucilović and fellow Milanović Litre that there is no opposition, and when we look at what we discussed today, it was essentially not European topics. Mr. Grbin is aware that he will never sit in the European Council, so he doesn't care, the good part of his debate wasn't about it. A fellow Dretar reads after nine years of membership as the powers of the European Council, Most would go into isolationism, the Bridge would isolate us within the EU and lift the maximum influence that the government and the prime minister have, the sovereigns do not want the euro although most citizens want and all polls show that support for the introduction of the euro is growing. And what does the HDZ government do, what does Andrej Plenkovic do? These reports show that we are taking the positions of this modern sovereignty. And what is he? It is not isolationism, so we do not want to isolate Croatia in the European Council, we want to have maximum influence and we want to have as much impact as we have on all processes, how much we protect our own interests in Brussels, how much we ensure the resources and growth of the economy within EU and NATO membership, how well we are safe, how much we are protected, how much we are able to buy and have a new strategic partnership with France around Rafael. If the government had been able to defend both the prime minister's views and interests of Croatia enough to say how we acted and covid the crisis, it is enough to say 25 billion European funds that we have provided for the development of the next 10 years that give significant wind in the back of Croatia's development. We also see that last year we managed to have one among the three highest GDP growths and that, unlike the 2008 crisis, in just a year and a half, we had come out of the crisis, while last year we had been out of the crisis for 10 years, that with 12.5 billion kuna, we saved 700,000 jobs for most European funds, that we had secured and protected Croatia's sky and territory with the new strategic partnership with France, but also wider as part of NATO, that we were entering the Eurozone or entering the Eurozone that would happen next year, as the prime minister pointed out that we would pay the euro, that we had received support from credit institutions, that we had received the trust that we had in international circles, that despite the crisis we had grown credit rating. And as this is transmitted to citizens if you ask, colleague Peovic said so, so that both average and minimum salaries and pensions are growing. Is that enough? Of course not, we want it to be more, but when we look at other countries that have been entering the EU for 10 years, we have lagging behind in using eu funds. The topics dominated by course were the covid crisis where Croatia and in time provided the vaccines, where we prepared the season, where we were also among the first to support the use of covid certificates that have no drama, I don't see where drama is, and the covid certificates allowed millions of tourists to come last summer and that we have practically the most successful season in the Mediterranean. In Porto... the summit discussed employment and social rights, it will cover especially in individual and individual debates. It was also a major issue of energy prices, where the prime minister himself said, Mr. Grbin obviously did not listen well or did not listen when the prime minister said the government had several instruments, primarily to protect 64,000 of those weakest citizens who already have a 200 kuna bonus that might increase, that it would also allow the majority of the expenditure on citizens to fall on companies or on HEP. He also announced a tax package that would allow price stabilisation where the government had already been able to regulate the price of gasoline by regulation. It's not clear to me that so much Mr. coat of arms a disasterer has feared nuclear energy. For I really don't know, perhaps by throwing out Mr Bernardić physicists and all that knowledge SDP had about it went from SDP, but Croatia is co-owner of NE Krško and why Croatia would not be part of the initiative to recognise nuclear energy as green energy and that the part we have and participate in Krško is counted as the use of green energy. And we also give support if and how the balance of energy will be achieved to achieve the very ambitious objectives Europe has set, which is to reduce CO2 by 55% to 2030, i.e. become the first continent that is neutral to CO2 emissions. So, in addition to predicting 400,000 fewer jobs in this crisis, on duty now also tries to create anxiety among citizens and around nuclear energy that is not there where the government has once again supported them to support themselves as green energy in taxonomy or in the classification of nuclear energy and its participation in the contribution to CO2 reduction is worth it. The big question was enlargement and there was a lot of debate, how much Croatia protects the interests of Croats in BiH, if someone did so, you and the prime minister and everyone else in the government, and exactly if there is a reform of the electoral law, it will come about Croatia's engagement and the engagement of this government. So that also calling for some high treason or that we want to harm the Croatian interest absolutely does not stand. These are the isolationist wishes for Croatia to be isolated within the Union, but to see that government how many billions of euros would lose, how much would Croatia isolate, how many foreign countries would warn themselves not to go to Croatia for anti-vaxing and vaccines, how much less tourists would have, how badly they would live. It's easy out of opposition, but I believe the citizens will know and assess it as they have so far. The important topic was the entry into the Eurozone, the prime minister presented the law on the euro two days ago, a package of 40 laws and 70 sublegal acts will come to us here. I would remind you that just in July 2020, because we entered the European Course Mechanism 2, we received support from the European Central Bank and 2 billion euros in swap credit. This allowed Croatia then 2020 to provide 4,000 kuna support for job protection. At the same time, credit agencies have made it very clear that just entering the 2 course mechanism is a stabilisation factor and that they are still raising our credit rating. The inflation effect felt by the last countries was 0.2-0.4%, and much more felt the increase in salaries and standards of citizens. There is no country that has entered the Eurozone without significantly increasing the standard of citizens and we also expect from our entry into the European zone. I was pleased, my colleague from Mosta doesn't even know what COSAC is, at a recent conference where Minister Clement Beaune speaks clearly about the French Presidency and their reform of Schengen, where we received strong support and Croatia. I co-ordinated with both the MVEP and the MUP and supported the French desire for reform of Schengen, but what we can say in total is that Croatia is present, equal, sitting at the table, we know very well about our interests and that we knew it last year, and the HDZ club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84182	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Pavić was injured by an article. 238. Croatia, meaning Croats and Croats believe 71% increase in inflation, increase prices when they enter the Eurozone, and only 23% want to enter as soon as possible. So your, I don't know where you get the information, these are from a barometer, EUROBAROMETRA, we should maybe check it out better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84184	You know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. Marko Pavić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84185	Thank you very much. A colleague, Milanović litre, was injured by an art. In 238, therefore, it is the wrong data that was conducted by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Dombrovskis, showed that in July 2021 compared to July 2020, 6 percentage points or higher support came out. And if you did not have the support of the people, then you had not gathered the signatures, if you had gathered them together, then you would have gathered the signatures, and this is not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84186	Okay, here's the same warning, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84187	Thank you very much. A fellow Pavić was injured by an officer. 238. Croatia is probably the only country with 200,000 inhabitants under the age of 18, so there are 3 million 880 thousand of us, and the voters watch out for 3 million 670 thousand. That's the information that I find fantastic. You're a physicist and a mathematician, a colleague of yours is probably clear to you, not to me, so maybe we've collected enough signatures, but your voter register isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84188	And a warning to you because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Prime Minister Plenkovic came to the political scene with the reputation of someone who understands foreign and European politics and who has a significant influence in both the European Parliament and the halls... and within the European People's Party. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this debate, I certainly will not question his knowledge or the obvious passion for these subjects, but I believe we must speak and assess his success and influence. Here are a few things the prime minister considers to be successes and evidence of influence. The appointment of former Minister Pejcinović Buric as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the appointment of Dubravka Shuice as Vice-President of the European Commission, the funds approved by Croatia to recover from the economic consequences of the crisis and earthquake corona, Croatia's EU presidency in particular in the context of enlargement, assistance to BiH and Croats in BiH, entry into Schengen. This isn't a comprehensive list, this is just a few things. To paraphrasise Index Ilko Cimic properly in the debate on HDZ Prime Minister, let's take the stage. About Marija Pejcinović Burić after her election as Secretary General of the Council of Europe, we can only say one thing.../The speaker speaks in English/... What exactly did Croatia get with it at the head of the Council of Europe? Nothing at all. What did Plenkovic get? Probably nothing at all. What did the Council of Europe get? A obedient apolitical bureaucrat who perfectly corresponds to this time of a politic and bureaucratic multilateralism in Europe. Who wants some congrats? Dubravka Shuica is the vice president of the European Commission, one of 8 with a dubious.../The speaker speaks in English/...the work of democracy and demography. There's no shica under there. and some other commissioners do not agree with her. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] About democracy so far, she hasn't said much about anything, nor about demographics. I haven't heard from her about Poland or Hungary about the rule of law and democracy, say, I haven't heard anything that she said about the trends of emigration, or the population list, it may have been recently, but I guess I missed it in the woods of other things, and it's not that there's anything to say about these topics. So the Alkar Plenki into nothing. As far as the big money we got was already said a lot, and in fact the main reason why we were even given lies in the fact that Croatia is underdeveloped and poor, which is why we got that money, not because the Prime Minister is some kind of Henry Kissinger in lamb fur, but that money he put into our hands, let's say, Gabrieli Zalac and the like, but that's another topic, we can't get into it here. The chairmanship of the Union and enlargement today is only a memory, and the results of the enlargement effort are such that Macedonia continues to have a shameful blockade of negotiations, Serbia is not doing steps in adopting the EU's legal gains and values but adopting laws that go in the opposite direction and evoking the 1990s. Kosovo and Albania are also groping in place, and Montenegro is taking steps backwards. So it is certainly not Plenkovic's fault, but it testifies to the irrelevantness of the enlargement effort during our presidency. About BiH and Croats in BiH today, we have heard that there is no understanding in the EU of any major interest in Plenkovic's positions and in the positions of our government, so again the deadlock. We will see what will happen at this debate at one of the next meetings of the European Council if this topic comes to the agenda at all. At the end of the Schengen. A colleague, Grbin, reminded that Romania and Bulgaria have come to a phase in 2011 that we are now and have not moved since then. We are not going to be dealing with predicting the future, but the prime minister was also very careful today in assessing the date for entry into Schengen. In the European Parliament, there is a debate on this, and you can be sure there will be no debate of order. On more important issues, the prime minister and ministers were not clear or loud, we see it from documents, or from the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, or on development cooperation with Russia and greater support for civil society there, or on a common European response to gas and inflation. So the council was very generally involved in this, and a strong and unanimous response is needed. It's not because I remind you that we live in a time of bureaucratic and apolitical multilateralism. This commission is one of the better evidence, the sadder, but the better unfortunately in favour of this thesis. He had to talk about migration quite softly because, you know, it's a shame to apologize for the footage of violence against migrants at our border. That would be just incredible. Instead, what Plenkovic and his ministers were most concerned about and what they worked on most was the construction of bribes about their success. Only people aren't stupid, and they don't think the glass is half empty, but as Borna Sor summed it up, and they know that HDZ stole their glass, so they're leaving, and all the demographic measures aren't gonna bring them back because it's not about the money, it's not about how much money you're gonna give people in the hope that for $150,000 someone's gonna think they're better off from one Ireland, for example. to return to Croatia, but to a functioning and orderly state, which HDZ and Plenkovic simply do not know how to work and do not know how to build such a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84190	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84191	Let's not make any mistakes here, so stop beating some rhetoric towards HDZ, here's one peaceable this way thesis and a suggestion. Namely, when the opposition attacks HDZ with arguments that attack HDZ then it is quite clear, especially for those who have participated once in power to do everything in the same way as HDZ, especially when we are talking about the reason for the fall means this, these statistics, or those painful statistics we had, mean that we have 400,000 people less. So, above all, there was a policy in the field of labour law, and a policy in the field of labour law since 2014. Milanovic's Labour Act has brought us in for 10 years. We stand in this unpopular place in the first place of the preeminent Labour Contracts. People who are overworked, people who don't have a permanent job means they're paid both one way and the other, who don't know what's going to happen tomorrow with their jobs can't get their own place, they can't have a family, they can't plan their future, and these people are going out. Doesn't mean that HDZ did something good and that we should praise it, and let's be honest, let's be honest, in those criticisms, means who's to blame? It's really the whole structure that we've adapted to, which we've agreed to, and those who come new would do the same thing, unfortunately most of the 99% of the opposition, and we're spinning in a bad endless future and it's not going to get any better. I therefore need to say something about this report on a symptomatic moment in this report, and it concerns that our prime minister participated in a panel called "employment and jobs" where he expressed his support for EU instruments and policies aimed at strengthening the labour market, protecting and creating jobs. The following day, he stated that he participated in a meeting of the leaders on social issues where the debate on the European social model and the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights was held. Now watch out, so the European Pillar of Social Rights refers to decent working conditions, decent pay, social protection, the abolition of agency work that has been marked as an extremely exploiting form of work. When we are talking about the European pillar of social rights, the man would say that Plenkovic would probably agree with all these proposals means that they are going towards the protection of workers, but be careful in all other issues of Plenkovic and his government are really helpful, this one may even agree with some assessments, follow all the recommendations and all the directives and obey everything, and there are no autonomous policies, any sovereignism, none of that, but when the issue of labour and labour, there is even Plenkovic very brave and opposes some directives, so we too have had a view of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and the Council on appropriate minimum salaries in the EU that the government adopted in December 2020, otherwise the objectives and the proposed directives were once again meant as this pillar of social rights in this sense, meaning improving working conditions, ensuring that all workers in the Union have access to the minimum wage in the form of a minimum wage in the form of the prescribed minimum pay, or that they should be able to work where they can be able to work properly. Our meaning the objective of this directive was specifically meant very precise. First, that states, two things, means that Member States legally prescribed minimum salaries provide minimum wages at an appropriate level according to the benchmarks common at international level and another thing means that in all Member States, the rate of coverage for collective negotiations is at least 70%. You won't believe the very harsh response of our government, the attitude of our government is the principle of let's say positive, but in fact he was reluctantly positive in all these key issues here, minimum wages and coverage of collective negotiations. In fact, the government responded in its position that increasing the standards of networking by collective agreements by 70% says I quote nothing justified and too high an ideal, and that workers in terms of union association must be quoted as saying that trade unions do not join because it is the same principle of freedom of association in trade unions. First of all, we need to know that the view on the rate of coverage of collective negotiations is at least 70% in this form is particularly unacceptable, given that it is a coverage rate that is lower than the coverage rate in the most developed countries. Let's say Austria with which we like to compare has over 90%, the Netherlands over 70%, etc., but even more importantly, Croatia has fallen rapidly means the rate of networking with collective agreements and the last 20 years by as much as 19%, so we are at an extremely low rate covered by collective negotiations of only 45%, meaning collective negotiations provide workers with better labour rights. So such a worrying attitude expressed in that position is this, that the coverage of collective agreements, among other things, depends on the will of workers, I quote, for association in unions, and the basic principle of freedom of association includes the right of workers not to join in the union, the end of the quote. So to interpret that the right of workers to join unions is considered a choice, it is at your level to warn slaves in slave-owned social relations that they can also choose not to be free, is that, because freedom is something that is supposed to be chosen, means freedom of workers' associations in unions and freedom of labour union rights is not something you choose, so it's simply something that's been chosen by a centuries-old labour and trade union struggle and now I'm back to square one. I am interested and should ask the prime minister if, in all other matters, he is quite serviceable and heeding the EU there, at these meetings and presented this position to Croatia. I mean, I'm afraid the answer is not, and I don't know what would have happened if he had answered something at those meetings because our, our influence in the EU is flat zero. But that is why it is important, colleagues and colleagues, that every time the prime minister starts with that opening address he started here and today, which is more or less, so I can say, and it has nothing to do with the subject, or the report on the EU Council meetings held, because I highly doubt that at these meetings he was talking about the high growth rate and the good fight against the pandemic and the good social rights that he was talking about here today, but it is important to oppose it. So when he said today that we had a record growth of 16% in the 2nd and 3rd quarter of last year, then he forgot to say that last year we had one of the lowest growths or 8%, while others had the most significant 4-5% decline, which is understandable given the pandemic, but our decline was rapid, so he says we have a rapid rise, then we can say that this rise, of course, is large, given where we were, on which low scale. So, we have one of the lowest GDP growth per capita in the EU since 2020, with only lower growth in Bulgaria and Greece, Croatia's GDP per capital since 2011-'20. Only 1182 euros increased, for example, the comparison, Hungary grew 3576 euros, Romania's 4529 euros, Slovenia's 4741 euros, Slovakia's 3770 euros. So, practically, everything is comparable, let's say, countries have at least twice as much growth as we do and growth has been our double slower, we're totally lagging behind, so in GDP growth, and we're getting a prime minister here and we're talking about a rapid big growth. Then he boasts that we had a fight against Covid, Croatia is 8, Croatia is the 5th worst country in the world for the mortality of millions of people, social benefits, Croatia is the worst, so 8th place in the EU according to the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. He says, we saved 700 thousand jobs, we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, for the first time we have a situation that generations who come will live much worse than their own parents, so by the number of inhabitants we came to in 1948.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84192	Following individual debates, Vesna Vucilović, the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84193	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I see that this wave of sovereignty is spreading in this assembly, even where we would not hope from this previous exhibition, here, fellow Peovic, last Friday's GDP per capita has grown in one day 1700 euros per capita, you see, and miracles happen sometimes, but only to those who do not follow the situation and only those who do not follow the data and estimates published by the State Statistics Office. As far as the reports are concerned today, a number of topics have been processed, but one topic is always present, it's an epidemic of the coronary virus. There is only no topic in Croatia which is the topic of all topics, and this is demographics and this demographic flood that has only confirmed the preliminary report of the DZS. Demographers have been warning us for years, there's no hearing, people are leaving us not only because they're financial, material reasons, but also they want to live in an orderly country where party similarities won't be a prerequisite for work but they'll appreciate knowledge and expertise and that's a fact. This is confirmed by a number of analyses and a number of research. But I want to look back a little bit on what other colleagues have already spoken about, and that is this European pillar of social rights that has also been the subject of one of the meetings and this pillar of European social rights is based precisely on equal opportunities and equal market, access to the labour market. What it looks like in Croatia is best known by people who have appeared in competitions for some state service, work, in any of the institutions, and often with the competition there is only a photo missing. This is our reality, unfortunately, and people don't answer because they simply don't have the confidence to choose the candidate who has the best qualifications and the one who's the most professional because it's always the question of all the questions whether it's ours and it's so independent of which party is in power. It's our sad reality. You could say that the principle is the same, and everything else is nuances. The social picture of Croatia is truly devastating and the number of people at risk of poverty is growing from year to year, particularly expressed in those over 65. All countries that have joined the EU have rapidly reduced poverty in this particular category except Croatia, currently at 31%. I'll tell you that in Slovenia, it's, say, 19.4, Slovakia 9.5% and so it's not exactly the same in countries that are transition states as Croatia. The most endangered are just those who live in small towns and rural areas, so where I come from, my citizens and the fact is that here is when the meeting was just the topic of the European Pillar of Social Rights, then Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic welcomed the fact that the leaders met live and not saw the connection, and that's what it says in that document that we are discussing today because apparently the Prime Minister himself is aware that there is really nothing to boast about, and then he welcomed the fact that the meeting is live because the only thing he has left is nothing else. Also in October was the topic of energy prices, so Prime Minister Plenkovic urged Member States to provide short-term support to the most vulnerable consumers and company protection, and what is done here, we will see, monitor, we will look, we will consider, etc., nothing concrete. The states are introducing a zero VAT rate, where we, we don't know, we'll see, we'll report. Look at what Poland is doing, what some other countries are doing, where we are, we are not. And here I am, finally I don't have time anymore just to say that I can't take away the impression that this government is like that Roman god Janus who has one face for European institutions and the other one here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84194	We have two replicas, the first respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84195	Here it is, my colleague Vucilović you started your presentation surprised by the sovereignism on the left, so here I will use a few minutes or minutes as far as I have to direct you to the left for a long time to actually see the senselessness of sovereignty on the right. Why? Because nationalism, which is dominant on the right, is completely ignored by the unequal development which is the basis for our deprivation in relation to the centre of Europe, the right hand most often does not recognise or understand. So we're not economically deprived because someone is mean to us or I don't know there are some conspiracies and secret forces that are against us but really means the wealth of Europe's centre is connected to poverty on the periphery of Europe and in order for us to actually be poor they have to be rich and vice versa, so things are like the type of vessels connected and our government really, they can agree there, agree to this race towards the bottom and our position on the periphery because more than that and they don't see it, that's, that's their horizon and the framework of expectations that's quite good for them, they just agree that we're going to go to a low labour force service and to end our industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84196	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84197	Thank you, dear colleague Peovic, for your comment, I would say the clarification was not as much a question as this clarification of your vision. I'm just gonna repeat that I'm glad that this virus of sovereignty is spreading and I'm glad that others are looking at it, certain situations, appear and move that way. I must also point out that I am not one of those who thinks that some topics are exclusively for the left or for the right, is always seen for example. that environmental protection is something that deals with someone from the left political spectrum, and I don't think it can be the exclusive right of any political option because it simply as well as the protection of Croatian national interests should be something that should represent all policy options.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84198	Next replica, respected representative Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84199	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Vucimilovic, you asked Minister Marić this morning about the measures they are planning to take about this crisis that has found us all over the world, and so is Croatia. We are, as always, the most affected by our economy and the structure of the economy in which it is structured. We have examples of Poland that will cut virtually taxes on electricity, gas, heating, and even some things that will help farmers to work as easily as possible, making it easier to overcome this major crisis. As far as we know, they didn't even have a crisis, they didn't even get into the crisis that we were hit by, which we didn't even get out of, and we already got into this next one, so here you as an economist might be able to comment on this one a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84200	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84201	Thank you very much, dear colleague Milanović litre. I've been warning inflation since last year, and everyone told me I'm exaggerating, I'm panicking, I'm blowing things up, but that inflation's going up. We now see data in the 12th month and not only in our country but also in the EU, prices are also rising at two-digit rates and responsible governments are really doing everything to help their citizens. My question today was in this direction because I think I can no longer stand the citizens because wages do not follow this price increase and this government as a responsible government has to do something, and there are opportunities coming, so I can't say that the European Union doesn't give us, we can't, etc. So there is a possibility and not just zero VAT rates, but also reduced, or 0 to 5%, and I think it's high time our Minister of Finance and this government did something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84202	Time. There's an individual debate coming up. Dear Representative Karolina Vidovic-Kristo. She's on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84203	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this report is as useless and useless as the useless and barren politics of this government. It really reminds how business expressions show, but also after the prime minister's appearance on committee reports from the 1980s, which were known to have been murderous and absolutely uninformed. The goal then and now was to create the impression that political leadership was doing something, that it was trying to do something good for its people. Unfortunately, that's a lie. Our government does not work for Croatian citizens, nor for the Croatian state. Our government is working for the ruling structure, and against the interest of the ordinary Croatian man. Because this government is working openly against the EU Treaty and against the fundamental values of the EU. Plenkovic's government violates the principle of rule of law. It directly blocks and manages the operation of the DORH. It is precisely that influence that is the cause of social injustice and corruption. This is evidenced by the European Commission's report testing Croatia's worst judiciary and the weakest wage power since Bulgaria. Cases such as Borg, Krš Padjene, Croatia Insurance, Uljannik or Zagreb's advent prove that DORH protects crime because in these cases evidence is publicly available but the attorney's office does nothing. We've all seen on the Minister Grief's case that the crime that's obvious DORH doesn't see. But when the case was considered by the European Prosecutor's Office, they immediately concluded that the case was an open thief. And we can think of how DORH works in other cases. He acts protective of corruption. To be perfectly clear, the DORH observes the theft of money and property of Croatian citizens and does nothing. We've all seen on the case of the former Austrian Chancellor how the State's Attorney's Office should behave. It must be independent and must treat each person independently of their position or property. It is the independent judiciary that is the fundamental European value and the prerequisite for social justice and the good life of all citizens. This fundamental value of the Croatian Government systematically violates or perhaps better said the Government deletes the floor with a judiciary completely instrumentalising in favour of the ruling usurper. Because if Croatia had an independent judiciary, Croatia would have a 50% higher gross domestic product. Our citizens would have twice as much income and Croatians would return to Croatia, not to be forced to leave their beautiful homeland. And how incompetent and mixed this government is is also the next amazing fact. In the EU Council, the government formally proposed certain safeguard provisions that should protect the rights of Croats in BiH. Conclusions were adopted at the Council session, but Croatia's proposals were not adopted. So Croatia proposed something and then de facto voted against its own proposals. Because if the Croatian representative had only raised his hand, these conclusions would not have been made, because the decision-making system was prescribed in that body. This is evidence of incompetence, as well as the humiliation of the Croatian state by the Croatian government itself. Something to suggest and then not represent it is just humiliation. When you act like this, no one will respect you or respect you. When we add to this that we have money from the EU in our account, yet we have not restored any houses in Zagreb, nor in Banovina, then it is necessary to clearly and principally tell the government which is chaired by Andrej Plenkovic is the most incompetent government in the EU and the main culprit for the crisis in Croatia. You who today support this government, and you yourself are aware that what I am saying is well founded and, in fact, you will soon be ashamed of the very support and support that you have given to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84204	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84205	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague and colleague, I'd like to point out a few more personal observations and what's going on with my work in the Assembly or an interest I may not have had the opportunity to mention earlier. First of all, allow me once again and in my personal name to praise the practice of discussing meetings of the European Council in this House more often, because this is an opportunity to open many topics of some that are tied up, some that are unrelated, some that we can influence, some that we can't. I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, but anyone who knows what decision-making mechanisms are in the EU knows that when someone proposes something, voting is something else. But, well, that's not what we're gonna do. That doesn't matter now. We can educate the public by some other means, but what is important is that we open these topics here in the Croatian Parliament, inform the representatives, then the interested public, and that we can then give ourselves some observations on the views the Government takes and the way it behaves in the Union, in this case in the EU Council. A few topics I would like to touch, of course pandemic is something that we cannot avoid and pandemic is something that will definitely dominate another time of European Council meetings, hopefully not for much longer. However, with the purchase of sufficient amounts of vaccines with a more or more coordinated common response, I think that pandemics, i.e. I really hope we can win the team more than the pandemic has pointed out exactly the many gaps that we still have in response to crisis situations, which, by the rule of subsidiarity, are actually in the jurisdiction of the Member States, so I hope that this pandemic will, in fact, also in the council, condition more discussions on this common answers to some issues that may be in the jurisdiction of the Member States more co-ordinated and harmonize so as not to happen to us or the beginning of the pandemic of vaccine shortages, closing borders, disturbances in the supply chain etc. The other thing is absolutely energy. So Europe is dependent on energy, most Member States are importing the energy they need, but also something the crisis has shown and what may most possibly have been evident in the last year, which is the lack of chips. If we are talking about digitisation, if we are talking about a Europe that needs to invest maximum in the digital transition, which is also the goal of the EU and the President van der Leyen Commission, then the EU must be as self-sufficient as it is or as self-sufficient as it can be. I am glad that the European Commission has recognised this, but the Member States in this case too need to work harder on this. The other two topics that we cannot avoid are certainly the region and, in my opinion, the Eastern Partnership. So, the region is something in which Croatia has a strong interest in stabilisation, due to measures, because of its economic interests, but also because of Croats living in the region above all in BiH where we are still one of the constituent peoples. The entry of the region as soon as possible must be our strategic goal, and I am glad that the government and the Prime Minister keep saying it over and over again at Council of Europe meetings that this topic is not being sealed or targeted under the rug, but that it is constantly on the table. And because of the region, but I also say because of Croatia whose national interest a pair of excellent should be. The Eastern Partnership is also a topic that has not dominated so much with this debate but no less important team when we talk, and there have been speeches here today about Ukraine and Belarus, about instability at the eastern borders. The Eastern Partnership is something that we must not ignore and what we would like to have an answer to, we have already discussed and discussed what our position on further enlargement of the Union would be. We understand what the atmosphere in the Union is about enlargement itself, but we as the newest member and at least I personally who am a great advocate of enlargement must bear in mind that both Ukraine and Georgia and Moldova, or Moldova, who have so far expressed ambition to hand over eventually membership requests really belong to a cult of cultural, economic, geographical, good on Georgia, we can already talk geographically but fall within the European circle and in fact every reform, every reform shift, every receipt of some of our common values should be appreciated and supported and encouraged. For example, primarily Southeast Europe. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84206	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, before us is an annual report, as previously said, according to the Law on Relations between the Government and the Croatian Parliament, but as my colleague Hajdukovic mentioned before me, the fact is that this government, or the Prime Minister, introduced the practice that after each council or when two or three councils came to the assembly and often discussed it. In 2021, geopoliticalally it was very demanding and this is seen from the content and this report on the European Council meetings. Security issues were almost on every council present and I'll concentrate on it a little more. In fact, the fact is that we live in a world that is rapidly changing, a new order is being organised, and it's being quite organized around a global antagonism between America and China, so it's kind of a new bipolar world. So it's not Europe anymore, so if you want the geopolitical center of the world. Today 60% of GDP is produced in the indopacifika 2/5 of the population lives in the region, but Europe of course feels the consequences of this new order and this is seen in some new attempt at a new balance of power. In Europe, it is also seen in this escalation of tensions between the West and the Russian Federation. That's what we said to the current man. Croatia thinks it did well to continue with this channel of dialogue, which was also the minister in Moscow, but that it entered the dialogue with its natural views as members of the EU and NATO. So when we talk about the EU and this was present on the European Councils, therefore, the idea of building a strategic autonomy, but not strategic autonomy that would be contrary to America or some distance from the United States, rather than an alliance with America. So it's this Western actually alliance as one geopolitical concept. In this context of the new world that is being created, of course, Croatia is extremely important, not only as a government priority, but indeed as a state priority not to remain on some periphery of this new arrangement on the European continent but rather to get as close as possible to the European core. And in this context, we should also look at this geopolitical context in my conviction to support entry into both the euro zone and the Schengen area. So they have, of course, their importance in terms of economic terms, of course, of all other dimensions of these integrations, but they also have this little deeper geopolitical significance. In that context, in order not to be naturally condemned to a periphery, then it is not in our best interest to be the ones who keep a long line in the long term. So it's just that being borderliners in history hasn't brought us any luck, and in this context we have to look at the idea of europeanization of our neighborhood and enlargement policy. This enlargement will not happen overnight, there is no consensus within the EU at this time that there will be a rapid enlargement in terms of the integration of states and state structures into the EU. As much as it may be declassified to say this should block this. What would be blocked if, at the moment, it's actually not expected that such a kind of expansion would happen over the night. What I think is real and what Croatia supports and can continue to do on this trail, as it was during the Zagreb Summit during the 2020 Presidency, which is to create a consensus that this enlargement process is not shut down, that it continues, may be modified, but that enlargement continues to be focused on societies, so that to the greatest extent possible the societies of these countries so-called. We integrate the Western Balkans through four fundamental freedoms. In this way, this space is expanding, and we are safer, and then this idea of the periphery is moving away from us to the east, and that way we provide our geopolitical interests. Here, I think so much that this report should be welcomed and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commitment to keeping Croatia in a new arrangement at the EU core.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84208	We have several replicas, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84209	Thank you very much. My colleague Stier absolutely agrees with your last argument and the last part of your exposé. In such a case, we must keep a clear European alternative or a European perspective for the countries of the region, if we do not, then you have these little Schengens and so on. which absolutely draws those countries away from Europe. But your discussion moved me to something else, you talked about Europe or the Union as such and its future, I failed to mention that there is still a conference on the future of Europe where our citizens are invited to say what they think about the future of Europe and what they expect from Europe in the future. So I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and invite them to engage through a multilingual digital platform to talk about what their expectations are, which Parliament and the Commission and the Council are obliged to take into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84210	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84211	Thank you very much, fellow Highdukovic. A new European Parliament President Robert Metsol has been elected, which in its first messages was the very future of Europe, i.e. the convergence and European policies of citizens. And I think that in this context not only the European Parliament, but we, too, as representatives of HS, here you are as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, and all of us who deal with these issues and have the task of bringing these topics closer to the Croatian citizens. I think this kind of debate is exactly serving that purpose and of course your call is not only legitimate but I think it is also an opportun, it is useful that as many of our Croatian citizens get involved in this debate about the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84212	Followed by a replica of the respected advocates Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84213	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Stier, speaking of the perspective and future of Europe, we can conclude that Europe is actually fragile, although until recently we could argue that it is economically strong, you have now been through your debate and have questioned this by apostrophe of the much stronger economic forces with which we must lead the race. And what we know is that Europe is still politically weak and has a very small number of even common symbols. And in this sense, if Europe wants to influence the future of the world, and first of all, it must make some different moves, perhaps from those we are used to looking at, and above all I think it must return to the values on which the EU is founded and promoted by its founders. So I'm curious, do you even see the space in this discussion in the discussion of the future of Europe as a space where we can re-open that question of value?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84214	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84215	Yes, I'll mention briefly this first part of your question, so I did mention a world that goes in the direction of some new bipolarism, but of course when we talk about the United States as a global force you see in 1945. The U.S. represented 50% of the world's GDP, but today, of course, it's not like that anymore. So, in order to save if you want the advantage that the US needs today, it needs Europe, because it needs a strong euro to be with the dollar, of course, the part that will continue through the West and through Western co-operation, and here, if you want the first position of leadership in international relations, should be, if you want to, and in certain defence aspects, therefore, Europe needs it. But, of course, this Europe should be such that it will be self-aware and self-aware in this context. So, yes, I absolutely think that's the topic that needs to be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84216	Next replica, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84217	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stier, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. I always enjoy your geostrategic analyses and simply how you change the rest of our paradigms. You've changed this to me, and I think it might be the key to enlargement, to go integrate the citizens, and that the institutions will come because once we integrate the citizens of the institution will follow them. There's a very good example for me you didn't just highlight it, and you pointed it out when we had a conference on Europe's future example of roaming. Why not give an example of the fact that we can telephone within the Union at the prices we pay in Croatia to expand to the entire Western Balkans and I think that this idea and colleague Matsola and the entire IPP have been very well respected, and perhaps another such initiative should be seen now. But it was a very nice example of how to change that paradigm just for example, the roaming stands out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84218	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84219	Thank you, fellow Pavić. So I think Croatia is the most invited to represent such an approach. Why? This is when we talk about romance, in the context of the open Balkans initiative that there is no Roma among countries that would enter such an initiative, but only among them, not with a European single market. However, unless, for example, BiH would also be in such an initiative tomorrow, for example. I wouldn't have a roming if it were called I don't know some other address phone in Montenegro or Serbia, but I should pay if it was called the Republic of Croatia. So we need to integrate the societies and citizens of those countries that are now in the EU candidate process as much as possible before the institutions themselves... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84220	The time, follows, thank you, follows the individual debate of the respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with co-workers, MPs and deputies. It is certainly important to point out at the beginning of this debate on meetings with the European Council that it is important that Croatia is a member of the EU, that it sits at the table at which decisions are taken, that it has influence, that it can address its views, that it can encourage debates, delegate topics that are interesting to us and that it has great success. Many of the topics that dominated these council meetings, perhaps somehow in the shadow of our debates today, remained the topic of migration. What is pointed out in the report seems important here to me to reiterate that our neighbouring Slovenia has also pointed out that, in fact, thanks to the efforts of the Republic of Croatia on the EU's external border, the pressure of illegal migrants on the Slovenian border has been reduced by 40%. So, this information speaks, and I think that the answer to all those who suspect the importance of the Schengen project is how important it is for Croatia to enter Schengen for what it has met all the conditions, but also to help not to remain in that position but also to help our neighbours to meet all the necessary conditions through activities and to have EU enlargement happen both to BiH and to other countries of the former Yugoslavia, and in particular to point out that Macedonia, which I think is precisely us as Croats and our country can have the most understanding for that reason, as it is a state that has been unfairly placed in the waiting room for almost 15 years. I also want to send clear and public support to Macedonia's efforts to finally target their negotiations in one right direction and to allow the citizens of Macedonia the prosperity they deserve. If anyone cares about BiH, their progress not only because the Croats live in BiH but also because BiH is our first neighbour with which we have the longest limit, then Croatia and Croatia have shown it countless times and because of the wonders of the debate that we could listen to here today, which even go in one direction where it is respected that these efforts that Croatia has made to help BiH especially the Croatian people in BiH are not sufficient, they are not satisfactory. I remember the moment in the European Parliament when the current prime minister, who was then a Croatian euro-parliamentary, together with all of us, helped us to initiate our application procedure and to be given a questionnaire. So it's not good here to tell the truth, especially when it's being brought out on purpose. Also, if anyone cares about finding themselves missing, to resolve the issue of the position of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, but also to resolve the issue of the disputed law that I have already spoken of several times, and it is the law that Serbia took over the powers of the small Hague, then it is certainly Croatia, but it should be remembered that some of the moves that have been made in the past were not good and I will repeat that at the time we were on the move, when we could influence the criteria that would be built into the opening of the negotiating chapters were not the will of the then governments, and this is not the government, that these measures were built in place. So, what remains now are negotiations that are sometimes not easy, but Croatia as a Member State has instruments in its hands and I believe that it will lead to the interests of both our countries, but also Croats living in Serbia to seek the best possible solutions. And what I would like to conclude is the question, the question of energy and the stronger use of renewable energy sources, for which Croatia has potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84222	We have one replica of the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Patir, you have touched on an important topic at the very beginning of the exhibition, which is a matter of migration that we are essentially thinking about mainly in the context of the external borders when we say migration, migrants, and so on we think about all that is happening there somewhere on the border with Belarus or here on the border with BiH, but we must not ignore the migration within the EU, regardless of what freedom of movement of the workforce is one of the pillars on which the EU rests. It is something that has been very negatively reflected here and the census has shown it best, and the most endangered are these eastern Slavonia County, Sisak-Moslavina County where you come from, and perhaps these are the problems you should finally face.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84225	Thank you very much, colleague Vucilović, we are very much facing reality. The question of the population census, which showed a reduction in the number of inhabitants, which is conditioned by what you said about Croatia's freedom of movement to the EU and by increasing the number of emigrants, but also by a large difference between the number of deaths and the number of newborns in Croatia, is something that did not occur overnight, which takes many years, and we also have to add for Vukovar-Srijem and Sisak-Moslavina County the consequences of the Homeland War because since then, the population has actually started to fall and it has just continued. These numbers need to be warned, directed in that direction how this situation and these negative trends turn, above all stop, and then turned positive, and in that sense we need to look for measures which I think, in agreement with our experts as well as on the basis of good examples and practices of other countries, we can find. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84226	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mark Milanovic Litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84227	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates several months ago, I was one of the co-signatures of an open letter of support to Poland over a hybrid war being waged by the Belarusian dictatorial authority. This report mentioned it several times, but here I need that letter here to be read publicly, I think it's still relevant. At this moment, as Poland defends the EU's eastern border against illegal migration and faces a hybrid war against Europe that is leading the regime of Alexander Lukashenko by manipulating these difficult fates, I would like to express my support to the Poles in this open letter. For a long time, we have witnessed strong pressure on Polish institutions, pressures coming from Brussels. The EU bodies are founded to promote the interests of people who make up the European community now, unfortunately, being used as a means of attacking a Member State and its democratically elected power. Indeed, it cannot be assumed that the European Parliament, the European Commission and finally the European Court of Human Rights have become tools in the hands of those who want to be politically and ideologically dealt with with by the government in Warsaw by the party of law and justice. Poland is being attacked by the government over its reform of the judicial sector, not taking into account how law and justice are trying to reform a corrupt and inefficient judiciary that is under the powerful influence of post-communist lobbies. It is a problem that other former communist states are plagued and so is Croatia. I do not give myself that freedom to claim that the Polish government is implementing judicial reform without any mistakes. I believe, however, that as a government with democratic legitimacy, it has the right to implement this reform without the influence of the Union institutions. This is also guaranteed by EU documents which do not give jurisdiction over the judiciary of Member States, EU bodies. At the same time, it is argued that Poland is jeopardising the independence of the judiciary but no real evidence has been offered for this claim. It is important to note in its reform Warsaw uses model solutions that already exist in other Western democracies such as Germany or Spain. These solutions, however, are only problematic when used by Poland. With this open letter, I want to support the Poles and the democratic government that represents them. I respect the fact that the Polish government, despite all the pressures, does not want to give up its programme. A programme selected by Polish voters twice in the 2015 and 2019 elections. Due to the commitment of this programme, governments in Warsaw are currently paying legally controversial fines and still do not receive agreed money from the EU Recovery Fund that belongs to it, which I find completely unacceptable. In particular, this is unacceptable now in a situation where Poland, along with the Baltic States, has become a shield that defends the united Europe from the insinuation of hybrid war. I want to support Poland at this point because I believe that it is necessary to support anyone who, regardless of their political beliefs, believes in the democratic principles of solidarity and national sovereignty, decentralisation, freedom of opinion and freedom in general. As citizens of Croatia, a country that has chosen its freedom with heavy victims, we are aware of the importance of this value as well as the Poles whose commitment to their own freedom has in its own time triggered events that led to the fall of communism in Europe. With my signature, I join the support that Poland has recently provided and a number of the United Europe intellectuals, stressing that the fight fought by Poland will decide on the future of the EU and form that community of people. I also put this signature on because I believe in the EU that stands firmly on the basis of the values mentioned, as its founders imagined, respecting the sovereignty and autonomy of its members. It is a community where all members help each other without questioning the inalienable right of every country to create the kind of society its citizens want. This is the right indeed belongs, this right really belongs to every country in the Union, and so it exists, Poland. So I ask the question is it really necessary to take away from eastern Poland at this time of attack and from the West?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84228	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Milanović litre, we work very hard on this every week here in the Croatian Parliament. We often copy the directives without thinking about how we might apply them by respecting Croatian specificities and at one of the meetings, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said that Croatia respects the primacy of European law regardless of the German and Polish Constitutional Court, and now the Romanian Constitutional Court has also challenged the second ruling of the European Court of Justice and argued that their judges should put domestic law first. So now I'm interested in us being in one EU, and the Germans, the Poles and the Romanians in the other? Do they have two EUs? One EU? Where is this European law ship going?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84230	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84231	Thank you, dear colleague Vucilovic. You touched one I'd say interesting things and that's sovereignty. As far as we have sovereign authority, so much will be the sovereignty of our laws and all the decisions we make. If we have a power that adds to someone who wants to gain from someone, I would say grace, then there will certainly be no sovereignty that we need in Croatia. We can see it by examples of rule of law. If we look at the EU's rule of law reports between the disputed let's say Poland and Hungary, and even Slovenia recently mentioned by Croatia is no better than those countries. But Croatia is not mentioned, Croatia is not criticised. It is not criticised because HDZ is working very well with the EU, the European Parliament, the Council and other institutions within the EU. And now the question is whether they work for the benefit of Croatian citizens or work for their own personal benefit and for their personal promotion of certain political actors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84232	Time. Replica of the respected advocates of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84233	A distinguished colleague when the issue of Poland was on the agenda, and our prime minister was pleased to give his opinion. However, it is difficult to say whether it is an opinion or a principled position since it never goes to the scale, but from that we can read at least according to this document that we have received that he said it is a complex and extremely sensitive legal issue of the relationship between national and European legal order. Probably national states. Croatia pointed out this because it is a primacy of European law and has changed some of the provisions of the Croatian Constitution in the EU process. In view of the fact that Poland, on the contrary, stressed that the Constitution is still a roof document that cannot even be affected by the EU in some things so that you can interpret this view of Prime Minister Plenkovic and what consequences it has for you in Croatian politics and its contemporaryity within the European:
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84234	Yeah, well, I'd say that the question, or this whole complex, is one of the most perhaps even the most powerful since we've had one referendum initiative behind us, we expect now to hand over your signatures. The Croatian Constitution changed last time it was due to join the EU, then there was no problem, there was no problem raising hands with colleagues from the SDP. We were all happy, overjoyed. One vote against was in the Croatian Parliament about changing it and that may be the essence of it all. When they do so favourably, they will do everything possible to achieve their goals in private, and most of them are private and not state, but that's also the problem. The problem is the lack of direct democracy in Croatia, which the ruling does not want. They do not want to enter Croatia at any cost. They don't want to hear the voice of the people, they don't want the people to see anything at all. As for Mr Plenkovic and his answers, I guess we're all used to not expecting a direct answer to the direct question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84235	The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84236	Thank you. You have touched a rather complex issue, which is a primate of EU rights over national law. And if the EU hasn't solved it in a way that those who approach or those who form know the answer in advance then it has made a very big mistake and will eventually fall apart. Because it wouldn't be such a question. In my opinion, therefore, what is in power and what we have passed on is a part of the sovereignty of ours we have transferred to the EU and the primacy of European law what are the national subjects of the primates of national law. So, as an EU citizen, I want to know which equal rights as in Croatia can be expected in other EU Member States. And in the end, there's always one primate of national law, and that's when you want to, when you can no longer tolerate the primacy of European right to national, call a referendum, go to the Eu you'll have a full national right when you have a desert debate as the UK.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84237	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84238	Here you are as a lawyer, I'm sure you're better... I'm sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, no. I swapped it for the ministry. Mostly like this. I kind of agree with you. I believe that some foundations must be for all EU member states and these foundations must be clearly known and must be known in advance. For example, euro zones whose conditions have changed over the years. We signed something when we agreed to join the euro area. It has changed several times by then. These are all the problems we have to deal with, because the EU must also be flexible, it must adapt to the time it is in. But it must be borne in mind that each Member State is a private member who has interests above all its citizens. And at the moment when institutions start working against their Member States, then it becomes a problem, and I think that's exactly what Poland is doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84239	Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84240	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates. So here's the pleasure again that we can have a debate on European issues and, as the European Affairs Committee concluded, it was a good practice that I believe all prime ministers will follow. In the debate on behalf of the club, I have given a general view of all the European councils that were, and here, in an individual debate, I would like to concentrate on several topics, primarily on the European Council which was in Port, or a high-level meeting on the European Pillar of Social Rights, as well as a high-level meeting in Glasgow on COP26 of the Conference on Climate Change. So, what was very important in Port, that all EU prime ministers, regardless of all this crisis, clearly give the importance and support of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The European Pillar of Social Rights comprises 20 principles to be produced in the directives of the directive,... in Gothenburg I personally was with Prime Minister Plenkovic there, which contains three chapters of equal opportunities, access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusiveness. When we talk about all these aspects, once again I will repeat 12.5 billion kunas, 700,000 jobs, support for those who are weakly inclusive in the labour market, we primarily think of women 2 billion kunas for more than 30,000 women that we have included in rural areas in the labour market. Young people, self-employment support, I am extremely glad that we have tripled the number of young people opening up their own companies. Supporting the Startup scene and so that we already have several unicorns, or companies worth more than billions of euros, enough to say that Croatia's IT industry is very important. I'm sorry that there are no fellow Chickens and his efforts in Novska that the gaming industry there is strong enough to do so. Supporting older citizens, pensions grew 18%, 20% of the lowest, we still think they are low, but it is important to speed up their increases compared to previous periods when other governments were. For all of this to support the European Pillar of Social Rights, we also have a European Social Fund within which most of these activities are financed. It would further supplement the extended work of kindergartens or the construction of 200 kindergartens as well as STEM or working with young people in the STEM area. Tomorrow we will also have a whole set of social laws within which the birth benefits will be raised from 2,600 to 7,500 kuna, and what I am extremely pleased is that a guarantee for children is launched in Port, especially as it was a feil on which two of our representatives in the European Commission, Vice-President of the Commission Dubravka Šuica and Director of Social Affairs Katarina Ivanković Knezic, who have been obliged to have access to preschool education, a warm meal, health care and adequate accommodation. That's what we've entered into the category of top countries that provide just that for every child. Finally, I would refer to the COP26 meeting where I was personally with my colleague, Celic, in a parliamentary dimension, there was great satisfaction to see that the EU and the summit were taken over by the absolute leadership of other countries, that we were able to get China, India and the United States to commit themselves to the neutrality of greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, there has been no consensus on coal, but... that Prime Minister Plenkovic announced that since 2023 he will leave coal technologies in Croatia, but that we will also protect a third of the Adriatic that is under Croatian jurisdiction as part of the fight against climate change. Overall, the topics that have been addressed over the past year show clear EU privateness, but a clear position for Croatia that has been known to articulate, and I believe that this year will also be an interesting debate on the European Council and that we will also be in the Croatian Parliament for relations with parliaments. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84241	Replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84242	I must, of course, point out that I am touched by this as most Croatian citizens struggle for energy survival, you focus on environmental issues. To me, the environment and science are really close, but it would have been useful to ensure that at least part of your time you first ensured that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia survive this energy crisis in the first place, and then continued to deal with these White World topics. You also mention the social, and tomorrow we have a difficult conversation about a package of social laws that unequivocally condemned almost the whole profession, so you'd better shut up about bringing them up rather than boasting about it. But I'm going to ask you something else, we're talking here, and we haven't heard a Croatian position on the European framework for digital identity and promoting the creation of the most modern European eco-system of peacemakers in the entire value chain and building additional resilience, which means what Croatia has to say about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84244	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Selak Rasudiæ would normally have been active but today you were not in the assembly, if you had listened to my several exhibitions, you would have seen that in the name of the club, I had concentrated for almost five, six minutes precisely on the issue of energy and what the prime minister also pointed out that as soon as the government regulation could regulate the price of gasoline, it would also be through tax action and vouchers for those socially excluded and through the fact that the cost would be transferred mostly to the distributor or HEP to try to ease the crisis, so I am sorry that you did not listen to that part. And you also know, for example, about PSI projects, so projects of great importance, and one of them is both in the field of chips and in the area of... Croatia will be very involved in. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84245	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. What about the injury? Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84246	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. Unfortunately for you, I've heard it all well, and even better than that I've read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84247	If you had heard it, you would have heard it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84248	I'm even better than that, I don't think you can count for me, and I can count for you as long as I've been present at sessions compared to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84249	Count.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84250	And much better than that, I've read exactly what you've done about the energy crisis as part of the European Council, which I'm about to talk about in my debate, I hope you'll listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84251	You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica honours Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84252	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pavic, you spoke about the European programme means the pillar of social rights that I was talking about, and I am glad that you opened the topic because, say, in Croatia, 31% of the older than 65. is at risk of poverty. That's the data of the Eurostat. 423,451 pensioner has a pension of less than 2,500 kuna. This is HZMO's data for the 11th month 2021, so 11% of the total population has received less than 2,500 kuna and 70% of it is your wife. What is Croatia's European application programme interested me in when these are numbers growing year after year, from month to month, how do we apply this European pillar if we grow these figures?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84253	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84254	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Vucilović, the figures can be interpreted in different ways, should be fully watched. Here I am just preparing for this debate printing the British Parliament's report of 26.10.1921, which says that 2% of the UK's citizens are not at risk of poverty but are in poverty. How does Croatia fight? Well, just by European means, exactly the programs I told you. We have 25 billion euros at our disposal for the next 10 years, 2.3 billion euros are part of the European Social Fund for... For employment, for all those socially endangered groups, we have a part in the construction, and what we're doing once again, I'm going to say that pensions are small, but this government is working to maximise and we've shown that, 18% have grown pensions in this government's term, 23% the lowest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84255	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84256	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Pavić, you mentioned the European Social Pillar and the package of really European directives that are not regulations, do not automatically apply, but later we must plan to implement them by adopting our national laws. That brings me to that debate about what kind of legal arrangement it is, so it might not be unclear. Of course, our constitution is a fundamental act of the Republic of Croatia, but the constitution itself then has a special head right in the EU, in European law, and it is referred to again in Article. 141st that has been there and before that constitutional reform that says international contracts are in force above the law. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84257	Except for the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84258	In addition to the constitution, but the constitution itself says that international contracts are above national laws and therefore there are no problems in the application of neither the regulation nor the EU directive, everything is in line with the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84259	Thank you, dear fellow Stier. So I think that by very quoting the constitution, you have made it clear that by taking over the acquis or EU legislation, the constitution has adapted itself, it is clear in which sectors and domains we have the interference of European legislation, we know clearly within which we have the directive and that it is applied and clearly known as health care where it is not at all a matter of common policy, and that, in particular in this covid crisis, it is looking at how to create a health union, not that the EU prescribes something that needs a health system, but that health systems co-ordinate each other's struggle with the pandemic. It used to be the same article in the 141st relationship, if I'm not mistaken. Therefore, it is very clear that the one who reads the part covered by national legislation, which covers the European legislation and in which subjects the legislation has a primate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84260	Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84261	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is almost 5 hours of discussion about the government's report on the held meetings of the European Council, which has already been established since Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, we remember very well how it was before and that practically this topic came to an HS debate once a year. Through the debate after each European Council, we too as representatives, as well as the general public, are sensitised with topics that are important and important for life in Croatia. What this report reads, and what is particularly important for Croatia, are the topics which we here in HS and in the political space of Croatia have repeatedly highlighted, which is the topic which has dominated almost every meeting of the European Council is the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. And just on one of these councils in May, it seems to me that the need to introduce Covid certificates into the legal system of a Member State so that they can effectively fight, effectively fight, against the pandemic. And it is clear that Covid's confirmations have proved to be one of the ways of countering, suppressing the epidemic in the field of individual countries, and in this aspect I also see what happens especially in Croatia, at that time as we record and fight against the epidemic of Croatia very effectively safeguarding our own economy. Well, from the data that I received, which I was encouraged to discuss, I'm sorry we don't have our colleague Katarina Peovic, and this data shows that Croatia is growing in the second quarter of Croatia's economy, in the second quarter, in the third quarter of 15.8 and that we are, and that we are, by GDP growth after Ireland in 2021, a second country for GDP growth. What it wants to reduce such a growth of GDP in Croatia, the growth of Croatia's economy has continued to repeat that Croatia has grown the most a year before and since it is logical that this year immediately after the crisis in 2020, its economy has grown significantly faster so that it could be served if, according to Eurostat data, in such.../incomprehensible/... such indicators, the Croatian economy already at the end of the third quarter of 2021 was 1.5% more than the total GDP of Croatia at the end of the third quarter and 2019. I also assess this very, very important because of the fact that the average of EU Member States is 4% GDP growth in 2020, Croatia is at 10.7% which I would like to particularly show, therefore, that with the year in which we are struggling with the biggest health crisis in the last 100 years, the Croatian economy thanks to the numerous measures of headquarters and the government is growing at the rates I mentioned earlier. So I must say that all these criticisms, the remarks not to say the initiatives that were going towards, towards the destruction of the headquarters, the destruction of measures, the destruction of Covid's confirmation by me are unacceptable and I think that by watching what other democratic EU member states are doing and how they approach the fight against the epidemic, our approach is more than, more than acceptable. However, it was very encouraging for the state and the economy to grow as I mentioned earlier in my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84262	We have one replica, dear Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84263	I suppose you mean these initiatives like ours that in time have seen what is now recognised by a growing number of countries of the world and the EU, which is that Covid confirms are completely pointless, so perhaps you could talk about their effectiveness with Great Britain, Spain or Israel who have declared them pointless and now abolish them. But I'm going to ask you something else when you're already on the subject of the pandemic, and as far as this report is concerned, which you haven't really talked about, I don't know, maybe you've been as bored as the Prime Minister was the boring current clock that he made boring because he didn't give answers to questions that were very predictable. I'm going to ask you about the health union that's being announced within this report. What would that include, in your opinion, would the health union assume that at EU level they will decide on mandatory vaccination for all Member States or on the mandatory introduction of a Covid certificate in any future for all Member States, or do you think that Croatia should decide for itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasudić, I did not talk about other topics covered by this report, I was talking about the topic that I think marked the entire work of the European Council last year, not just the European Council, but what is very important to me, the work of the Croatian Parliament, the work of the Croatian Government. And in this context, your commitment to abolishing the Covid certificates that you are proposing and for which you have launched an initiative to call a referendum for me is absolutely unacceptable because, as you can see, mortality in EU Member States is exactly the opposite of the proportion of population breakdowns in a particular EU Member State. And it's not clear to me that you and MOST don't understand it and they won't accept it. and as far as the health union is concerned, it writes and how it will not be discussed until after it has been discussed. [[Intruder: Time.]] It concludes and ends this epidemic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84265	Next individual debate, respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84266	Well, my colleague Bacic doesn't matter what it says is that he's about to discuss himself or what's not yet a subject, so you probably have an attitude and opinion, you don't have to wait for the EU to tell you what attitude you're going to bring to your country, but you can emphasize it yourself, and maybe if you're bold enough to direct the rest of the heads inside the EU to share your position. So, I expect someone who is currently managing Croatia to know the answer to the question whether vaccination should be mandatory in a future pandemic or in this if it continues at EU level, so is Covid's confirmation. I'm sorry that you don't dare or don't know how to answer that question, but it says a lot about your management capacities in this country, fortunately they're on the way down anyway. I'm going to focus on this very document, and it seems to me that in many of its key segments today he's skipped because I have this habit of reading texts that come to our agenda in HS I've done this time and found lots of interesting things that I think we should talk about. One of them is what is currently happening with the euro, and it points out, related to the international role of the euro, that the role has somewhat weakened as a result of the financial crisis and the euro currently represents 19% of international transactions. So, at the time when the euro's role at international level has weakened, Croatia is running and is not required, we have not set the time to introduce it. What does that tell us? In whose interest is that? So I'm calling specifically on this document. Surely, at this point, the euro's weakness cannot be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia will not, by its introduction of the euro, be able to draw out the euro crisis that is happening within the EU. The second thing is also important, and it was about what my colleagues were talking about earlier, which is issues of unresolved issues that we have with the Republic of Serbia and their process of entering the EU, or accession negotiations. Here we have a series of floscules in response to our prime minister, an exceptional importance that the speedy resolution of still unresolved open issues, etc., but the concrete consequences of these flossules that have not been repeated for years. And that is what we were only interested in within this document and our participation in the EU, which we were able to win in the European Council for the Republic of Croatia. And now I will come to one of the key issues that has been very much discussed today, and my colleague Pavic has been silenced at European Council level to help Croatia in this energy crisis elections for our specific situation and to help the entire EU overcome the crisis. So, when a package of measures to act and support to deal with rising energy prices was discussed in October, our prime minister participated in the debate with one sentence. The prime minister said Croatia is accessing gas as a fuel for a transitional period towards full use of renewable energy sources in which we will invest even more. I will repeat again, Croatia has access to gas as a fuel for a transitional period towards the full use of renewable energy sources in which we will invest even more. At the moment of the biggest energy crisis where you're selling us the story that you're looking for a solution, when this crisis has already been anticipated and solved at European level, our prime minister said if you don't have bread to eat cookies, our prime minister said let go now the gas we're more to you for these hoh topics we would now talk about renewable energy sources. So that is the only thing our prime minister in the European Council has said about the energy crisis and its only contribution to how the interests of the Republic of Croatia should be resolved. So now you tell us later that you will face this crisis and indeed help Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, this has not come out unequivocally in public because many have not read this document, but I will continue to repeat it, that you can no longer sell the story that you are thinking at all and that you are aware of how dependent Croatia is on gas and how you will solve this crisis that we are sinking deeper and which will only strike our citizens. There are many still open issues such as health union and digital identity that I have not received a concrete answer here from the ruling regarding this texts that we should all discuss first in Parliament and then in the European Council [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84267	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84268	Thank you very much. Art. 238nd colleague Rasudiæ is an absolutely incorrect thing. To begin with, this report is not a transcript of a speech, so you can't claim that the prime minister said only one sentence. The second thing, absolutely Croatia has, unlike Germany, where the gas immediately accumulated we have regulated prices by April 1, the prime minister made it very clear that there are three categories of measures that citizens will have at their disposal to control, so Don't be a disaster... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84269	This was your replica you get a warning, that's your third warning you're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. Followed by a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84270	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Selak Raspadic. No one in this country except HDZ has the capacity to manage Croatia and otherwise, and especially not in times of crisis, and I'm not saying it, it's not just my position, that's what Croatian citizens keep telling us to run the country. Unfortunately, the bridge management capacities will never be able to testify because you'll never be able to, not because I don't want to, but the citizens won't give it to you, that's what this is about. And about your knowledge, about your capacities, about your judgment is the fact that even today you do not know in the Bridge the position of introducing the euro. You're not sure if it's good, it's not good, and 10 years have passed since we conducted the referendum and signed a contract for Croatia's accession to full membership because we knew then that we would introduce the euro. The bridge and you don't know that attitude today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84271	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84272	Comrade Bacic, everyone scratches where it it itches. You already feel this coming to power that you have nothing else to talk about but talking about it now, and I thank you for that, and I believe that we will surely lead this country better than you, because given all the corruption that you're rightfully judged for, it won't be much of a range. I find this all very amusing to listen to colleague Pavic deliberately silenced your government's incredible contribution to this report by Prime Minister Plenkovic to discuss the energy crisis, so there is only one passphrase on renewable energy sources here. Such modesty from our prime minister really exceeds my and greatest expectations. We have made our views clear on the euro both on time and unlike you, we would not crash with it now when the European Council tells you that at the international level the euro is in crisis, and you will have to explain this inflation and this crisis to Croatian citizens when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84273	The next replica, the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84274	Speaking of this complete detachment of European structures from the reality of Croatian citizens, which is seen in the fact that the only thing the EU Prime Minister has to say on the Council about the upcoming energy crisis and the rise in energy prices is that, anyway, this is too far for us for these sustainable sources of energy, reminds me of one not anecdote but a true story witnessed by my friend, who was an interpreter for SFOR in 1997. In one return village near Capljina, therefore the poor family, the father of the disabled, the sick child, two other children, the heavy poor, had nylons on the windows, so from UNHCR and this European poet humanitarian with SFOR he translates this man to ask him if you classify the waste in '97.? He says I was ashamed to translate it, I translated if your kids are going to school, and he's climates go, go, go says, here. It was that form of mentis almost 30 years ago. In these structures, here is today Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84275	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84276	That's modern now. These are trends in the topic of renewable energy sources, and no one is thinking about Croatia's reality and how it should first enable citizens to be at all, to survive energy, and then we can talk about some renewableness, and before we should have talked about energy independence which if we talk about Croatia in a trend from 2015 to today is just a decline, so we are increasingly dependent on energy. We also see this at a wider level when we listen to what is happening in the City of Zagreb, we talk about green roofs, walk around Glasgow, while both mothers grow up on the street and this is your social sensitivity and struggle for environmental policies. At a similar wave of trends, and avoiding the real problems of Croatian citizens, and we are in a serious energy crisis, our Prime Minister Plenkovic, unfortunately of course Croatian citizens, is riding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84277	Next is the individual debate of the respected Nin Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84278	I'm going to go up to where I stopped by saying about the work of the EU Council in the last year and Croatian participation in it, about what was silenced, and it's signifiable. The president of the government has silenced the conclusions of the EU Council since 14 December, which have smoothly kicked out what Croatia has proposed to put into it, and Croatia is without a problem, without all of it. And as part of some general policy which is clearly dictated by Brussels and Berlin, which is the submission of Bosniak unitaryism with which time goes hand and which in October of this year, if there is no change to the electoral law, and there is no indication that this will happen, will be elected under quotes by representatives of the Croats and the House of Peoples and the Presidency. And what are the consequences of this when Croats do not have their political representatives we have seen for example the attempt to block the construction of the Peljev Bridge. Now, as part of this reorientation to co-operate with Bosniak unitarians and assist them with some apaurin visits to Mostar, where strong messages of support are sent to the Croats in BiH, and time passes, elections nearer, nothing happens, the fact that, for example, we are on the anniversary of Vukovar, saw with his eyes, that Plenkovic brought along SDA Vice-President Šefik Jaferovic, the war chief of the Centre for Security in Zenica, who granted BiH citizenship to the mujahedins who fought in BiH. These are not my claims but the former BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radoncic's claims that he did not disprove. I will also remind that Dzaferovic, just the day before his arrival in Vukovar, said that, I quote, where the legal authority was and the BiH Army respected the human rights of all people, preserved all cultural and religious objects and monuments, behind the BiH Army did not remain mass graves and camps. It's a finished quote. According to data from the Croatian State War Documentary Centre in BiH, more than 14,000 Croats were imprisoned in 331 camps, so-called "The World War". The BiH Army, of which 2/3 civilians, is more than 10,000 Croatian civilians. In these camps 632 Croats were killed, 50 of them ritualically cutting off their heads. Instead of sending a protest note afterwards, the president dragged such a man and walked beside him in Vukovar. Last week, we could also read how Prime Minister Plenkovic sat in Dubrovnik with Bakir Izetbegovic to discuss joint projects for the South Interconnection, and a joint meeting of the government and the BiH Council of Ministers. Why so much insisting on saving the Democratic Action Party Bakir Izetbegovic and his partners? Will the joint session of our government and the BiH Council of Ministers also invite Selmo Cikotic, the BiH Security Minister and wartime commander of the BiH Army under whose responsibility is an ethnic cleansing of 15,000 Croats from Bulgaria and the surrounding area, 311 killed, 2,000 captured from whom some are still wanted? Representatives of the Croats in BiH and the missing Bulgarians almost begged Izetbegovic and the SDA not to appoint Cikotic as minister, but they seemed to be deaf, which also sends a message to the Croats. The DORH also indicted Minister Cikotic last year, and you would invite such people to Croatia for a joint meeting. Will the BiH government and council of ministers also invite Bisera Turkovic, the foreign minister who accuses Croatia at international forums, and is also known for her statement at the University of George Washington, quote that all three people in BiH will be assimilated and all together feel Bosnians, including Hercegovese? Are these good neighbourly relations and good international relations and how much Croatia is ready to swallow Plenkovica? Prime Minister Plenkovic agreed to play the role his mentor Mate Granic played in his own time, which is to save the SDA and Bosniak Radicals party. During the war, Plenkovic was shot, and now he saves the SDA from the situation in which the party brings itself to bullying, Majorisation, the worst political humiliation and blackmailing Croats in BiH. And that policy has been going on for three decades. Instead of long-term strategic positioning that would allow BiH Croats to conduct an autonomous policy, and Plenkovic's government has decided to follow the instructions from Berlin and Brussels, and in its talks rewarding Bosniak radical policy on behalf of the wider alliance, the European and world anti- Milorad Dodig. And I've already asked what your alternative is to Milorad Dodig? Sarajevo partner SDSS Radovan Karadzic, young mayor of Banja Luka Stanivukovic whose statements we heard. I fear that Andrej Plenkovic's policy towards BiH is another one in a series of policies taken over from Brussels that later ironed with the PR. Time goes by, elections get closer, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84279	Next is the individual debate of the respected Arsen Bauk. You're called.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84280	No, I can't stay indifferent to these lunches, to these untruths, these actually statements that come from the office without looking outside which is actually purely political blindness. Talk to me about Bugojn. If you're already talking about Selma Cikotić, then it would be good to mention Devada Jr. if you're going so far away and a lot of other things to say. Have you ever been to Bugojn? I believe you weren't. Have you been to Križance's village? You know that's where 63 civilians were killed, slaughtered as well. Did you light a candle? Did you lay a crown? Were you in Grabovica where 33 people were killed and 19 disappeared, etc. My colleague, I'm going to have you break up so much with Andrej Plenkovic, and you're hitting this government, and you're actually quoting Hegel. But I would simply calm down the situation here, so I quote our people, and you know that in Herzegovina that you are coming also says you are not hitting on straw, but on class. You're hitting on the class. Only a political blind man and someone who does not see the importance of co-operation would not sit down and talk wherever you can talk and in the interest of the Croatian people in BiH. When you mentioned Mr. Djafirovic, then you could have asked me because I have the right information. Mr. Djafirovic came alone, didn't even announce himself. He was released across the border civilizedly. So what's supposed to happen at that point if he wants to pay his respects? Well, we've been acting culturally, and in the end, man has honored that it is a civil act where Croatia has shown its inclusiveness. Of course we can have an opinion on anyone. But when it comes to the position of the Croatian people in BiH, I can tell you that we have had so many conversations and conferences and activities that you can't even imagine we had. But I would ask you instead of reading Hegel, find one of your associates in any other EU country or the world who reads Hegel if you sent him any letter as a parliamentary representative, so you can act like that and point out what the situation in BiH is, to help us act together. Criticism is welcome, constructive criticism. But you're a critic. You're actually only saying bad things because you're only here for hate, hatred for this government, for Andrej Plenkovic and ministers. You don't really want to see any good. That's it. So you don't want to see any good, no results. But that doesn't bother us at all. But certainly that when you, obviously you have some information at sunset are management capacities etc. And when you're in power, etc. Well, it's democracy, there'll be elections, so you'll be right. But I can't really imagine considering my experience so that I could give it to you. Perhaps you could be at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the attaché or the third secretary, but if you were running this country, I don't think it would be safe or possible. So if, I know you're interested in the situation of the Croats in BiH, I know we all have it. But why don't you want to see the results? Why don't you want to see well? And when we talk, of course, to all who are in the interest of, of course, the situation in BiH because it is not just about the position of the Croatian people, it is about the stability of the whole of BiH. But they are actually the best results when political leaders agree. Of course, Croats as an native people, as an indigenous people, cannot be excluded from these management processes. You're laughing, ma'am, but you don't actually know what's going on down there. You have some kind of narrative that you're actually accusing this government of unhappiness, of ineffectiveness, but I see results and I'm optimistic on that side. So I can really convince you and get ready for you, but I don't think you're going to get power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84281	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84282	I'm offended by article 238. First I was instructed to hate HDZ, this power. I don't hate anybody. I just love Croatia and the Croatian people and that's why I think it's good for this government to leave. Another thing, it's called where I've been, where I've lit candles. That's why you were in Križančev village and Bugojn you can't have Djaferović walking along Plenkovic in Vukovar and you can't negotiate with Cikotić and Turkovic's joint cabinet session in the year where the Croatian revote is being prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84283	It was a replica, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. That's your third warning, you're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. Followed by the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84284	Article 238, you spoke here and disrespected political blindness, and you are present only when we talk about BiH's political death. Something's got to you, Hegel. Hegel said that what is both smart and real, and with you what is smart remains meaningful, you are talking and talking and talking and talking in the European Council, in BiH, etc., and results, concrete consequences nowhere. That's the end of it. anti-hegelian. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84285	You know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure but your replica and you get a warning. That's your third warning, you're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. Followed by the replica of the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84286	Thank you. Mr. Minister has already several times on the side of the HDZ, and you have joined it, the governments of this unfairly, a little unfairly respecting the MOST for their lack of capacity for power. So who brought HDZ to power twice in 2015 and 2016? You gave them 6-7 ministries, how they had the capacity then. So here I am asking you not to be so... No, no, don't be so unfair. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I think you should, that you deserve to valorise that, and the criticisms brought to the expense of the situation in BiH are justified to me. So, there's talk, talk, talk, and there's no movement and there's not even gonna be anyone else for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84287	Well, thank you very much, but you see, and then we showed inclusiveness, we gave it a chance, we gave it a chance, but it was missed. Unfortunately, the bridge is except that the building facility has one function he is also a symbol of connecting that he has always had one width two-thirds, two-thirds, but it's not well you know if the bridge becomes at some point a splinter, and the mussel has always been very narrow and she's only had one tape this override, I wouldn't want to bring it into that sense of fiction, but the fact that we're no longer talking about that we've lost trust and that they haven't actually shown credibility and capacity and the state's management potential, and here we go from Plato then, let's get involved us and Plato here. So here's the general interest above all else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84288	Next individual debate, respected representative Arsen Bauk. [[What about my injury to the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84289	This function of joining the minister and the MOST that you mentioned today has been re-established at one symbolic level. After they got us to paralyze to death, then today Nikola Grmoya Marijana Petir said she was paralysing on the victims, so they connected us and HDZ this time exactly as you said, but it doesn't matter. I'm not immune to jumping these things well in these situations either. Now, in 2018, before one of the many elections under the current BiH electoral law, a strong parliamentary delegation with 2 former Foreign Ministers Stier and Mira Kovac and a slightly weaker part of the foreign political delegation with me were visiting, in the parliamentary dimension of co-operation with BiH, and you know what's most interesting to go before this election today, we could all repeat what we were saying there. The EU has also tried to amend the electoral law, and everyone has shown a good will to change it, but it has changed nothing. Now, the position of the SDA is one paradoxical, so it's not the SDA voters who choose the Komsic, right, the SDA voters have their candidate and vote for their own because if they didn't vote they wouldn't have been elected either, Bečirević or Radoncic would have been chosen for the last time or one of these others so that I don't actually understand the SDA uses it as a kind of negotiating, negotiating potential. This was also said by the president of the SDA in an interview before the new year in Hayat, and so he made it clear that the SDA will not betray its fellow Croats who have always been worthy or loyal to their country and that they cannot represent only Croats from the HVO, so to speak. So he didn't say anything now that he doesn't normally say. Secondly, all representatives of the Bosnian-Herzegovic political parties have the support of their voters for what they say both Dodik and Covic and Izetbegovic and Komsic, so they say what their voters think. And it is illusory to expect that they will agree, manage to agree on something when the political views of voters, citizens, peoples are as much different as you want. This can only be done by pressure, not to say force, but not by force of war, but by political pressure in a way, and by involving the United States, they have now become a little more involved, Russia is always present. As far as the EU is concerned, I must say that I do not know who EU officials represent. They should represent us, too. In some of their views, I do not recognise that they represent us, and some others do not represent other EU countries or citizens, so I find that the EU is unnecessary there. It has to be assessed when you get rid of it if BiH meets the conditions for EU accession or if they say we receive you immediately, unconditionally not to fight or fall apart. That's good. I think it's paradoxically interesting, in fact, that the only and first decision taken together by the three current EU presidency members concerned when they were established. They could not agree on anything, but the EU was able to agree, NATO remained on the sidelines. Therefore, to conclude, we have been talking for years about the position of the Croatian people in BiH, but in terms of institutional representation, it is the same because nothing has changed since the first election cycle, or since 1996, elections have been held for members of the presidency, so how many mandates have some been two years. For the People's House, something was changed by the High Representative, and now, you know, the High Representative was a representative of the international community, and now he's a representative of the international community because the other part of the international community, say Russia doesn't recognise him as a high representative, they didn't even want to hear him out in front of the Security Council. How is there a solution, agreement, or conversation? And when you talk, you can talk in gloves and do nothing, and you can talk figuratively in boxing gloves and use a little more intense rhetoric when you see that someone simply doesn't help. Therefore, I think the message here is clear, so the European Council is not a place, I think that the European Council is not a place where something can be resolved on BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84290	Replica Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84291	Dear counterpart Bauk, here I will agree with you that as far as BiH is concerned for 15 years, and perhaps 20 years, the same story is constantly spinning, and the same thing is taping in the same place. However, of course we are interested in not only that the Croats are a constituent people there, but realistically looking at every fourth of Croatia's origins from BiH, so here is Minister Grlic Radman from the Danube region, my mother is from the Danube region, especially with us in Slavonia, especially this BiH has been constantly filling this Slavonia and our area unfortunately, and this pool has been emptied. However, if the EU is not the possibility or the European Council where BiH's problems can be solved, how do you see the possibility of resolving the "political pressure" problem in BiH, especially the Croats in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84292	Otherwise, when they give us back everyone from BiH, I know that in "Death Smailage Cengic" there was also some Bauk on the Turkish side struggled with Ahmet from Niksic, but that was old Herzegovina at the time. I wasn't investigating. How do I see a solution without using the first soap then perfume? I have to say, I don't see much different than what it is right now. So this is the starting position that will remain very similar, and if there is a shift that not all shifts will be on that side that we from Croatia, for example, want some consensus about. So, I don't think the Republika Srpska will stop or stand out without a war, I don't think the Croats will get a chance to choose their own presidency member, and I don't think the Bosniak side will get more centralisation than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84293	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84294	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. I'm going to get on a colleague named Bauk. You are right that much cannot be changed, but the worst part is that in the end, Croats are the biggest losers in BiH in every respect. Losers in that Federation, losers in terms of election law and what is the worst losers in demographic terms. The Bosniaks, according to the last census in BiH, have crossed over 50%, make up almost 80% of the population within the Federation, Croats are listed on only 15%, 13% pardon, and in fact the actual figure is far less than we all know. And this is the biggest problem regarding the Croatian people and Croatian survival in BiH, except for this narrow belt that exists in Herzegovina and only a few thousand Croats in the area of Oras and Odzak, only a few thousand Croats are almost gone. But we return to our problems, and these are the problems of Croatia which, as I have already said, is entering the ninth year as a full member of the EU, unfortunately our fellow citizens do not feel it much today. The consequence of this entry is primarily what the good 250,000 people left Croatia for us, on the one hand we have a government regardless of whether left or right that boasts about eu projects, with eu funds, and I wonder how it was built until we were members of the EU, from which funds, from the state budget? I wonder what the state budget is for except for salaries and pensions if we can't single out anything else for municipal and any other infrastructure. On the other hand, we have here our minister who has openly said that he can be happy in such Croatia and its children and I am glad that the minister can be happy. I can't be happy, I can't be happy in this kind of Croatia that lost in the Homeland War 15,500 people. I can't be happy in this Croatia that's been in the last 10 years. He lost 300,000 residents in the peacetime that went to Western European countries. I can't be happy because half my family's been out there for the last few years, young highly educated men in the tension of power founded by families in Austria, Germany, Denmark, Ireland. I cannot and must not be happy as a parliamentary representative because Croatia currently looks this way. And all these topics that are mentioned in the meetings of the European Council are topics that concern the EU globally. The theme of demographics that is the subject of all topics I have seen in this report is also the priority of Andrej Plenkovic and all of our ministers to impose this particular topic on the European Council because we are watching and we must look primarily at our interests, and on the other hand, it is a time for one national consensus and national unity on this topic regardless of whether left or right, belong to this or that political option, I am first willing to respond to one joint meeting of all parliamentary options to find a solution and create a demographic strategy for the restoration of Croatia for the next 30 or 50 years. with the help of demographic experts because this is a matter of all questions, believe me. I come from Vukovar, what the Danube end of 30 years turned into, which turned a large part of Central Bosnia 30-40 years ago. That's what the whole of Slavonia is turning into. You have villages that seem to disappear, apparently. I get chilly when I say that, when you don't come to one village for three months and you see that there are no 20-30 people. You have villages that have lost in Vukovar-Srijem County 30% of the population in just 10 years, these villages are soon turning into salasses. You have a property that no longer has anyone to maintain, everything will heal in weeds and drach, then the cities move, and then it goes towards the metropolis, and it's a question of all the questions where we have to find a common language if we want good tomorrow to ourselves and our nation and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84295	We have a replica, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84296	Thank you very much. Well, you don't know what you're sending. Salash is where you don't live, where you come occasionally, and that turns Slavonia, the whole, not our villages, the whole Slavonia. And you're talking about demographic policy, that I agree with you, but demographic policy is not just a set of incentives for new parents, demographic policy is an overall policy, we want to talk about the economy, employment, social security, legal security, etc., so we can't view it as just one segment of the action of any local government. That's one thing, and the other thing that people didn't start leaving us because we came into the EU, people started leaving us because we weren't up to it, when I say I'm talking about the whole succession, the government, we weren't up to answering the challenges that a modern time put before us, and that's what I said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84297	I will agree with you in part, colleague Hajdukovic, that demographic policy includes a whole set of measures, much wider than demographics, than economy, security, and so on, but you don't feel that you are partly responsible because your party comrades were now former party comrades in government, have you ever advocated the establishment of the Ministry of Demography as a separate Ministry of Immigrants? Today we have more Croats outside the Republic of Croatia than in Croatia. Have you ever truly brought any demographic measure? You're not, like you're not ruling now. I personally gave three amendments to this budget, you all refused without reason to the Malta not, from the parent's mother to the child's allowance for all children, is it a child's allowance, it's not a parent's allowance regardless of the property censorship until the extension of work to 4 hours to 15 years. The child's life. Everything's been denied, we don't have a demographic strategy, and we all take responsibility, starting with me, and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84298	Next replica, respected Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84299	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Pavlichek, you spoke several times today about demographics. You're coming from the county as far as I'm aware there's the highest percentage of population decline since the last census. Our whole migration situation is devastating, it is defeated within Croatia, it is also defeated by those who go outside Croatia. Centralisation in the context of the City of Zagreb and the economy that depends on the City of Zagreb and the necessary decentralisation that is needed in Croatia is not happening. Before New Year's Eve, I went to a conference in Sofia where the topic was... The Western Balkans and the accession of new EU members. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say that there is one particular interest and desire for all of these new members to join the EU, but they do not realize that when they enter, what happened to Croatia will happen to them, and that is to move out of their country and seek life abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84300	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84301	Yes, I agree with you, and that's where I'm going to rely on my colleague Hajdukovic. At some point, Croatia was not ready to enter or prepare its citizens for either eu projects or anything, 99.9% of our citizens did not know what the concept of eu project meant, how to extract money and how. Let us remember the first few years of our EU membership, how much we used. It was a miserable number. I just think last year we got more out than we've ever paid. It just shows where we are and what we are, but the consequence is that today we have 250,000 Croats living in Western European countries and they have no intention of making it the worst way back, and on the other hand let's go from ourselves, so let's cut down the number of parliamentary representatives. This population doesn't need us to be 151. Let's cut the number of municipalities, we don't need 525 municipalities and cities. We don't need 525 commissioners and a few thousand councilmen, for what? You today have municipalities with 700-800 inhabitants who are the purpose of themselves, the captains who have their own cars. It is not one Switzerland that can endure, let alone Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84302	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84303	Thank you very much. The colleagues and colleagues you've survived until these late hours. It is very good to have discussions on European issues, and that is where we will agree. Not to repeat myself again, I think the government's good intentions are to discuss this as often as possible and as transparently as possible. But frankly, I wish we had discussed more important issues and less about Plato and Hegel. Both Plato and Hegel, I highly appreciate that you do not understand me wrong, but I think there are many more questions that we should have touched and which are much more binding and important to Croatian citizens. With all due respect to our countrymen living in BiH, I think it's an extremely important topic but I'm not sure how important it is for this point. This is what we discuss when we talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, we discuss it on a resolution board, we discuss sometimes also in the tide, and we need to touch ourselves here absolutely and it stands through the enlargement of the Union, through the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we need to be and is focused on, and I am pleased to see it. But I'd like to be honest with you that we've been focusing on other topics. Demography is absolutely one of the most important topics. This is also mentioned by counterpart Pavliček, but also by the topic of energy self-sufficiency of the Union, the topic of security of the region. So through enlargement and through the insurance of the rights of our minorities in neighbouring countries, but also through the European perspective of Southeast Europe, we are also touching these topics. The topic of border protection, the external borders of the EU and then the borders of the Republic of Croatia and a whole series of other topics that are actually related to this Union. Because I'm afraid that sometimes in the debate on these points, we can delude ourselves a little by arguing from the perspective of only Croatian. We have to have a bit of a wider perspective there. Of course, the Croatian perspective is always what it can, should and will dominate this debate. But there is also the question of the Union and what we from the Union can get and we need to get as a member. That's why we're a member of the Union. And that's what I'm talking about. So energy self-sufficiency, security, stability, defence of borders, demographics, all those added values that we can withdraw from the Union. And the common army, for example, is one of the issues, and the common protection of the sea is one of the issues and a whole series of other issues that perhaps we should start opening up in perspective. And what I'm glad to think is that somehow from the debate on this topic we're slowly coming up with and maybe it's a guideline that we should go to and the way we should approach this topic. This is a topic in the Croatian Parliament, so from which we should touch Croatian interests, and therefore perhaps I wish the prime minister had stayed longer because he could probably answer us more Meritically questions. That the minister is not offended, it is nothing personal, but the prime minister is at most meetings of this format and can therefore give a whole new dimension that you ministers cannot for objective reasons, but you are not at all meetings. You have meetings where you are present, which you regularly report to us. Unfortunately, at the level of the board, not at the level of the tide. But it's a good thing the Prime Minister is taking the time to discuss this. But to conclude and bring the end slowly. It is good to update European themes in the Croatian Parliament. That's what we should continue to do, and that's what the law obliges us to do. I'm glad we're out of these legal frameworks and we're talking more about it. This will continue from the perspective of the Committee on European Affairs and other committees. And I am very pleased to note that more and more committees are interested in European issues and attitudes to which Croatia presents to the EU Council in different formats. And I hope that through the flow of years, time and awareness, we will actually come up with the importance of these topics and we will come up with a more measurable, focused and more reasoned debate here on European topics which are also Croatian topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84304	Next is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84305	Thank you. Croatia became a full member of the EU in 2013. The access contract was signed in 2011. We became a candidate in 2003, and the Alliance for Europe HDZ and SDP concluded in 2004 and otherwise in Zagreb the Eurovision song was held where the song "Insieme" which spoke about the EU was won in 1992 and Europe was united, and we were waiting for the fight for independence and after that the job of EU accession. That is why it is always good to evaluate the memories of this historical nature so that we can see Europe today. And today, a colleague Milanović litre mentioned this, in fact, the story of whether we want more Europe or less in our lives? Or should I be more specific about whether we want more EU or less of an EU in our lives? Or as that British leader that independent party used to say, we love Europe, but we don't love the European Union. I am afraid not to say his last name wrong, so I just said the function so it is also very important here how much more the European Union becomes or tries to become or there are trends so-called. Brussels bureaucrats who honor some of the Croatian duties and other names and functions to create from the EU over a country that would be above their members, on the one hand, but on the other hand, there is resistance to the EU becoming a self-serving national state which will then be Europeans and Europeans and benefit from what the EU brings them, and when it does not suit them suddenly engage its constitutional courts and say that European law is below their right. What should be defined here as the position of Croatia, is there a consensus of the largest parties in Croatia? You know what's paradoxical? In my view, in this election for the European Parliament, Croatian citizens proved to be the most mainstream European compared to the rest of Europe, so of the 12 Euro MPs 9 made them the mainstream parties that make up the majority in the European Parliament, that is 75%. I don't know if one country has chosen that, I haven't seen it now, but surely since they've barely collected that majority, it's not exactly 75 anywhere. Therefore, regardless of the volume of anti-European and anti-EU elements, I see Croatia as an extremely pro-European society and a pro-European country. It is not that we now have all the indicators as in these older EU members, but at least that on mothers we are actually acting as a society that advocates European values. This is why it is important for these reports from the European Council to mention some topics in HS. We have experience of such life in multinational and complex states, not only in Yugoslavia but also in Austria-Hungarian times, we have had our representatives in Vienna in the Ugar Parliament, so we have always fought in some way to get out of where we can, and we have mostly tried not to conflict with others, but we have not been able to avoid some conflicts. Now it's time again, now as one politician has said in battles and in front of battles, those fortunately are not armed, and this other one has not otherwise ruled them out then and unfortunately his threat has come true, which is that every time we have to fight for our place under the sun under the European sun and under the European sky to respect us as ourselves equal, and not as some who have come last and who are in the last bench. And that's why every time Mr. Minister and the Prime Minister get a criticism from your colleagues on the right that you're not loud enough, you understand, I won't be a lawyer on the right of Croatia, but well-meaning. That would tell us a lot worse than they tell you when we were on that occasion. For daily political reasons and tactics of the Prime Minister, we will be restrained about this report and will monitor the functioning of Croatian institutions in European bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84306	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84307	... This government has managed to raise the economy, pay and credit rating has risen, we have kept jobs, we have mitigated the negative consequences of the pandemic by fast government moves and measures. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] My colleagues and colleagues, you are here today, unfortunately not enough of them are gone, but there are, today you have compared in various contexts economic and financial positions and positions of Croatia with other Member States and mentioned that from the time of entry into the EU Croatia could and should take better places. Since most of us here have lived through these same disasters together, but you yourself have been able to see all the objective and other facts and remember how Croatia went through a difficult war, a time of severe recovery, financially. Let's just think of refugees in Croatia, let's remember the renovations often let's forget about it, war damage and everything else. I must therefore stress that Croatia must always look separately because it is not until 2000. start using EU funds, EU funds and take some time to catch up with other EU Member States. However, already now Croatia has managed to catch a rhythm with the Member States and has chosen its place. Croatia had to go through a strict procedure, confirm its reputation and credibility in order to enter the Schengen and Eurozone accession process. Despite the pandemic, Croatia successfully and impeccably carried out its first Presidency of the EU Council when it again showed that it can stand by the older members precisely because it is brave and consistent with all the challenges and address them. In time, Croatia took the necessary measures and adapted to the latest state or pandemic and did everything possible for its population. She did a successful tourist season and, of course, helped the economy in this extraordinary situation. The seriousness of this government's work has also been recognized after devastating earthquakes. Croatia has managed to provide eu funds which, with all the skills of professions and practices in similar situations, will use them for good purposes and according to the rules. If we compare the other disasters that hit the City of Zagreb and other areas of Croatia, then it must certainly be said that this government is much better equipped with hardships than the former government, let us just remember, for example. floods in Gunya. In addition to all the challenges this government has, this government has worked to defend citizens' standards by adapting external global conditions, and we see for ourselves what is happening today to Croatian conditions and standards of our citizens, the price of electricity has not been raised, the gas has not been raised, of course we will see what happens this spring. Let's just remember that some have not recognized the importance of the LNG terminal project, and whose benefit we see in fact now. And finally, let's say, who then brought a good assessment and spent the project all the way. In addition to all these challenges, this government is working in parallel and consistent with the objectives and programmes outlined, given other important areas such as demographics and security. The fact is that demographics are an existential question, an alarming question for decades, not yesterday. We know that the main cause is negative natural growth. This government has tackled both this problem and other measures, and has introduced a measure of incentives for returnees, and will remain focused on future measures. And finally a matter of security. With the establishment and continued development of the Homeland Security System, we want to strengthen the resilience of the entire society and the state and thus actively contribute to the overall security of the EU and NATO. Therefore, the acquisition of fighter aircraft also contributes to improving the security of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the stability of this part of Europe. [[Intruder: Time.]] Especially keeping in. to see the political security situation in Europe and in the world in general. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84308	On behalf of the rapporteur, finally respected Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my honor and pleasure on behalf of my Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to direct you here, to give you the final word, but my colleague Bauk, thank you, you really inspired me and encouraged me with a constructive approach. I found the most fancy Smail aga masa, followed by Bauk, followed by the Turks ini. Here is the report on meetings of the European Council where colleagues and colleagues have indeed made great efforts to enable distinguished representatives, representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to make reading as easy and transparent as possible. It was hundreds, not just hundreds, but thousands of pages. And unfortunately, this report was the least spoken of. And in it, in fact, everything, chronology, chronology is actually our work, executive authorities, the responsibility of prime ministers, prime ministers at meetings. If they seemed to me, I don't have that feeling, that there was more of this maybe insight into the complete documentation I think a more quality debate would be. However, it unfortunately turned into a very low one, in fact, showed a low culture of dialogue, and included mainly within the political theme that was presented today and the possibility of asking questions to ministers in the current hour. That opportunity was missed, and it was really an opportunity because I saw it here, and I also recorded it when we talk about energy, when we talk about transport infrastructure, there were really working topics that, for example, health care. Health care, health care, health care and future certificates, EU common policy, vaccination, etc. I'm sorry there aren't any others here, but here you are a little bit, thank you, but I think it would be good to say no matter what you have, but I'm getting messages that Croatian viewers are interested in, so I think we should share this experience and this report and actually talk about the successes of governments that are obviously not sufficiently recognized, are not valorised enough, are not enough to recognize. He'd still talk a little bit about them. I'm saying I'm sorry that there's no Mr. Grmoya had quite another narrative, which I'm very sorry, he even entered into conflict, said unpleasant words that I would never say anywhere and, and at no time, so sad fact, of course it's the right of Croatian voters to choose, but my profile would never have been someone who so jumped into the constituency benches, whether it was by chance and without clear competence in terms of the state. Because as far as I've heard and listened to these lately, and Mr. Grmoy's actually working on diphrase all of those institutions, to demeaning the work of all institutions, here I would just count the DORH so let's say the issue of the national headquarters when it comes to the pandemic, when it comes to the university, when it comes to the government, all institutions are actually the subject of his interest. I think that there should be trust in institutions, and of course when elections are then if we want to replace institutions with new ones, then we should work on making concrete proposals and quality projects, it seems to me that we can all contribute together. The opposition does not mean criticism but to tell you sorry, you have a dirty tie, for example. So it's also one contribution to fixing something for the better. Here it was, now I wouldn't go so much, there's a little time in detail, but I could turn back actually see that there was enough about BiH. If someone really works on stability and functionality means BiH as our neighbouring country of Croatia, which is a member of the most important international organisation, NATO member, the EU, if someone cares, it is certainly Croatia and if it were to ask Croatia, then BiH would already be a member of the EU tomorrow. And I am just stressing the importance that the conclusions reached by the General Affairs Council on December 14th never looked better because we have also fought for the conclusions to speak about the institutional mechanisms established by the Dayton-Paris Agreement, that they are talking about the need to remove all forms of discrimination, so the Croatian people as a constituent, so to be involved, so it is now discriminated against and, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH and the European Court of Human Rights. When we're talking about here someone's been saying the same about, I'm happy I think my colleague Pavlichek, I think it's very bad in public interpreted. My wife and I lived in Switzerland, we had extremely good salaries and we could still live in Switzerland today, but we, love for Croatia prevailed, there was '91. The year we actually went back to one uncertainty and uncertainty. I don't think there's anything he can do to make up for his love for the country and for the Croatian people. And about where I have my cousins, I have them from Australia, America, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, etc. and when I was recently visiting Canada, and also the US in Chicago, I have a cousin who yearns for Croatia and we work on it, we work on it, the government is working to enable not only the return of those who have gone but also generations of second, third generation who have love over their parents and want to move into Croatia. And we will certainly work to ensure the relevant projects, it must, of course, be very serious, we are talking about, when it comes to their life, including, their integration into Croatian society, business, therefore social stability, all of this is actually included in their, their return, or their immigration into the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we are happy, therefore, that love prevails, and it is not a question of whether anyone in Croatia thinks that one can live. This is exactly what the prime minister was talking about the other day in the interview that here is and for 1,800 EUR, Croatia's GDP per per capital, per capita, is increased almost EUR 15,000, and that the lowest salary is 3,700 kuna. Of course there have been a lot of speeches here, Mr. Grbin talked about energy, about the solidarity fund, Schengen when, Schengen, we have met all the conditions when it comes to the assessment of the European Commission twice, the European Parliament resolution should be routine, the question now is how to coordinate it, so make a political decision at the level of the European Council of Member States because there is also Bulgaria and Romania waiting much, much longer than we are. What surprised me, Mr. Grbin, right in the finals said that the influence of Andrej Plenkovic was that of the great Andrej Plenkovic in Brussels. I do not know if he, how he can measure his influence, will of course not Andrej Plenkovic here in Zagreb hik Rodus hik salta but is in Brussels where it is necessary and where it is necessary. And the impact this one has and reflects is, in fact, reflected through all those funds and all those billions that we have received for the Solidarity Fund and for the funds further strengthened in the multi-annual financial framework. Of course he also spoke in return to power, but I'm sure he won't come to power unless he's able to still preserve party unity then it's hard to actually preserve the state, but of course we all want happiness in the elections that will be democratic again. He said something like that, Mr. Dretar. Mr Glavasevic said this at some point that Croatia's successes were not Croatia's successes, so Alkar Plenki said in nothing, but I would say that Alkar Plenki is in srid. We haven't actually been able to talk here about declaring an exclusive economic belt, just remember what the debate was like here in December, so in January, so in February when we received it and now nobody's talking about it anymore, and we actually achieved the highest level of legal protection of the Adriatic Sea, and we were still accused of doing it for Italy, and Italy hasn't done it yet. And then we did a great job, a great job diplomaticly along with our friendly neighbouring Slovenia and, of course, Italy. And of course also our solidarity when it comes to donations of vaccines against Covid disease, but no one has even thought to talk about the advantages of abolishing visas for the United States, which is actually a major achievement after 30 years, about the strategic partnership with France no one said that for the first time in the history of free Croatia was visited by the French President, there are other multilateral meetings that have nothing to do with the official visit, etc. So it's just one of the successes, and when, I don't know, someone also mentioned the Conference of the Future of Europe, that we're working on, on Friday we have in Pula the Conference of the Future of Europe teaching on the one in Dubrovnik and in Zadar where we involved students, high school students, in Pula we will also have civil society, NGOs, and will be with me and my colleague Greek Minister Nikos Dendias, so that's also the same information here and again we'll have a conference somewhere in Slavonia, we'll see when and somewhere in early March also in Mostar. Participation in the strategic compass, which we are among the initiators, is a very important and ambitious project when it comes to defence and security, as we would like, of course, to focus these various initiatives on security, in the area of environmental and defence in the EU over the next 10 years. There is a lot of it and, of course, when it comes to investment for enlargement in the EU, there is, as I have already said several times, a country that cares most about enlargement, but of course all countries must meet the difficult way of meeting criteria and criteria. Therefore, the imputation of Mr. Grumoja as far as Serbia is concerned, and so on, that kind of politics has no space for me to think about. Of course, it's about Serbia when it comes to that 4th. A cluster that has nothing to do with the other, with the other of course to get to the hardest and we always point out that you can, but there is a rule of law, there is a process of war crimes, but above all a response to 1858 missing and of course minority rights, minority rights, a return of Ahrivic material, compensation of campers. We point it out everywhere, we point it out everywhere, so I ask you to keep it all in check and that when it's being criticized, or when it's about to get some respect, then you can't go over the facts, so you can't talk about feelings, you can talk about it, but if we're here in the assembly, in the legislative body legitimately, then I think we need to hear the arguments of our own, and the arguments are on our side, on the side of this government. I'm saying here somehow, I'm saddened by this one state, and in fact this one level of debate or, or criticism, I can't tell everyone, but this part of the opposition that seems to me to be quite destructive, which is focused, there is a demand for every opportunity of course to harm the government, to degrade the government's successes in fact, and that it doesn't want to understand that the future of the Republic is being damaged, that our children's future is being damaged, because it's precisely our children who are so proactive and European politics that they will actually be encouraged to inherit what we want to leave them, and we certainly don't want to leave them the burden, but we want to leave them with a better state, the more advanced state. We did it after 30. We can now say that we have achieved a great deal and our results are measurable and I am very proud personally and all the members of the government and the Prime Minister are right on, on these achievements where we get congratulations by withdrawing money from the eu funds and only, those only, those who do not love this country can, therefore, perform with such perhaps tonality and rhetoric the one that I have heard today and in a permanent manner I have been exposed to. No constructive perhaps positive I would say a growing word that would go this way in some positive, so I can't say any of them, there was this one, and here you have stayed here, clearly that some, some of the same colleagues and colleagues listen, there have been some constructive proposals, listen to this one in their offices, so hear the solutions really to us who really very seriously and lovingly work that we don't, of course, have time to deal with any situations that would now be this situation for speculation and any planting. I hope, of course, that the solution is really here and we believe in miracles as I did mentioned was Mr. Grumo that he, I believe, will be in use, he is a young man and he is well working, working on himself, comparing and using opportunities because Parliament gives indeed and allows contacts with other colleagues and colleagues. Parliamentary diplomacy can do very much, and if we are together together, then we can act together and then we can do and achieve great results. I hope that my colleague Rasudiæ will also justify the salary he receives, and of course when he shows some brighter, healthier and finally realistic picture of the state of work of the government and that he actually listens to exactly what we are talking about. So I see here everything we say that either you don't want to hear it or you don't want to believe it or I don't know what it is, what else it is. But speaking of these quotes, everyone quotes someone and Hegel, and the best is actually common folk wisdom, but it seems to me that there may be part of the opposition being deceived, so that it does not act constructively or that it may act as a group of small people who may show only or want to show just hate as I have heard from MP Vidovic Kristo. I couldn't believe the amount of this attack on the government and on all the ministers. One Danish theologian told Kierkegaard Soren that there are two ways to be deceived. One is to believe in what is not true, and the other is to refuse to believe what is. Thank you very much, and I hope to see you again in the moments of our success. It is never ideal in life, but I think that efforts should be honored, that the achievements that are based on facts, on hard work, on patriotism, on the stakes in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens, should be recognised so that our country is as good as possible, more socially stable and more prosperous and that its reputation is also in the world as it is. Because when I go out, you know, I always hear a lot about our country, about the Republic of Croatia, about Croatia and our people who are welcome, who are good, and it makes me very happy. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-19-0.u84310	Thank you, Minister and Associates. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 218. Good night! The session was interrupted at 21.35 p.m.
