ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u82948	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in a few minutes there will be a debate on amendments to the Law on Professional Education since I don't have my own club here I will take this opportunity and I will speak in advance of this subject as a small introduction because it is a free speech. 6 years ago, a protest took place in Ban Josip Jelačić Square, which was a protest that we all forgot, which was a protest against, or for, a pardon for the reform of Kurikula, or here it is said Kurikula. And that's interesting how here we have this one story that was six years ago and five years ago and even four years ago was one of the main topics in the Croatian Parliament, and today no one is mentioned anymore. Today.../incomprehensible/... these MPs who were first elected to the Croatian Parliament have no idea what an expert working group is, what a Kurikulum is as you say I will say Croatian Kurikul. And how much the first one was convicted of failure actually speaks only the name of the plan and the program of teaching, which is called one word that is not Croatian as well as in the Croatian standard language where the Latin word is actually used as Croatian instead of saying Kurikulum is called Kurikulum. It was at the time of Minister Šustar, and then Pavo Barisic came and was replaced by Minister Divjak because of the alleged de facto copying of some footnote. I predicted she'd go back in history and leave. And what is left of her, or after her? Some kind of famous digitization, since here I have children at that school age since that digitization I haven't heard or seen anything. As far as information is concerned, nothing either. As for the so-called so-called. Schools for life, nothing. So, it's just all this project that Minister Divjak's been running and he's got nothing on him. Today is God's thanks to this new Minister Fuchs and I hope that through these changes of law things will change. What I want to point out here is, and that's a constant drop in the number of our schoolboys, so in the last nine years that number has fallen by nearly 60 grand, we're somewhere under 450 thousand schoolboys today, and we had 9 years ago over 510 thousand schoolboys. And in the end, we can ask ourselves who we do all that for when we're soon and we're not going to have kids at all, or we're going to have very few. There's one more thing I have to say here, and it's very important, we often have a mantra that's probably going to say for this pay phone and from the bench, we don't have a bad education system, we have a good education system. We always have to work on that update, we always need to modernise it a little bit, upgrade it, but our education system is good because if we look at the results of our students who are doing it anywhere in the world, at any university, at any university, we'll see that these are great results, and on the other hand, if we have a bad education system, then why Western Europe with higher salaries so much is looking for our staff, and that's the big problem that I've repeatedly pointed out and I'm going to point out now. So I'm not against EU membership, but we need to be clear here. We pay EU membership fees, we buy products coming from the EU, and we give the EU the most precious, these are our people we have educated. It's so-called. This brain drain and we get nothing in return, and I think it's something that we have to talk about, and I'm even going to say that we should ask the EU for some satisfaction, some financial satisfaction because our educated people who have been educated in allegedly bad, I'm going to tell a good education system go away to build some other countries like this. Germany. So from this place I call on the representatives of the ministry who will soon come to correct one bad thing and that if the reform of the curical, or that curricula still exists, the question is whether there is any more, let them call it a curricula, not a false word that does not conform to the Croatian standard language, which is a curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u82990	Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Bartulic, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u82991	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here at the outset would refer to this presentation by colleagues Bačić, so with much of what he said I agree. So there are clear double standards in public space. As for the left, I think we could talk a long time about hypocritical behavior and what the same principles don't apply to others as well as to them. So they have a free pass, one excuse like you said is enough. However, as far as fundamental rights are concerned, it certainly states that freedom of speech is a fundamental right, but something still precedes that right to life, if we are not alive, does not mean much to us, and it is worth it from conception. So that's where people should be consistent when they talk about human rights. But I'm going to talk a little bit about the broader context of what's going on in the world but on this lead you've been saying. So, the pandemic has revealed a lot that stands beneath the surface that comes out and people can see more clearly how certain things work and even in the media space. These days, a country has actually suspended the fundamental rights of people, the blow is headed towards peaceful protesters who are rebelling against Covid measures, not about Poland or Hungary, but about one remote country in Canada. So, we all have, I've been in that country a lot of the experience of Anglo-Saxon democracies, but now things are going kind of the other way and radically. So we actually have the introduction of tyranny to this extent that peaceful protesters with new government powers can freeze bank accounts and so forth. So they are treated in the same way as members of Al-Qaeda. So it's a state now in Canada crodfunding various opportunities to raise money to help these people now will be directly under the control of Canadian authorities and can stop anything they don't like. Here we are to that point. So it's not done in Hungary or Poland that are constantly demonized as anti-democratic authorities, it's happening in Canada, and the whole world can observe what's happening in front of our eyes. So we have very many examples of double standards. I would say that in some way the social networking and censorship that exists, which is mass-implemented is the same symptom of this condition. So, no, it's not possible to read various opinions that are similar to certain fact-checkers and others that actually represent Internet police. And I think that this should stop, so that people can make good, so that people and parents can make the right decisions must have access and the right to information, objective information. Much of what was considered a misinformation 6 months or a year ago today is thought to be a majorstream opinion and even in line with reality. Thus, the situation and in science is changing, and we see that certain people who abuse their powers daily to our harm are having difficulty adapting to the situation. I think we should really watch this and show it out and call it a real name. So we are actually surrounded by one situation of freedom, limited freedom and in the name of democracy is actually reducing the space of expression of opinion and the like, and when someone insults on the other, on the left is enough one symbolic excuse to move on. It is not necessary to resign, the mayor of Split should not stay away from his co-worker but rather mention that he needs therapy to contain his temperament and so on. So the Homeland Movement will continue to point to these phenomena and we will seek the same standards and principles that apply to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83045	Thank you very much. We're going to another debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83046	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This year, there are very important elections in our neighbouring countries. One is in BiH where the election law has been under discussion for months, i.e. allowing Croats to choose and choose their representatives in the BiH presidency. Other elections to be held and are also extremely important for the Republic of Croatia are elections in the Republic of Serbia for the National Assembly and for the president of the state. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was disbanded yesterday, and elections were scheduled for April 3rd. But what will change after these elections as regards the status of the Croatian national minority in Serbia? One big nothing. He will likely not have his legitimate representative in the National Assembly again. In fact, the position of Croats in the political situation in the Republic of Serbia has been on the very sidelines of society for years. The Croats are still in '91. There were about 106,000 people living in the Republic of Serbia somewhere. Today, that number fell to only 57,000. It should be noted that some 17,000 Serbian citizens are declared Bunjeci, an artificially created nation only in the Republic of Serbia with the aim of further tickling up Croatian national beings. It should be noted that the number of Croats in 30 years fell 50% in a country where there was no war, in a state where there was no balvana revolution, in a country where no Croats asked for secession or its autonomy, the number of Croats fell drastically. Unfortunately, the situation of Croats has deteriorated particularly in the last 12 months. Namely, in the centre and centre of the activities of the Bunjevac Croats in Subotica several months ago, the language of the Bunjevac language was artificially spoken as an official language despite numerous protests by both the Republic of Croatia and local Croats, the language remains in force. Also, several months ago in official textbooks for elementary school in the Republic of Serbia, the existence of Croatian language as a separate language will not exist. But what hurts the Croats most in Serbia and Vojvodina is that they do not have their own representation in both local and regional, and at the state levels of the Republic of Serbia. Despite an agreement signed in 2004 between the Republic of Croatia and the then state of Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian national minority in Serbia-Montenegro and of the Serb and Montenegrin national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. A little bit of that agreement has been realised. In fact, the Croatian side has respected a large part of this agreement, in particular Article 9 which says that party signatories are obliged to enable representation of members of national minorities both at local, regional, and state levels, at representative bodies, as in the executive government. We in the Republic of Croatia today have three representatives of the Serb community in the Croatian Parliament who are elected on a separate list. We have a vice-president from the Serb community. We have 10 mayors from the Serb community. We have 40 commanders, mayor and mayors guaranteed for the Serb community. We have several hundred councilmen in municipal, city councils and county assemblies guaranteed for the Serb community. Let's take a look at what Croats have in Serbia? Number of guaranteed deputies in the National Assembly of Zero. Number of guaranteed representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia zero. Number of guaranteed MPs in the province government zero. Number of MPs or MPs guaranteed in the province's House of Zero. The number of mayors zero. Number of guaranteed mayors zero. Number of guaranteed municipal and city councilmen zero. We only have two councilmen in two municipalities in Vojvodina where they fought thanks to the pre-election coalitions with other related parties. This is the defeat of Croatian diplomacy, this is the defeat of Croatian foreign policy. And it is high time we started the offensive diplomaticly to get the same rights that Croatians have, primarily, representatives of the Serb community, political rights in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83109	Let's move on. It is now up to the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives to speak to the esteemed colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83110	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Three months ago, the Social Democrats in a November club warned about the arrival of major inflation. This was referred to by all trends, energy growth, food prices and forecasts of different world and European institutions. At that time, the problem from the government was deeply underrated and only bowed their hands, and inflation today is a reality that affected all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as the economy. We from the Social Democrats Club even a month ago have proposed several intervention measures to fight to preserve the standard of living of our citizens. Let's remind ourselves, first of all, we suggested that the prices of a basket of basic life supplies be frozen at the level of the agreed price protected. Why is this a much more effective measure than reducing VAT to some food products? First, because we already had a reduction in VAT on meat and on vegetables to 13%, the price of food not only did it cost it, it was collected, and the extra profit was kept by the owners of foreign malls. Secondly, is the state able to control the prices of millions of products on the shelves of foreign trade chains? The answer isn't. So the state isn't able to control it, it's not able to watch who cut it, and who hasn't cut the price it's clear to everyone because these data appear every day in all different media outlets. That's why we suggest so-called. A price scoreboard for a single basket of basic life supplies so that the state can easily control who put down and who hasn't put down the prices. Many countries in the EU, but also in the region, have this measure. For example, in the Hungarian price of sugar, flour, sunflower oil, pork butt, chicken breasts and milk and prices were frozen at the level they were at last October due to the purchase. Another measure instead of reducing VAT to food that traders will use for their extra profit because food will not cheapen this we have already seen we suggest raising the non-taxable part of income from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna. The measure will allow all of Croatia's salaries to rise by nearly 300 kuna, which will allow at least partial mitigation of the inflation impact on citizens' standards. It is very simple, rather than allowing the government to reduce VAT extra profit to traders, we suggest that this money be directed into an increase in wages to 300 kuna by raising the untaxable share of income from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna. Thirdly, we also suggested last week that the most vulnerable groups, such as pensioners with small pensions, social welfare users, cover the unemployed with higher electricity and gas costs. We also proposed that the VAT drop from 25 to 5% for electricity and gas because it did not matter if the payment card came to 120 or 100 kuna, and some government announcements about VAT reduction are going in that direction and we can accept it, but we can neither accept that the government is doing anything about exploiting Croatian oil fields by foreign owners, by foreign companies. We therefore once again warn and propose to redefine concessions on oil and gas, that the state share profits with the beneficiary of the concession in this case with Ina Mol, and that profit from this rapid rise in oil and gas prices in foreign markets should be directed to some of that profit as aid to affected entrepreneurs due to the energy crisis. So it's clear to all of us that VAT for entrepreneurs is a transitional item, that they absolutely don't have any benefits from VAT cuts, and in this way they might be able to help them. I would like to remind you that in 2008, the price of barrels reached $140 in the world market, the price of gasoline was below 10 kuna, today the price of barrels is $90, the price of gasoline is 12 kuna. What's changed? Only the thick and high margins of foreign oil companies operating in Croatia, the two largest, Mol Ina and Petrol, which together account for 75% of the markets. According to EU law, such a concentration is prohibited, but whoever tolerates it, the Agency for the Protection of Competition under the direct control of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately does nothing about it. So, for years, the government has tolerated the astronomical margins that determine 2 companies especially if these foreign owners are known to exploit Croatian gas and oil for small money or for peanuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83177	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, thank you. We are going to the last, 11th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS, a colleague of Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83178	As long as HDZ is in power, this robbed, devastated and evicted Croatia has no chance of becoming the country it should be. It's been two years too long, and the question is what will the next election bring us election engineering that we've seen so many times already. For a while now, I've been following how little by little, and then more and more the poison is poured, repeating in public space how the opposition is weak, how there is no leader, how all if HDZ in the next election and lost power, so far mentioned, so look, dear people, is there anyone else who could lead Croatia better than HDZ? The point of letting go of such a thesis is to further discourage, to demotize, to push citizens into even deeper apathy and even greater electoral abstinence because it's the only way HDZ creates conditions for itself to win again, but this time with less than 16% of voter support with how it holds us hostage to its corrupt intentions and bad policies, and here's how to avoid that trap, here's what we do. First of all, let us reject the claim that Croatia's fate depends exclusively on political parties and let us stop waiting for a new political Messiah to appear or that we are scheduled by the ministries for a slightly better political elite. We will be on a good path, if we start to change Croatia outside the sphere of political action immediately and now, and I will use as many of my speeches as I can to invite and encourage all those who have in their hands the power to do something about it. Media, whistles, professionals in different professions, various ordinary citizens, all but brave people. Among those whom I will address today are the judges. I invite them to respond to the letter and questionnaire sent to them by the recently elected Supreme Court President Radovan Dobronic, and here's why. Well, first of all, because he does what he does in his program and announces, and for what we have given him in HS support by lifting our hands. On the other hand, Radovan Dobronic is an anti-attack, a drug, the best defence against the political objections of HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic over the independence of the judiciary. With a stable political majority, further strengthened by the new generation of chips, the HDZ as a political party convicted of corruption has recently carried out a mini reform of the judiciary within which it designed to carry out security periodic checks against judges by the Security Intelligence Agency, or SOA, which is in the hands of HDZ. Infringed trust in the judiciary is due first of all to the judges and only they can and therefore I give full support to the actions of the President of the Supreme Court Radovan Dobronic because the most important part of the judicial reform is the establishment of integrity in the judicial order and finally at the head of the judicial authority we have a person who is aware of it and is not enough to have a moral judge at the top of the judicial authority, it is necessary to establish the integrity of the whole. And those questions that are asked by this questionnaire should become part of everyday life, and the answers should be public and better in the hands of the public than in the hands of the SOA that will manipulate them, of course, for the needs of the HDZ. These issues are not constitutional, do not go beyond the scope of the power of action and responsibility of the President of the Supreme Court in carrying out his tasks of proper management of the judiciary and I hope that the judges will understand the responsibility of this moment and hope that they will understand their role and their power and if they do so, if they start to change the perception of the judiciary, if they establish rules of order between themselves and if they establish criteria to judge who may be one of them, and to whom there really is no place in the judicial order, then in the same way we will be able to start cleaning Croatia from within and in all other spheres of action. And when we start doing that, when Croatia starts to change on the inside, when morality becomes something that is important, when we have transparency that is real, and not hyphenated, until the next elections, HDZ will fall off like some dried nipple. It'll disappear like a virus the system fought against inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83252	We're moving to 9. The debate, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, will be addressed by a respected colleague, Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83253	Thank you. Here, I am pleased with my colleague Zekanovic that you have remembered the protest, I will tell you what he called it, Croatia can be better, but unfortunately Croatia cannot do better with this same authority that we have since then, and because, from the curricula reform or whatever you want to call it, the rest is unfortunately only a letter on paper because this government, and the one that preceded it, is actually the authority of continuity, had neither the will nor the courage to transform the education system that would suit the needs of the 21st century. But it's okay. Today I'm going to talk about something else, it's about this government's tax policy and the latest actual developments and coups on citizens who have a flat-rate trade, as well as those citizens who live abroad by the IRS. You've seen it in the papers, so the IRS has set out to punish the so-called IRS. The cobwebs, they're the ones who make up to a maximum of 300,000 kuna a year. Many of them are actually in lower levels of profit and are only employed. Taxes therefore, if these persons have one client who has paid them more than 50% of the income, so you can have 10 clients, but 1 participates in more than 50% of your incomes, so it can declare it a hidden employment and charge you all taxes and contributions that you would have to pay to be employed by the employer, so it's a non-permanent work. Now, here on this example, as well as the examples of people who went outside Croatia and made income out of Croatia, we see a modus operand of this government that we can sum up in bait, and I'll nail you. So, the cobwebs, how the cobwebs came to be. Most of them so that the same government gave them incentives from 50,000 kunas for self-employment, which people used, especially after the crisis when they lost their jobs, started some of their own business to self-employed, justified those funds, so they're doing business, here, for 5.6 years, they don't have to pay the state for them, they don't have to pay for them, they pay for it themselves, but now the state comes and suddenly remembered that they're actually doing undercover employment. The fact is, it's a fact that really some cobwebs work through that model, and that they might actually be employed by someone with their clients, the truth. But why does the state care? Why does the state even worry about whether someone's income comes from independent work or out of work? Why would they care? Well, she cares because she has a crazy tax system. There is a tax system in which the most tax and contributions, in particular contributions, are paid by workers who live on their own, so they are employed by their employer. A little less tax is taxed and contributions are paid by those who live on their own labour, so whether they are co-workers, whether they are ordinary crafts, whether they have their own companies, and almost nothing is paid by those who live on capital and property. It's the system you built. So now in that system you're chasing those who live off their work, either on their own or on their own, to pay more taxes and more contributions so that those who live on capital and property can, of course, make a living in such a way that, if they earn a million gross, they'll have 900 thousand nets because they'll pay 10% of the dividend tax, and someone who lives on their own working in a craft will, for example, pay far more, and someone who lives off their own labour will pay for all of them. It's the system you built. And for that reason, this government behaves the way I see it behaves as it does in a cartoon about a bird racer. It attracts people, lures them into something with 50,000 kunas or those that went out of Croatia with 200, and then knelts on the head and takes everything she gave and three times more. And we need to put an end to that tax policy. When we suggested it, you of course refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83330	We're going to the third position, and that's MOST's Club of Representatives and a respected colleague, Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83331	As of today, colleagues and colleagues have to do everything legally. You know whose statement that was? That was Tomislav Coric's statement the first day he came and became minister. Today everything has to be done by law. Today Croatia is witnessing a new affair. What USKOK suspects is that investors for the wind farm did not meet all the conditions, that the ministry approved the project, and estimated damages of 1.9 billion kuna. And if this is confirmed it will be one of the biggest affairs in Croatia's history. As of today, everything has to be done by law. The former assistant of the same minister who said this epic sentence on the first day of his term is saying that I could bring the public closer to knowing what was going on says that the same minister called him into the room, that he was very precisely quoted by the man asking him who was doing this memo, who was doing this draft opinion, to free himself from all other affairs of the man that he could easily draw up that draft opinion, that he would like it to be positive for investors, to send him an electronic draft of opinion before being sent to the public. Covered in this affair, the Minister of Energy, his assistants, the President of the Croatian Forests Administration, former president or member of the HER Administration, assistants, state secretary in other agriculture ministries, etc. etc. How much of the fungi in Croatia today are related to corruption I think enough tells you the number of affairs, the intensity of these affairs over time, the number of players now in these affairs, the amount of which is being handled to damage the budget of the Republic of Croatia, that they have damaged directly people in Croatia. And what you can see is that it increases every day. The number of political actors involved in these affairs is increasing every day. Number of ministries, number of legal persons. I don't know if it's been a week in the last year that ruling has failed to produce at least one affair. After all, people get fed up, they've had enough. They don't want to hear about affairs anymore. And it's a signal to you that you're going even stronger, so it's not worth a million or ten million anymore, now we've come to nearly 2 billion kunas. My question is just how long? How long do you think people in Croatia will suffer? Because what's happening honestly is perverse, so it's getting perverse. While people in Croatia are struggling to connect end-to-end, financially in the month because they are dramatically abnormally increasing the cost of living in which you also participate in both indirectly and directly, directly through FINA because you have absolutely no hearing and they have no new attachments, indirectly because you don't care because you should have acted much earlier on these issues and the price of energy costs and everything. In all this you use it as an opportunity to directly damage the state budget and create affairs and do nothing about it. And then forgive me when you look at people who don't know how to connect the moon with the moon and what you produce every day that's perverse, become aware of it. And what's the problem with this same minister, so he's not just involved in the affair, he's incompetent. That same man couldn't tell what the cost of energy would be, he called us catastrophes. Today's speech doesn't know what hit him, and that's why we're going to initiate impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83402	The 10th debate of the SDP advocates' club and respected colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83403	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is not a fact that inflation in Croatia is the highest in the past 9 years as it is notorious and the fact that unlike many European countries, Croatia is in a rather invisible position, because most of our consumer baskets actually make energy and food products, which is unfortunately logical because we know that we are a country with below average personal income per capita. Equally notorious is the fact that the main objectives of economic and economic measures at the time of inflation should be aimed at protecting citizens from poverty, especially pensioners and socially-needed people on the poverty line, and further reducing food dependence, reducing dependence on energy imports and ensuring sufficient energy at an acceptable price for citizens and the economy. However, while other European countries began to wake up at the end of last year, they responded to the challenges of an inflation impact on their population, our government, meanwhile, analysed, slept, unresponsive. Minister Ćorić, on the other hand, instead of dealing with some things that should make life easier for Croatian citizens, he dealt with handling affairs in order to make energy policy more difficult for them and, in some ways, indirectly and increase this impact. And today, noble Prime Minister Plenkovic announces, here at 10 o'clock, that he will present a package of measures for Croatian citizens and that the package of measures will be comprehensive. And how can the package of measures be comprehensive if it does not include pensioners who are one of the most endangered social groups? How the package of measures can be comprehensive if it neglects 700,000 pensioners who receive pensions of less than three thousand kunas, not a small number of them actually receive less than the currently defined poverty threshold, which is 2927 kuna. Therefore, we appeal once again to the Government of the Republic of Croatia immediately bring one long-term and one short-term measure to make life easier for Croatian pensioners. The short-term measure we have been proposing for the past two weeks has been the introduction of an inflationary supplement for pensioners, which would actually be money support to mitigate the effects of the inflation crisis on the economic situation of pensioners. This measure would cover all pensioners who made pensions in the Republic of Croatia under the compulsory pension scheme and who have residence in the Republic of Croatia whose pension is less than 4000 kuna. With this measure, we would include about 800,000 pensioners, and the total amount would be about 650 to 700 million kuna. He's got those funds. Because when we see the only one profiting from this inflation is a country that collects bigger taxes. If the revenues are higher on the basis of exactly three to four billion taxes, then we can pay back one good part of the people who pay these taxes on such expensive foods, and one of those most vulnerable are just pensioners. This inflationary supplement would be based on 4 categories, in a way that pensioners who receive up to 1500 kuna would receive the amount of cash support of 1200 kuna by payment within six months. Those who receive pensions from 1500 to 2000 kuna would receive financial support, i.e. from 1000 kuna, those from 2000 to 3000 kuna and those with pensions ranging from 3000 to 4000 kuna. Another long-term measure that needs to be taken at the moment is the harmonisation of pensions with inflation. The SDP believes that the pension harmonisation model is not sustainable for two reasons, as it does not allow the purchase power of pensioners at the time of inflation and does not allow pension growth to follow the growth of wages that are low anyway. At the time of inflation when the prices of those products most used by pensioners are rising, and since these products are represented in the consumer basket, we can even talk about retirement inflation. Our model means that we propose to take into account the 100% value of a more favourable index between the consumer price index and the nominal index of the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. This encourages the protection of purchasing power or preserves the existing share of the average pension in the average salary. These measures need to be taken urgently. And only in the end, for Mr. Coric. More than a year ago, we asked for the recall of Coric. HDZ said no. Now it turns out he's very involved in a wind power plant affair. And that's why it's time for citizens to go amongst other things and collect electricity, and it's time to go. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83488	We are going to the fourth debate of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored counterpart Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83489	Thank you. I will begin this statement with a quote: "We will fight every form of intimidation and attack against journalists, activists and citizens any attempt to limit freedom of speech, and in Croatia we witness almost daily. We find it unacceptable, so we will work on a procedure, i.e. legal changes that would allow such lawsuits at all." Freedom of speech is the cornerstone of every democratic society and the first line of defence of all other freedoms. In addition to believing that open public debate on any topic has no alternative history teaches us that persecuting and silence of non-instincts makes society an intellectual and economically poor. I think everyone would sign a statement like this. This statement was made by Marijana Puljak, our colleague, the wife of the mayor of Split Ivica Puljak on behalf of the club Puljak-Orešković-Mrak Taritas. And after that and such moralization, this very same colleague, Marijana Puljak, the wife of the mayor of Split Ivica Puljak, first ignores the event, and then publicly defends the mayor of the city of Split and his political partner, Bojan Ivosevic, after threatening the journalist of the Free Dalmatia, to quote: "drink blood". It is this club and those moral verticals that must have been sent to Croatia to correct all the wrong social anomalies that created this society and the Republic of Croatia such as it and Dalia Oreshkovic consider such a statement and for such behaviour that no political sanctions are required. He also suggests that his colleague apologize for what he did, that he now withdraws a little bit in the media silence, that he go to some workshop that we don't know exactly what the workshop is and that he thinks about what in his kindergarten aunts don't send their children into the corner anymore, but send a little bit to think. To make the case more grotesque, the bloodbath was promised by a man who's in court at the moment because an unusually similar bully has threatened to rip his throat out. Ivosevic, can you do it poorer? How low a number of people must fall to defend themselves with a lawsuit to defend their endangered nuggets to a numbering fantasy where the blood of a journalist is heartbroken, I quote Free Dalmatia. To sum up the events of the last week in the town of Split, we can come to a simple conclusion. If, for example, someone from the left goes to assign a city area lease and thereby damage the city's company for some 50,000 kuna, an apology is sufficient, if so. If a person on the left gives notice to a disabled person, he threatens the city official to count his blood cells, i.e. That he'll be chopping up his family tree for nothing. If someone on the left is insulting, for example. The Jewish people relativize the holocaust, the great Hitler, only one excuse is enough. If someone on the left might threaten the press to drink their blood with an apology, it's enough to send that person to the workshop whatever it is. If someone on the left accuses the racketeering house of not even need an apology. Dear colleagues I'd like to, I'd like you all to ask yourself here from the Centre and to the right if you'd done anything of this or if you'd said something like that, here's a colleague I don't think we'd be talking about you here much because we wouldn't be dealing with politics anymore, but some sanctions, criminal, criminal I won't mention here that we'd be in court for a few years. But I don't suppose the same rules apply to all the moral verticals of society, and these are colleagues from the club Marijana Puljak, a colleague who is the wife of the mayor of Split, Ivica Puljak, her mentor, Dalia Oreshković. By them and by other moral verticals, this is not about any offense or criminal liability, and even here, such persons deserve no political sanctions. Is the problem here, the problem is in the center, the problem is in the right hand, there's no problem in them. So I'm curious in the end if you're okay with it, and I believe you agree with one wise person said that the left if, if there were no double standards, you probably wouldn't have any. And here I wonder my mayor Ivica Puljak and his wife Marijana Puljak until when the city of Split will be working a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83560	We are going to the sixth debate on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, a respected colleague, Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83561	Every day there's a scandal. The focus of the public is mainly the leadership of the CNB but not the general role and effects of the CNB and their policies but some as problematic individual practices. Despite those who have recently claimed that there has been an illegal settlement, illegal or illegal property benefit, whether there is actually any illegal advantage with Vice Governor Roman Šubić, whether it is illegal and in that it has 40 000 kuna salaries, whether it is illegal to buy from a vulture's agency to collect debts to a villa in Zagreb of 230 euros per metre square metre. It's all by law, it's all by law. There is no law that would prevent him from buying that villa, no law that would prevent him from having a lower salary, which would make him have a lower salary. That's all, by law. What we're always saying here and warning is not corruption, it's systemic and legal corruption. Systemic and legal corruption in capitalism refers to the position of the Croatian National Bank. What kind of a Croatian National Bank that does not take into account any democratic decision of the people, does not act in the interests of that people, and that bank should be renamed by colleagues and colleagues to the central bank because it is not a Croatian National Bank. It acts completely independently and professionally as it is well said beyond political control. The only interest of the national bank is to keep the monetary exchange rate policy stable, thus actually external devaluation and course management or possibly targeted course management in a way to increase exports and to increase the number of jobs being replaced by so-called. internal devaluation means reducing wages, reducing jobs as the only leverage for this competitiveness that we achieve on the periphery of Europe or the periphery of Europe as you will. So the CNB is deliberately disowning any development policies and providing conditions for a smooth transfer of values from the European semi-periphery towards the centre by protecting foreign banks and foreign banks, and domestic and foreign major creditors, and that's their only goal. Its objective is to maintain price stability, according to the CNB Act. Inflation is there, prices are wild, CNB is doing nothing, and it's not responding. But even if he did, it means in a frame like this it can't affect it differently than limit credit activity and re-produce recession, unemployment, reduce inflation, or cool the overheated economy. And yet inflation would be resolved in this way by increasing the spare army of the unemployed, by increasing the pressure on wage cuts, so again to the harm of the people. For such policies, and in favour of the elite allegedly independent CNB and its officials are highly paid. How is it possible that Vujčić and the management team can pay salaries and fees that greatly exceed all public sector incomes? How is it possible, therefore, that the material rights of CNB employees, about eight hundred of them are becoming significantly greater than the rest of the state and public sector, which is why the CNB is of course one of the best employers in the public sector? Well, because the CNB is independent, because the CNB is a state in the state. It is constitutionally and legally formally placed in the position of independence in relation to the elected political authority, not only in terms of monetary exchange policies it implements but also in terms of autonomous wage fixing. That's why the vice governor can have 40,000 kunas, and I'll remind you that it's a vice governor who's in charge of no less than the rehabilitation of credit institutions. The other day there was a vote here on the Credit Institution Restitution Act. This is a man who should in case credit institutions are to be rehabilitated, to maintain the interest of the people, not the believers of the foreign ones, and that is the man you think will surely work for the benefit of the people. In short, when we talk about the Shubici We should talk about Zrinski, it's a government that works for its own benefit. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83677	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. Please take your seats so we can start working. The first in line today on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the esteemed colleague Milan Vrkljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u83678	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. I will talk about the collapse of the energy system and ask two questions, how energy independent is the Republic of Croatia, and is there a responsibility of the government and the Parliament for Energy Policy of the Republic of Croatia? I would like to remind you that the HERA report last year on the 195th page clearly showed that domestic oil production in Croatia in the last few years is a couple of 620 thousand tonnes to only 90,000 tonnes, and that it is at the same time since '19. Until '20. The processing of domestic oil in our refineries has fallen from 20% to only 4%. The HERA report states that domestic gas production has been since '17. Until '20. dropped from 11000 gigawatts to only 6.5 thousand gigawatts and that Croatia has imported energy since '17. 17 thousand gigawatts hours to rise to 21 thousand gigawatts last year. In sum, oil is reduced domestic production, domestic refineries from 20% to 4%, gas is reduced production from 11000 gigawatts to only 6.5 thousand gigawatts, and at the same time HEP has an extra profit, an extra profit of 7 billion kuna. The question arises: is there an energy strategy for this government? In my opinion, I'd say no. And why is that? Because Sisak and Rijeka refineries have almost been shut down, our imports of foreign gas have increased enormously, HEP has achieved 7 billion kuna extra profits, and that money has been spent completely non-transparently and has not been invested in any form of alternative energy. At the same time, solar energy is the only thing we have and what we have in abundance, we don't use. The result of this crisis is an enormous increase in gas prices. I would like to remind you that in 2018, the EU Directive imposed on Croatia that the Parliament is the most important and only one in charge of controlling the work of HERA, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and that this is no longer the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The question arises as to what the Parliament did at this time when the energy crisis began, so it might ask a fellow member of the Tušek who is not here, he is the chairman of the Committee on Economy, who approved the increase in gas prices, whether it was approved by the Committee, whether HERA did it alone without consulting the Parliament? On the other hand, did Mr. Tušak invite Daniel Žimbroki, who is the president of HERA, and has he consulted him and has he informed him of the reasons for this increase in the price of gas? At the same time, it is favourable to the import of gas and to the import lobbys. Under also, there is a responsibility of the Parliament, I would ask the President of the Parliament, who has allowed HERA to approve an increase in gas prices, because as far as I know, I am here all the time, the Parliament has not approved it. Did you, President-in-Office of the Parliament get this personally without knowing the Parliament? Did.../incomprehensible/... did you personally invite Daniel Žimbroki to the Assembly to discuss with him what is the reason for the increase in this price of gas because the Parliament is this regulatory agency that, the regulatory mechanism that controls the Agency? I'd say there's one sloppyness and a silent guessing to certain centers of power. In the time of the greatest energy crisis, what does the Parliament do? The Assembly does not control HERA, which is legally binding since 2018, has no thematic session on the problem of energy, is being collapsed in this way by Parliament's sovereignty and is being eligible for stakeholders. It also favours the import lobby and creates the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia. In the five years of this government and this House, there is no energy strategy, the damage that has been caused by the economy and our fellow citizens have been crossing 20 billion kunas in the last five years. I'd say this model of governance was spent, that they needed new ideas, new policies. What should government and Parliament do? Let's say 7 billion kunas that were an extra profit from HEP had to be converted into a nuclear power plant like Slovenia's doing now, just for 7 billion kunas or solarizing Dalmatia and reducing imports of electricity by 30%. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91948	We've come to an end with the presentations and we're starting on the agenda. The first is the first point today: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, First Reading, P.Z. No. 249; The Proposer shall be the Government on the basis of Article 249. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now like to ask the representative of the proposer, the respected Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak, Paljak or Paljak? ... The thumbs give us an extra explanation, but you'll still have to wait a little while because we have a request for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91949	Dearly beloved, here we are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to consult again on the proposal of this Law. In fact, the fact is that one of the burning problems of our education system is the discrepancies of education with the labour market. This is particularly evident in crafts and professional professions because for the past 10 years we have a drastically smaller number of enrolled children and students in professional professions than the labour market requires. On the one hand, we have some shifts in this bill, i.e. complements, primarily as regards improving the practical part of the course, but the question arises what this government is really doing by motivating students to enroll in craft professions. Namely, while you are making this legislative proposal, at the same time the second ministry two months ago on its site informs the Croatian public that the scholarships for craft deficits are lifted, it is the Ministry of Economy. Namely, the scholarships used in 2019 and 2020 on the grounds that the funds of the Operational Plan have been spent and that the EU Commission has not yet given the green light for the Operational Plan from 2021 to 2027, thus leaving more than 8.5 thousand students without a scholarship. The question is whether or not they will receive it, and a good part of them may have, as a result of this financial stimulant, written down certain craftsmanship or professional professions. I find this really sad to leave the students and their families financially in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91950	The apartment is approved. Second request from my colleague, Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91951	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and RF in order to reconsider and to warn before we even go into this debate about this law on the dramatic state of education and education in general in the Republic of Croatia. We already know in advance that the proposed amendments to the law will be simple cosmetic nature, and what Croatia needs, which is the Croatian education system, is a fundamental change in overall education, especially vocational education. As a man who has been acting as the head man of the city administration unit, or the mayor of Samobor, I have come in the last 10 years in the position that craftsmen privates are looking for, so they come not to hire someone but to ask if you know someone who would do a certain job. So there is a chronic lack of professional, certain professions in Croatia, and what was worth going to where on the labour market they can achieve not only much better wages than much better authority among people. In Croatia, it was claimed that being a carpenter, being a locksmith, being a mechanic, that this is something below average, that this is something that is not unique, so it is not a good reputation in the society of these people and then happens to be in vocational schools, and among other things, I worked 7 years. In high school, so I know they enroll the worst elementary school students, so those who can't enroll in anything else. And in this way, by selecting the staff that are enrolled in vocational schools, we come up with one concentration circle of ever worse and worse results in the future, and I'm afraid this proposal will go in this direction alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91952	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we will proceed in accordance with the article. 293.b., so now I call again on the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education of Tomislav Paljak to present the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91953	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. You have before you a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education. In this presentation on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to explain the importance and reasons of the proposed amendments. Professional education plays an important role in the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, which is also the traditional commitment of Croatian students who finish primary education. In fact, Croatia has one of the largest proportions of secondary school students in Europe, 62.2% of data in 2018, while the EU average is 48.4%. Early school leaving rate in the Republic of Croatia 2018 It was slightly less than 3%, which is among the lowest averages of Member States, and the EU level average is 10.6%. These figures show that almost all Croatian students who have defined themselves for some of the vocational education programmes are also finishing these programmes. However, the recent research carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education together with the European Agency for the Development of Professional Education from 2016 to 2018. They showed certain weaknesses in the system. In the Republic of Croatia, 300 institutions for vocational education have an average of 400 students and implement an average of 10 different education programmes, which is extremely demanding in financial, human and organisational terms. Human resources requirements and requirements for a certain standard of equipment are expensive professional programmes, and vocational education institutions need significant support both in adapting and in changing the programme's offer. Many educational programmes, especially those three-year-olds, have become obsolete and are low attractive, so for several years we have recorded the reduced interest of students in enrolling in these programmes. Also, employers' studies have shown that pupils do not have sufficient skills needed by employers to ensure business sustainability, and that there is an increasing gap between education system supply and labour market demand. The results of an analysis of employers' views on this study show that only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people, and that the main problem is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job. And what is most important for the system of vocational education is to recognise the current and future demand for qualifications that will be needed for economic development. These findings highlighted the importance of reforming vocational education and training, especially under the circumstances of the increasingly rapid economic change and adaptation of the workforce. The need for reform is highlighted in the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2020-'24, as well as in the NPOO 2021-2026, which stressed that young people need to be able to learn, think and adapt to permanent changes and new circumstances, and that there is a need to address the discrepancies of the educational offer with labour market needs. These documents highlight the importance of further modernising the system and developing new curriculum documents with an emphasis on green and digital transition, as well as encouraging further development of the quality assurance framework, in particular the quality of the implementation of educational programmes and the work of institutions, as well as the promotion of internationalisation of education and training and international mobility of students and teachers. In order for the processes highlighted in the strategic documents to be uninterrupted, harmonisation is necessary and the legislative framework will therefore specify the key changes proposed by these amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education. The first key change with the aim of raising the quality of learning and teaching in the work process and school institutions is to define work-based learning. Particular attention is paid to the quality of the educational process at school, but also to the employer. So far, the practice has shown that there is insufficient connection between schools and employers where students conduct learning based on work is therefore essential for education to turn to the economy and to monitor the dynamics of the labour market and changes in technological processes in cooperation with it. It is important for employers to have equal participation in the quality building of skills for professions that will be desirable for young people. What is important is the fact that the main motivator to involve employers in the process of education is not a short-term profit but a high-level training of future high-level employees, which is considered to be an investment with a long-term.../incomprehensible/... since, through the reform of vocational education, a greater emphasis is being given just to acquire practical skills in the working environment, the need for a clearer definition of learning based on the work of this law is imposed. Learning based on work as opposed to the practical lessons and exercises that have been performed mostly in high school is a new approach to learning focused on the practical benefits of learning. Learning in the workplace acquires the specific knowledge and skills needed for independent, safe and responsible work and solving the real problems of the work process of a particular profession. Also, social competences, entrepreneurial spirit, respect for professional standards and prescribed rules within a specific workplace are being acquired and developed. Since employers are expected to be active participants in the teaching process, these changes and additions are extended in a way that clearly determines who the learner is in the work process, i.e. the mentor to the student in the employer. In order to raise the quality of the mentor's work with the student of this amendment and the addition of the law, they introduce the obligation of persons appointed to mentors in the employer to pass an exam proving the basic knowledge of teaching of pupils, which is carried out on the basis of the basic learning programme of students who have been brought by the Ministry of Economy and who is tailored to the needs of employers and pupils. The previous legislative solutions provided that mentors in employers had submitted pedagogical competences in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which in practice proved to be an unsustainable solution because the programme of obtaining pedagogical competences was not adapted to the acquisition of skills needed for teaching in the work process. The amendments to the laws of mentors in employers will also allow for the upgrade of acquired knowledge and skills by their permanent professional training without additional cost for employers. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education under its regular activities will enable professional training in employers according to their needs, making sure that the training programmes allow for the upgrade of skills needed to work with students. In order to improve the quality of learning based on the work of the employer, these legislative changes and additions are also prescribed for the first time by the possibility of professional supervision of the exercise of work-based learning by the employer, which is made up of representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Institute of Professional Education, Agency for Professional Education and Education, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The second key legislative change concerns the establishment of mechanisms and criteria for encouraging participants to choose marketable qualifications. Thus far, the registration policy has mostly met the needs of the school and, most often, according to existing human and material conditions. High schools as well as their founders have been insufficiently monitoring the needs of the economy at local and regional level. For this reason, these amendments and additions to the law introduce legal obligations to schools, their founders and other stakeholders to plan to enroll students in professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations for educational registration policies to be adopted in accordance with the needs of employers. The next step towards encouraging students' interest to participate in certain vocational education programmes that are relevant to labour market needs is also the student scholarship policy. The scholarship mechanisms have already been implemented, and at national level, the Ministry of Economy has been very successful in attracting students into deficit crafts activities. However, for the first time, these legislative amendments seek to introduce uniform criteria for the award of scholarships to students of vocational programmes and to achieve qualifications of relevant labour markets. For this reason, it is proposed that the criteria for selecting relevant and market-based interests are established by respecting the needs of the economy and the labour markets at national, regional and local level. The definition of scholarships through the legislative framework aims to encourage different bodies of state administration, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, but also employers to actively participate in decision-making on the criteria for the allocation of incentives, and it is important to stress that grants can be provided from both the state budget and the founder's budget as well as from EU funds, from employers as well as from other sources. The third key legislative change concerns improving the quality assurance system in vocational education. In order to get a picture of whether vocational education is intended or whether it is in line with the needs of students, but whether those implementing the educational process are satisfied must create assumptions for the continued promotion of further development of the quality assurance framework. So far, the implementation of the process of self-evaluation of vocational schools has indicated that certain changes are needed. To that end, it is proposed to include more detailed arrangements for the implementation of the professional school evaluation process itself, and in the process, unlike the provisions so far, a school director who becomes president of the Committee on Quality and Persons is now responsible for the work of the commission and the process of the institution's own evaluation. The next key legislative change concerns improving the conditions for further development of regional competence centres. I would like to recall that the amendments to the Law on Professional Education by the 18th year have laid down the conditions under which secondary vocational schools can be transformed into regional competence centres in the targeted sectors. This also identifies one of the priority European policies, which provides for total investment of 1.9 billion kuna for the establishment of 25 centres in the five professional sectors, with funds of 1.2 billion kuna for the development of human resources, networking with stakeholders in the region and beyond, modernisation and development of education programmes that the centres will implement, and the acquisition of additional specialized equipment, and the reconstruction and construction of infrastructure of regional competence centres has provided 756 million kuna. Further development of regional competence centres, and in order to strengthen the integration of the economic sector into the development of the so-called skills of the qualified workforce, private initiatives in the development of ECKs as one of the eligible partners were envisaged, which was not possible in the context of the existing legal solutions. The provisions of amending and supplementing this law relating to the improvement of the work of regional competence centres provide that a regional competence centre can provide through a public private partnership the means to provide for the provision of working machinery, equipment and other conditions for the implementation of work-based learning, and the funds can be provided from the centre's own funds, the founders' funds, employers' resources, and other sources. This will establish synergies between the economy and the education sector with the greatest importance for changes in the economy towards digital and green transition, and ensure long-term sustainability of the centre. The next key legislative change relates to the quality assurance of the curicula, i.e. curicula. I also prefer the word curicula, but in any case it is a derivative so that we can talk about the curicula and the curicula and their connection in/with the qualification framework. For the sake of compliance of the vocational education system with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which was adopted in February 2021, it is important to amend the law to the mandatory link between professional curricula and one or more standards of qualifications, i.e. one or more standards of interest in accordance with the concept of the Croatian qualification framework as a key tool linking vocational education programmes with labour market needs. Legislative amendments also provide for the deployment of education programmes in sectors with relevant interests on the basis of a national classification of interest, which introduces a clear link between professional sectors, subsectors, education programmes and the pursuit of certain jobs in different professions. This will allow transparent insight into skills acquired through the completion of high school, and employers will receive relevant information on what qualifications, skills and skills they can expect from a high school graduate. Respected representatives and advocates for the systematic and co-ordinated implementation of the reform processes of vocational education and training require an effective and flexible legislative framework. It is necessary to take advantage of everything that is recognised as good in the system, to ensure that quality is not compromised but built and that the best possible results are achieved through targeted investment in improving the existing system. It's final. The proposed legislative solution is necessary because it will introduce significant changes to the system of vocational education and contribute to better coherence of the education system with the labour market, to ensure a sufficient number of qualified workforce and their faster adaptation and performance at the workplace, and also to the better passing of students who continue education for a higher level of qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91954	I thank the Secretary of State. Stay there, because we have 24 replicas. First up, Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91955	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. Here you have also touched in one word that the Republic of Croatia is in the very European summit by the share of students in vocational education, especially according to EUROSTAT we are fourth. It is good to continue to adopt strategic legislative frameworks. From the strategy and the program now changes and additions to the law but I'd like to ask you something else. We heard that briefly in your presentation. So, in particular, it works for regional competence centres, given that this is financed from the European Social Fund, the total value is over 819 million kuna of grants that will go to approximately 19 schools. And what's important is that different sub-sectors will be financed through it, so from engineering, electrical engineering, computing, agriculture, health care. Can you specifically say what stage these centres are in, given that they are key and have a primary role in providing, so these skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91956	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91957	Thank you very much. As far as regional competence centres are concerned, it is true, but there are two European funds. So both ISF and RDF. The total majority and size of these funds is 1.9 billion kuna. 1.2 is even for structural programmes and content, so to speak, and this second part is related to infrastructure operations. As far as implementation is concerned, it depends on the regional centre to the regional centre and they differ in percentage of the realization so far, someone goes faster, someone is more successful there, someone is a little less successful, analysts exist, we can give you, I can't tell you by heart, but the fact is that these 5 sectoral basic directions within the regional competence centres are working and going, in a certain percentage it's being realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91958	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91959	Dear Mr. Baljak, is that a similar name so I won't be rude to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91960	P as Pula, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91961	I won't, I won't go into your competence, but I'll bet you that from what you read if you asked me to jump now you wouldn't be able to repeat two sentences. But aside from that. It's a specific question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91962	And my colleague Beljak, and why, why now, why go, why go underestimating the secretary of state, I'll give you time, but I mean completely unnecessary. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91963	I don't understand. You can give me back my time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91964	I understand, the secretary of state was very argumentative and politely speaking, he answered the question, I don't understand why, for what, to go personally now to a man for no reason whatsoever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91965	Yeah, he wasn't talking, he was reading, he wasn't talking, he was reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91966	I'll give you back your time, all right, here, please don't do this because there's no real reason. Nothing, no man deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91967	So, if a man had spoken as you say, then I wouldn't have commented, the man read it, so, okay. Can I ask you a specific question just?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91968	Here, 10 seconds left on this, 40 seconds left, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91969	Thank you very much, Mr. President, you're very kind when I need to be distracted, but well, I forgive you. I'm going to be very brief, so a specific question. Were you planning to continue to leave as part of the program, so teaching subjects such as interest in hairdresser or mechatronic religious science as a mandatory subject, that correction is not entirely required you have general ethics, so religious or ethics, but is it a mandatory subject or were you going to remove it and increase the number of professional items, Captain?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91970	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91971	Thank you very much. I understand what you've said, I haven't, I haven't been offended by an esteemed representative, this is possible that now you're out of the blue asking me something here I'm reading, I'm working parallel to 10 of these different systems, and it's possible that I couldn't do it all over again, but what you said is a matter of curriculum or what will only come after the introduction of standards of occupation, so qualifications, then comes the curricula comes and of course you'll consider whether there's a need for religious teaching in professional professions as you have stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91972	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91973	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here I will ask you one question that we have received from the professor and director of vocational schools who are in practice facing certain problems, and the question is the following. How do you think economic operators who receive students in practice will single out one employee to deal exclusively with the conduct of all required paperwork, and do you really think that the employer will be willing to send them to the laying of additional qualifications and who will pay for it? Because the employer thus loses if not all of it then at least one part of the person who has a certain standard by the employer and cannot deal with the student or the students in such detail, and on the other hand the school could be in trouble with finding an employer who will receive students in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91974	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91975	Thank you very much. This is the problem, however, this bill greatly reduces the mentor who is in the employer's position no longer to meet these criteria that were necessary so far and which have proved unsustainable, even moreover this possibility which allows this programme which is defined through the Ministry of Economy is much more passing and much faster and will be able to gain this basic, basic skills in order to be an employer mentor and I think that employers will now be much more motivated to determine a mentor who will then be able to professionally and normally lead his scientist or student who comes to him on, on learning based on work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91976	Let's go to the fourth line, Comrade Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91977	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, research conducted by the Ministry of Science and Education in cooperation with the European Professional Agency, and you yourself spoke about it, has shown, unfortunately, that the existing models of vocational education in Croatia are obsolete and that they are not, in fact, meeting the needs of the labour market and that in Croatia there is a very large gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market, and a special emphasis is placed on the need for more intensive cooperation between vocational schools and employers, where employers show a marked dissatisfaction with acquired competences of high school students, where the main problem is the lack of their practical skills. Now, my question is what exactly this legislative proposal brings in order to reduce these problems and these really great shortcomings and ultimately eliminate them in the Croatian system of vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91978	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91979	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, that I just didn't accidentally highlight this difference in the terminology that so far meant practical teaching and exercise, and now we're talking about learning based on work precisely so that the practice of doing that practical teaching in school institutions is moved to where it is much more effective, which is with employers. It is precisely in this context that the amendments to this law are going on, and that is the fastest way to get to the implementation of exactly what we want to achieve by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91980	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91981	Dear Secretary of State, there is no baker, butcher, armyman, locksmith, ceramics missing in Croatia. Now, do you have any idea how many in Vukovar-Srijem County where I come from, there are children who are taking the course of ceramics? Zero, 150,000 residents, zero children attending the ceramic direction. And one of the opportunities for incentives is precisely scholarships that the Ministry of Economy has abolished for craftsmanship, with reasons that there is not enough funding in the European budget. I think there must be resources in the state budget for this kind of thing. Why did you not provide funding for scholarships in your budget items to further encourage students to enroll in craft professions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91982	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91983	Thank you very much, and it is precisely the intensity of this law to define itself and for the first time in the law mention scholarships for this reason that they may be within the framework of the state budget, but also regional and regional local self-government ministries, as well as EU funds, and I believe that now that this legal assumption will be fulfilled that these scholarships will then happen to be more issued to hit target groups again, as they were there around 2013, in 2014 with a unique model of education when they were more intensively scholarshipd by the Ministry of Economy and then in some period of time, interest for them fell, and now they rise again. This is something that allows scholarships to be much more generous, to be a greater motive for students to enroll in these occupations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91984	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91985	Thank you. There is no shortage of labour, but there are low wages. What many have been warning since the very beginning of these skills-oriented education is that in fact, most of them are educated by sellers, so I am interested in what share of sellers are in relation to other professions that are least looking for this type of specific vocational education. And another thing about how we can even talk about some labour market that dominates this document here, if these children are paid 10% of the average salary, first year to 25% of the average salary up to 3 years. So it's a danger that many warn about, which is that employers will, of course, accept this workforce that they are making up for to the cheap student labour force, and that now this new pool of the army of the unemployed future trees is going to be some sort of substitute, and for poor pay. Therefore, and I must tell you about the religious teaching that I am pleasantly surprised by your answer But you have to consult with the Vatican Treaties, but I'm glad you're thinking about qualifications in that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91986	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91987	Yes, thank you very much so that, of course, when we talk about content, then we think about the final result, and that's why I answered. Of course there is a whole series of assumptions that must be fulfilled before that. As far as selling stock is concerned, I'd have to take a look at that. I don't know exactly which one it is. But what you've mentioned as a problem is a cancer thing, let's say from employers' rakurs, many aren't even inclined to even take students into practice in these conditions when they have to pay them, although the fact is that it grows linearly first depending on the first, second or third year. In the third year, we can say that they do not have a student but already have as a finished worker, and that should be a motive for them to receive them in, in teaching or learning based on work, so here I believe that these changes will open the way for it to be better and make it more pro-pulsive for both employers and students.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91988	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91989	I thank the chairman. Here, dear secretary, it's important, here I agree that we should certainly work on the quality of practical teaching that we should certainly increase in vocational schools. What this law introduces is therefore additional obligations for the so-called so-called law. Masters of mentors, and there is a concern that these additional obligations could actually make the whole process difficult and create some additional obligations and then reduce the number of those who are willing to actually accept, take people into practice. And that's why this quality-enhancing process should somehow be brought into line with that and employers, etc. But one question in the end, therefore, is there any intention that this practice and this practical teaching should be introduced as well as an account, as well as additional work experience to those students who, at the end of the school, would also give some advantage to the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91990	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91991	Thank you very much, I know what you mean, I can't say it right now because then it's a definition of actually schooling work and then it gets intertwined with other regulations and obligations. And as far as mentors were concerned, it was just a practice that employers had no mentors because mentors had to have pedagogical, professional pedagogical competences, which is a much more complicated process and more difficult and invaluable for the employer than those who would be free of charge and who in a very short time in some 40 hours of vocational training will allow this employer to have a mentor who can lead a student when he comes to him to learn based on work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91992	Comrade Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91993	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, education is the cornerstone of thought-out economic development. For the importance of the economy, it is important to plan strategically the process of acquiring knowledge, skills and belonging to the independence of all stakeholders of this process. In your debate, you yourself said that only 1/3 were satisfied with the competence of students, it also showed that employers, that employers said there was an insufficient level of youth competence after high school. Of course, the goal is for all of us to have a motivated student, an educated teacher, a modern mentor, a modern employer, and the result, of course, should be motivated, a skilled, educated young employee ready for the labour market. In your opinion, how much this legislative proposal will improve and help all of this and how much it will speed up all these processes because we are aware that we have a labour shortage on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91994	Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91995	Your Honor, I think that's exactly what this law is about. We want to implement as soon and as possible what we see in this very lively process that we call education, and that it is immediately acceptable and that it is in some way taken into account what the market is now demanding. We thought this was better than taking more time to complete a document, or new law, which, of course, is not excluded, but at this point I think this is the best way to get the implementation and alignment of these documents we've already adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91996	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91997	Dear Secretary of State, these amendments and additions to the law also provide for the possibility that the centres of regional competence through a public-private partnership provide means for working machinery, equipment and for everything else necessary for such a necessary, necessary implementation of quality practice which, unfortunately, we do not now have. Now, this model of public-private partnership has now been brought to life in Croatia only in Varazdin County, which is why 34 schools and sports halls have been built, equipped and restored, which has enabled one superstandard in Croatia, so 100% of children are enrolled after primary high school and almost 100% of children attend one-way classes, so these are very important models. Now, since they have not been recognized so far in the rest of Croatia how will you direct, motivate and how will you really encourage the founders, these are therefore primarily the counties to start using these models of public-private partnership, especially in the context of their integration with European funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91998	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u91999	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're absolutely right. So, on the basis of this good implementation, the first implementation of JPP which, which happened in the Varazdin County and which led to this superstandard is the part that the law has now to recognise, which was so far not the case, but which is even more important here, which is precisely through regional competence centres will be allowed for employers to get involved and if these programs that they mean good compliance with what the public sector then wants, we can come into the win-win situation because the private entrepreneur except that he enters into this equipment process of course and his benefits afterwards, is bound to maintain the system, which is very important because after we have now through these European funds to get funds and exhaust this huge amount of money we have these huge and expensive systems, expensive machines that will need for this vocational education, and then we can see our private partners here our chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92000	My colleague Pocrnic-Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92001	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the amendments to the law in question are necessary and should certainly be implemented as soon as possible, first of all I mean, monitoring the state of the labour market, working on the creation of registration quotas and educational programmes. I wonder if you have considered in the ministry the possibility that all schools, especially those in smaller areas, will not be able to adapt without the help of the ministry to the requirements in question and enter new sectors and new occupations? First of all, I think of less polyvalent schools such as all schools in Ličko-Senjska County, they are currently and now education of surplus staff and they must make radical changes both in education sectors and in professions. They also need financial resources and, of course, personnel, so I ask your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92002	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92003	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, that's a broad question. In fact, we have no problem with, what percentage of vocational professions or secondary schools are related to professional professions because they are more pronounced than the high school programs in Europe. What you're potential for as a problem is one part going to be solved right through regional competence centres because other than these 25 centres, they're binding their partners on themselves, and their partners are once again waving high school in a particular area that they can make their contribution and that they can draw their benefits from it. So at this point, these 25 regional centres of competence actually detonate over 100 different educational entities that participate in this process, all of which can ultimately benefit and ultimately recognize this problem that you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92004	Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92005	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I will mention a good example, which is the Tourist and Restaurant School in Split, which will now become the starting point of development and education of young tourist workers precisely thanks to the project of the regional centre of competence for which they signed a 74.3 million kuna contract with the Ministry of Tourism. I think that's definitely the future of vocational education just like this for schools, projects and centres, because that's the only way we can connect both profession and schoolboys, but also mentors and employers tomorrow. I'm curious, this is a concrete project through the Ministry of Tourism, and I'm interested in the Ministry of Education how much it helps schools and institutions to apply to projects like this, and we know that they don't have the funds of these 15% to 20% that they have to finance themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92006	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92007	Yes, thank you very much. This is indirectly related to the ministry, but since I have personal experience on how to implement such projects that have gone easier somewhere, somewhere, somewhere harder, they still relate to who the founder is, that is, that is, cities and counties that have to be networked with their regional centres or their experts in their development agencies, and the assumption is another good team of schools, so headed by the director and his team, and when it all works together and coordinated then, that is to say, there is a greater percentage of the realization of this, and it's not a very long time, 2023. It's already on the threshold, so I understand the question. And apart from the indirect role, so content and what the ministry institutionally means in realisation is done in practice as I said, but now it's absolute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92008	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92009	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, the fact is that Croatia lacks professional professions and that interests are very small. These improvements that you mention here and that you have installed in these amendments to the law where the scholarship of such professional professions would be further potentiated is certainly good. What I'm still curious about is whether you've thought about how to encourage and employers who are really you and mentors and those who give you the knowledge and expect in the end to produce a quality, quality craftsman or anything like that, so do they have certain improvements in the sense that they are stimulated in this sense to produce such young people, with a new one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92010	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92011	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I know what you're aiming at, although here, I'm not so competent because this part is intersectoralally related mainly to the economy and the Ministry of Economy, but we're thinking about what it would be and how even the employers would be further motivated to take students on, learning based on work, whether through possible tax relief or some other stimulating measures at the moment I can't tell you, but the fact is that, apart from the crafts that are, of course, the most frequent and somehow most potent in this sense of rapid, rapid implementation, we have, in particular, here, in northern Croatia's big industry, significant jobs, significant needs, and probably there are, of course, those employers who want to come to be educated at a place of particular interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92012	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As far as I can see, you're satisfied with the bill, this side is already satisfied, everything is great, we're going to change something a little bit. Practice. Here's practice. Someone will say, Hrvoje, you are now a mentor when this law comes into force. He's going to be a bit of a doptics and pedagogy, he's going to meet Jan Komenski, and then he's going to be a mentor to some student, he's going to be a Jedi Knight. Who chooses the mentor, Mr. Secretary of State? Who decides, who pays for his education, and what happens when a mentor, say, gets sick so that he can no longer practice that we talk about all the time? So in my debate and in the name of the club, I'm going to do some more paradoxical things that I've read from this law, but generally, I'm interested in who this person is, again, who we're giving discretionary rights to determine to be a mentor and whether this mentor, in the end of the line with his regular job, because of what he's going to do as a mentor gets some kind of coin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92014	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92015	Thank you very much. Yeah. The mentor is selected by the employer, and pays for further training is paid through the system of so-called professional education and adult education agencies. The intensity is that we are not burdening ourselves with these items of the employer's law and how it will be implemented and how it will look in practice, of course, we are just going to see, here we are creating frameworks, but what has been so far has been, I mean, it was unsustainable, and I think it will be acceptable in this way for employers because they will determine the mentor, who will be in charge of students in practice or learning based on work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92016	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's a good thing there's a law in front of us today and what I've already asked you on the board, so we have a professional two-year-old and professional three-year-old, going around somewhere, going to 28% of students who don't have,.../incomprehensible/... no possibility of further education. So, if four years of vocational education were introduced, means vocational education, I think that such an organisation would allow knowledge to be acquired, which means that students and students in vocational professions have the same chance on the labour market, the possibility of further education and such changes have an educational system, will move towards global competitiveness and we will not listen to what counterpart Beljak said before, that only students who can't get a job anywhere are going anywhere, or that it means that, according to me, we should all be allowed to have equal education opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92018	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92019	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, I got it. Yes, it's a more complex problem because on the one hand you have the greatest motivation for students to go to these occupations, and among other things, one part of the motive draws from the fact that they will end their profession in 3 years. The system is now, however, allowing if something changes in those 3 years, yet the student decides to continue to develop, let's say his academic potential in higher education, in higher education institutions, to pass and then obtain the conditions of access to the state's graduation, with some difference in compatible program. If in the future we're going to find another even better way of doing exactly what you said, so that doesn't allow three-year-olds to develop further, we'll see, but I'm afraid that if we were now over our knees, so to speak, we would introduce three-year-olds or four-year-olds. to lose the ones we have, that's all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92020	Thank you very much. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92021	You said the first postulate of the law of learning was based on work. I suggest you put learning based on knowledge and facts into another reading, so records based on teaching, and then on work. Why? If that had happened to us, we wouldn't have had this HNB joke, and here, if we'd taught those designers that there was no intellectual property theft, then it wouldn't have happened to us if you had a mentor, like you're super proposing in the CNB that it was a designer society, then there wouldn't have been any shame on you. But what to say about shame when we have shame in the Parliament. I'm reading the morning list today. What to say when some MPs take me years, for decades continuous and lasting benefits for a separate life, and the family lives here. So the problem is complex, the problem is complex, the problem has to be spoken, and as far as foreign qualifications are concerned, that's where I'm going to talk more on the professional education of our health [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The professions. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92022	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92023	Thank you very much. Look, it's a termology, of course, I can agree in a broader context with what you said, but we went based on work because this is about what used to be a practice, what was called some practical activity. In principle, it involved work, and we have now introduced learning based on work because it takes place in concrete practice or work activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92024	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92025	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I think it is good to change the Law on Professional Education, first of all to bring it into line with the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but I would refer to something that is said in my presentation, which is that the law should make maximum flexibility, i.e. professional education, to make it maximum flexibility to respond, to the needs of employers' markets. So I'm interested in what I'm reading from the law is that in fact, the self-evaluation process that should be carried out will remain a process that is purely marked by paperwork, which produces a lot of paper, and does not produce the desired result because the desired result alone, self-evaluation, is precisely that to constantly modify the programmes to be in touch with the market and market needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92026	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92027	Yes, Your Honor, we have so far had a situation in which when we talk about self-valuation, the self-valuation of the institution has actually not been included in the self-value of the institution at all, he must now be not only involved, he must be a key person in self-valuation, have a team and must be responsible for it. And he will, as far as the institution is concerned, oversee the educational inspection, and as for what happens to employers when learning is based on work, and there is a special commission involving then different sectors, resolutions from the Ministry of Economy, so there is the commission, there is therefore the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Agency, etc., but we have prescribed this now a little more detail because it is, however, a practical need for it to be said, and so for the first time they are introduced and some sort of sanctioning obligation. What it's going to look like in practice, is it just going to be in theory like this I hope it doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92028	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92029	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, 40 years ago the first norm when it comes to vocational education was a practice. Without practice there is no professional profession, there is no student who will learn the profession if it is not in practice. I think a three-way alliance of schools, an employer and a student of the sea must be a norm. The school has this approach and that it knows exactly by its geographical position that these industries are closely related to that school and enroll not one or, perhaps 2 or 3 departments. It is the employer who wants to co-finance even with student scholarships, wants to get them equipment and to give them the conditions to get better education and eventually the same employer of the student probably wants to keep it for himself, rather than handing it over to the EU or to some markets that we are not going to achieve absolutely anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92031	Thank you very much, I agree, if we succeed in that intention, and you have just well detected it that after this process the employer wishes to stimulate the remainder of the one, that student whom he has educated for the occupation he needs, then we will significantly reduce this labour drain that we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92032	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92033	Secretary, in the Republic of Croatia we have about 300 institutions of vocational education are mostly secondary schools and similar institutions and more or less all of these practices take place I would say on 2 colossals these are school facilities within classrooms, workshops and co-relations with employers. I am interested in following this bill, after which I would say more intensive cooperation with employers whether in all areas of the Republic of Croatia there will be sufficient number of licensed employers or mentors and the wish of many directors to invest even more intensively in the equipment of school workshops, classrooms originally for first classes because it has been shown that within the school system it can be very successful if they are directors Managers' shelters can certainly be found [[Intruder: Thank you.]] processes to work quality. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92034	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92035	Yes, it is possible, however, that you are right if we talk about the first year, but after that it is the urgency to go to employers and to learn what they want to study on the spot later on. I believe that we will contribute to the motivation of employers to send mentors to this education that will then enable them to see under these conditions, as this law simply requires students who will come to them and then be competent to work with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92036	There's a fellow Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92037	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here we will hear and later in my presentation this is really worrying. These are 4 densely typed pages with data from the professional schools of all Croatian counties and occupations which, at the beginning of last i.e. Now the current school year has not been signed up by anyone, so I would like to ask you, we are aware that, unfortunately, the choice of vocational school and later professional profession, let us call it such a craft as we would call it folk in society, is not particularly well perceived, which is certainly a mistake. Do you have information in the ministry about students, their motivation to choose a vocational school, the way they perceive future craft interest, that would interest me. Is there even thinking about launching a national campaign or perhaps that young people might be aware that the trade is a wonderful, honorable, and honest job?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92039	Thank you. Dear Representative, of course we are thinking and of course you are right when you present this data and of course it is not just a strict problem of education in Croatia but a general social problem, motivate students today, motivate their parents to motivate their children for these occupations is a more complex process. It takes place naturally on, parts of the field through various campaigns. As you know, founders work and schools do campaigns and try to attract students to enroll. If we go to the national campaign, we'll see when this law is implemented, but that's not a bad idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92040	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92041	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, she says knowledge is power, so whoever has knowledge has power and can do whatever they want, but the fact is that schools don't have students, and so does the professor. I also want to commend here teachers who selflessly give themselves in these difficult times, and clearly that it is quite different to work in a system of education and education today and 30 years ago. What I wanted to ask you, did you maybe think about a network of schools, since we're a state that has 14 sectors and 400 professions, and we're witnesses that we can't actually sign up for everything that's on the market and that some of the interests that kids are taking, that they don't actually have a future. So we have the highest interest in Europe, we should work to modernise our interests in future times and the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92042	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92043	Thank you very much. We are thinking, of course, but this process implies something else, and we were touching each other when we talked about the Law on adult education, this particular problem. In fact, it is now in the process of defining the standards of interest which will then enable the standards of qualifications which will, of course, be in the smaller range of occupations and when we reach the structure of curicula or curicula, then it will mean that certain areas covered by the standard of interest are possible and will be possible to implement more areas that will reduce this number of programs that you have said, and then we can think about school networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92044	- Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92045	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, as an expert coming from Varazdin County who is known for the above standard in education, I am really pleased that you answer very well and quality questions and advocate that this superstandard is present in other parts of Croatia, but my question and replica refers to textbooks that unfortunately do not follow and depreciated programs. What about the textbook, for example? The builders who actually teach them materials that were present in the last century, building methods, etc., so the textbooks are the cancer of the wounds of our school system and what you do about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92046	Thank you. I have to give you my word. Here's the answer. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92047	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad you recognized me as someone who's been working on the matter we're talking about, and, of course, since we're geographically from the same neighborhoods, I'm glad you're also potentialing here that superstandard that's been reached there and that of course we want to do it online for the whole of the Republic of Croatia. The textbooks are a major problem not only of professional professions, but in general, and soon there will be a change in the law on textbooks because of the specificities of these professions you are talking about, of course there will be a change, we will talk about it, and you are right, they are obsolete, they are not good, they are not in line with time and they should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92048	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92049	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, it's really a pleasure to listen to different parliamentary representatives from different parts of Croatia, Split, Varazdin, different areas that praise regional centres of competence. So obviously it's a full hit, and if we need it, we see, I just looked, right now at the Employment Office, 30 221 000 working unfulfilled places are advertised. Usually that number is about 15 grand, now it's over 30,000, most jobs are just professional qualifications. What would remove these criticisms for mentorship because that's how Austria works with dual education, I was in Siemens in Vienna who boasts about how many mentors there are and basically there is competence among employers, it's being pushed by Mr. Pavicin, who is now in the ministry, there's competence that employers are better at having as many certified and quality mentors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92050	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92051	Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, that's also the goal of getting that level of consciousness and that way of thinking employers. However, of course, we cannot immediately implement this dual system as Austria has, Switzerland, but it is not impossible, but I believe that employers will recognize their mentors in this very sense as you said and will potential their people to go and become mentors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92052	- Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92053	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state. The proposed legislative changes for the first time introduce legal obligations for schools, founders and resolutional ministry planning the enrolment of students in professional professions exactly in line with the recommendations for the education registration policy and the HZZ scholarship policy. I would just like to remind you that the real or private sector has no obligation to report the need for labour towards HZZ and, in fact, in my conversations with craftsmen and entrepreneurs, they do not, in most cases, do so. How do you actually think that we can then talk about some issue of relevance, credibility, coverage and accuracy of such recommendations and also make sure that actually craftsmen and entrepreneurs have no obligation, unlike the public sector or publish competitions with HZZ, which they often do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92054	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92055	Thank you very much. This announcement, this is a broader context, at this point I can't answer you, but as far as the intensity is concerned, just by working with all these stakeholders in the process, and the emphasis with the HZZ programs are defined on the basis of the calendar year, it's not until now, but it's been waiting for something to show or not to show good or bad, and then it's only then to react immediately, and that's actually the intensity of the acceleration of this system because this situation is currently on HZZ, it doesn't mean that it's going to be tomorrow, and if you don't have a legal framework that you can react tomorrow, then anything can happen. In that sense, we have a situation, it is true that here, in the highest percentage, students end up with what they type and we are even close to the European average when we see whether they are employed when they are viewed as a percentage or not, are very close to the European average, but we still have no data as to whether they are employed in the professions they have been trained for, that's another.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92056	Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92057	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, more or less all the ministries, and yours have begun to adhere to a law that regulates the lawmaking procedure and any law that comes here before us parliamentary deputies precedes the making of a previous impact assessment of the rules defining whether there is a need to go into the law, which is amended by law, what economic and social effects will have and whether it makes any sense after public consultation goes into the amendments to that law. I don't understand how you decided to go the other way with this law? First you put the law into public consultation, and then later you made a preliminary assessment of the effects of the regulations. I mean, when you're planning something when you go to the store, then you do the list first, and then you go to the store, you don't buy everything you need, so then you come home and see what you're in, why did it happen when it didn't happen, and now I've checked it out, with almost no law that you've passed and suggested a meeting of the previous years?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92058	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92059	Because we want to be effective and because we want to act now. These procedures can be the way they are, they and this law assume compliance with these frameworks or, with these documents that I mentioned in the introduction, whether the path is the opposite or the logical or not, okay, I can accept that this one that you noticed some illogicalness here, but here's what we want us to do anyway to do in the fastest possible way, and here's why we went according to this law in this way that we went, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92060	Thank you very much. You don't have any more. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure]] Yeah, but you don't have this anymore, you're free to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92061	Yeah, I'm free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92062	You're free to go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92063	Well, Mr. Vice President. In 238, I, as an advocate, have the right to point out the derogations and violations of the law and I did so. It's not about illogicality, but I've pointed out that it actually deviated from a law that prescribes the procedure for all laws. Now, it turns out that this law was made by someone's order, and then the evaluation was done and I didn't get the answer, but it was illogical. It's not illogical, it's something that doesn't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92064	Thank you, but it's not intended for the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. Truth or not, I don't think I'm getting into it. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ asked for a break, she will ask for a break as far as I can see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92065	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club to remind why this legislative proposal is not good and to highlight the problem with professional education in Croatia. Professional education is extremely important, it is important for two reasons. First if we're in something high in Europe, it's by the share of students in vocational education. We're even fourth, and more than we're expected to see that number shrinking from 70 to 60%, unlike anything else where we need to grow. However, when we talk about vocational education unlike some other types of education that are more often focused, we are talking about practice here above all. And there's the key question of what we've done so far to bring vocational education back to life. Over two billion kunas have been received from EU funds for vocational education. What's been spent? There was little experimental dual education, so there were no completed curiculas to go to school, and we never heard the epilogue of it. What about the employers, how many licensed employers have you secured? Did you secure salaries for self-valuation by teachers? These are issues which are of interest to those who conduct vocational education in practice, and above all if we want to talk really about harmonising with the labour market then it should be pointed out that the key document you call on for vocational education in Croatia states that the HZZ provides quotas, but only qualitatively, is not a system on which every year the quotas to adapt the labour market should be provided. Finally, this law does not comply with the Law on adult education and the Law on Education and Education. In 60, which shows that you have a flawed and contradictory proposal that cannot bring benefits in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92066	Thank you very much. Of course, the break is approved, but we're continuing to work... I beg your pardon? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, yes, wait just a moment, but we are continuing to work in view of the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Skoro also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92067	I am Mr. Vice President, and thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia. Namely, after this detour that Mr. Secretary of State went through the replicas that you had and at one point, I even felt sorry for you. But that's the way it is, it has nothing to do with you, it has to do with the function you're acting. I can't help but notice, and I'd like to do that with my club members to further analyze and discuss that on several occasions you said "we'll see when this law applies". You said that at least twice corresponded to one to me, and then to one of your colleagues. I think we're in HS here not because we're experimenting and theoretical, and we're waiting to see what happens when some law applies. We are here to bring quality laws and quality legal solutions based on which our citizens will live better and better quality, in this case where they will be educated better and better in vocational schools. I know that the rulings are used to changing and supplementing laws after the earthquake on several occasions, and after that, nothing happens again, no houses are restored. Here we talk about our children, we talk about the future, we talk about those who will live after us and build this country. Yes, of course I have nothing against mentors, though, but we invent hot water in the 21st century, it's in Austria, as counterpart Pavić said they have long ago and I welcome it, it's just a question of how to become a mentor. We'll get some employer to decide who's gonna be the mentor. Which is why the employer is qualified to decide who will be mentor, because he knows his employees so you probably assume he knows who would be best for such a role, but you haven't answered my question, and I think this law has a lot of holes, so let's fix it in this process, not see when it starts. application. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92068	Thank you very much. Also, it's okay to take a break, but we're moving on with the work and it's a violation of Mr. Pavic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92069	... There he is, thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Someone's on fire...]] Your Honor, he's been injured. 238, a colleague insulted the secretary of state, I did not get the impression that he was embarrassed, however, I got the impression that all representatives from all over Croatia praised regional competitiveness centres, and who chooses mentors in Austria, if you are looking at an Austrian model? The employer. You want to go to Siemens, I've been to Siemens, Siemens chooses by, mentor, state finance them, there's a system certifications made by economic... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92070	Mr. Pavić's time and, of course, this was a replica and a reminder. I now call on the representatives of the board, the rapporteurs of the committee,... Another one? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Ostojic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92071	Thank you very much. If we're going to talk about historical gains, then we can think of a minister named Stipe Shuvar, who also combined knowledge and practice, cut out a high school guy, so we all had to go for machinery. I don't think that's good. I don't think that's good, and here there's good things, definitely good, so I stress, secretary of state, you have to put in the first place records based teaching, we say in medicine bedside teaching, so we combine records, knowledge, with skills. Especially in the phase when we have virtual schools, we're all on some Zooms, that's going to be point no. 2. Recognition of foreign qualifications, for example, when I was a minister, I was strongly opposed to their recognition of qualifications from Bihać, for example, that someone should not get angry, Banja Luka or Kragujevac, without seeing patients. So there must be records based and bedside teaching. Although he had just spoken on the other hand that there are three-year-olds, four-year-olds, there are also five-year vocational training for healthcare professionals, nurses. Would you put yourself in the hands of a nurse who hasn't seen a patient, and bring you paper that she's a nurse and that she can give an infusion? I wouldn't, that's why I was against it. After me, of course, some of them approved it. In other words, we have to turn things upside down, I mentioned earlier that in the House obviously some decades they've been taking things that shouldn't be taken, but this explanation of the party, here's our language expert, Mr. Professor. Popov, we're taking a break, and I'm talking, so it's not a break in the line, is it, ma'am? Dr. Selak Rasudiæ, we're giving a break, Professor, we're giving a break in 10 minutes, and we're talking for 2 minutes. Sensu uncle, disaster Let's start with the Parliament, MPs. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Ostojić. Approves. Approves...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92072	... is taking a break too, but we continue to work because we have such an article of the Rules of Procedure that allows us to do so and ask now the rapporteurs of the board do they want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mrs. President. Natalija Martincevic, club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92073	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear secretary and associate. Here, first of all, I would like to point out the importance, necessity and urgency of the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Professional Education, and this also showed a very well-prepared presentation of the Secretary of State which is a large number of replicas immediately at the beginning of the debate. Which is why, due to the serious problems and serious disturbances that have been in our system of vocational education and, of course, consequently in our labour market for many years. It is clear to all of us that the needs of the labour market for qualified professionals are great, but that they are also unfortunately in serious disproportionate to what our education system is producing today. The next problem is certainly the overall dissatisfaction of employers with the level of concrete and applicable skills of students coming out of our education system and the 3rd problem is certainly the comprehensive dissatisfaction of students with a better average of grades that these programs do not need any specific analysis and study at all because each of us who at this point would need a carpenter, wallpaper, plumber, ceramics, etc., would find ourselves in a serious problem because today, for doing these jobs, there are several months waiting, and prices are, of course, due to the lack of offers of these services on the market often unreal high and, of course, seriously contributes to the fact that one serious part of these workers, professional workers, went to work in the EU countries. So it is quite clear that things need to be changed and it is therefore important and good that the ministry comes out with this package of measures. What has proved necessary is that these amendments and amendments to the laws provide that the first time a legal obligation is being introduced for schools, for founders, for the ministry, that, in accordance with the HZZ recommendations, they plan to enroll in professional programmes, and therefore for each calendar year, to keep them in line. For this I would even say that in my court is one of the most important provisions because most of Croatia's children are enrolled in high school and economic programmes, and then do not continue their education, and for this, as figures clearly show, there is no adequate demand on the labour market. For those interests for which demand exists we do not enroll enough children and that is simply a matter that must be regulated legally and therefore this provision of the law is extremely important in my court. It is also important to prescribe the possibility of granting scholarships, whether from the state budget, whether from the budget of local self-government, EU funds, but also from employers' own resources, because financial support is necessary for students in particular in these best interests. And that's where we come up with one more key thing, which is employers. Employers are extremely important in this whole process because the whole system we're talking about today is particularly important for employers, so it's a two-way road. It is those who, through production processes, are the most aware of this problem through their production processes, and a number of companies have already started there for a number of years and have been able to manage this entire system. So, before enrolment in high school, some companies in schools represent their business, present their advantages and conditions and work, provide scholarships and guarantee employment in their companies after schooling. Now, that's what it's all about to come up with, but to organize and finance it can only be big companies, larger companies, while everyone else is waiting for what's going to come out of the West. And that's why it's important to establish the system here, too. Under these legal provisions, employers should also formally become partners with educational institutions, and there is a lot of room and need for cooperation, above all, to develop and improve the curricula for qualifications needed on the labour market. But since we know how things work with us, it's important to propose provisions, to turn into a positive practice I'm speaking now to this secretary of state, so they don't stay a list of good wishes and good ideas. The employers are there, they are an interested party, and our education system needs to be seriously committed and seriously taken into account and that is why it is important that this provision that you have provided for, which is that for the first time this system is being introduced and professional supervision is being drawn up from members of the ministry, from secondary schools and very important from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so this system must be monitored and supervised. As far as employers are concerned, they are not real, they are not black and serious provisions are introduced for them. Today there have been a lot of words about it that is a system of mentoring and mentoring duties in working with these students who participate in learning based on work or to simplify so that it is clear to employers that practice implies concrete work on the jobs for which the student is educated, not to imply the departure of students to the pubes and the cooking of coffee. Finally, it would refer to me as a particularly important provision relating to regional competence centres, i.e. the possibility of providing through a public private partnership the means to ensure the provision of working machinery, equipment and other conditions for the implementation of quality practice. What is the importance and strength of the establishment and functioning of the centres of competence and what opportunities they actually give if they can be used as a serious tool in the education system I will explain very briefly on the example of the Varazdin County because it was in the Varazdin County that it was already today from several representatives here, where a European model of therefore a public private partnership was first introduced, which we built, renovated and equipped 34 schools and sports halls in our county. And by doing so, we have set one above standard in Croatia, which is the fact that 100% of the students are enrolled in high school after graduation. Before that, it was not like that, with free transport which we also provided the first and only in Croatia at that time. So, as many as 30% of the students from rural areas didn't go to high school after primary school, so it wasn't long before about 10 years ago, so it was a dramatic situation. So here's the model that managed to change that. This model has managed to change and the fact that today 100% of children, we lack just one more school going to one-way school in our county, which helps organize and teach and family life, but it has made it possible to do what we're talking about, and this is the establishment of these centres of competence that we have in our county 11, over 860 students, over 160 mentor teachers, and of course the EU recognized it, and so the Varazdin County has become a European center of excellence. One of only 25 centres of excellence throughout Europe. So, it's one confession and actually one lesson that can be really from local level, so that there wouldn't be any confusion anything here we haven't had better or more favourable to the previous mandates of the Ministry of Science and Education, but we managed to create this superstandard and it starts from STEM and here's to vocational education. Namely, the High School of Education in Varazdin has been named the best school in Croatia and has increased the enrolment of students in professional professions by as much as 50% and in our county students are educated for some of the professions they are not trained for anywhere in Croatia. So this is an example of good practice. Investment in education, investment in superstandard, dynamic and continuous cooperation with the economy which is absolutely the key when we talk about vocational education, especially with craftsmen, it is extremely important, it can give serious, serious, visible and measurable results. So, in conclusion, if you know what to do, if you want to, you can. These changes and additions, of course the party Reformists welcome, they are a good, really good and important step in this entire system. Well, the secretary said we'll see. So every time the system enters live then we see, then employers might say what to do, then we'll see if we can fix it if this is a good foundation and a good step in relation to what we have right now. Of course, life will surely bring some more demands for further supplements and improvements. So we support this, but in any case we're looking for a firm commitment from the ministry that this whole process will lead, direct, assist and monitor whether everything is implemented in the way it's imagined, of course very quickly and in concrete and measurable numbers and seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92074	Thank you, too. Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92075	Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, I would like first to thank those colleagues and colleagues who had a great need for breaks because I would like to apologize to the British ambassador who would have to wait for me for coming out for this pay phone. And I went out to invite my colleague Pavlicek to come to the hall because otherwise he'd lose his argument because I couldn't speak for 10 minutes, I couldn't actually speak. Also, Bacic's colleague, Bakic, came out of luck, so at one point she threatened to keep 3 clubs out of discussion because I had to leave this hall because of an appointment. But what we can do about it, for a certain number of colleagues, the debate on behalf of clubs doesn't mean anything, it all comes down to replicas and it all comes down to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it all comes down to breaks. Since, I hope my colleague Pavliček heard me, and if not here is my colleague Bakic, he will continue the debate. I would just like to say this, it's certainly good to want to make certain changes in terms of vocational education, it's certainly good that this grouping on a number of degrees of vocational education through high school in some way and in quality, as well as in the ability to acquire skills. What I see as a danger and what the SDSS Club sees as a danger is that we have less education and more work. I know there's a need in many professions for people to come with more skills, but if we're going to get more skills, we won't have in schools, so we won't have cabinets in schools where they'll get skills and knowledge with those who know it. The dual model fully predicts such a thing, but if it's for specific occupations fine, but if it goes to the whole concept of vocational education to a greater extent, I see it as a danger. The danger of how you can improve the image of lifelong education if you point people to skills and not education. So it's good to mention work, it's good to devote a bigger place in education, but I repeat once again, there's a danger of neglecting education. There were several colleagues here who warned about mentoring. In this transitional period, there are really serious questions about this. How to ensure this from pedagogical standards, professional standards and how to ensure full respect for one who comes to acquire knowledge based on work in, with an employer or with a firm? Scholarships, fees, benefits is all good and everything needs to be increased, but I wouldn't cut the need for schools to have better cabinets because it won't make up for this. The SDSS club will support this in, to go into second reading, but these are our concerns and our questions regarding this bill in brief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92076	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr. Marijan Pavliček of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92077	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary, is the fact that the Croatian education system has a number of problems, and one of the biggest problems is its discrepancies with the labour market. This is particularly evident in professional, craftsmanship, since we have witnessed for years that we do not have sufficient number of enrolled children or students in craftsmanship in relation to labour market needs. Now there's more to it than that. One reason is that we live in so-called. a modern society where young people look for some under quotes of easy and clean jobs or office jobs even if they are less paid. For years I worked both in vocational school and in high school and a trend among young people it is that few of them want to enroll in a craftsmanship because they consider it somewhat below the level, on the other hand you have a good part and parenting so often we hear that famous sentence, son, don't you suffer if Dad has already suffered, go to college and get a job. But it should also be said that neither the system as a system has contributed much to the affirmation of crafts and professions. We are missing today the baker, the butcher, the locksmith, the carpenter, the plumber, the gas installer of all those interests that are necessary for the normal functioning of today's society and when a plumber comes to you today that you will wait a few months then he will charge you for it. And rightly so because they're simply out of the labour market. But on the other hand, we are looking at this system of quasi promoting craftsmanship, and then we have the situation that on December 7th on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, a notice has come out that scholarships for deficit crafts interests have been lifted, with the reason that funds from the Operational Programme for the period until 2020 have been spent, and that the European Commission has not yet approved the funds for the period 2021 to 2027. In that period 2019-2020, over 8,700 scholarships were awarded to students who were educated for deficit craft professions totalling 162 million kuna. It was also granted 940 support to economic operators that made the total amount of more than 69 million kuna. The state budget took part in this with 15%. For something like this, for a measure like this that was launched, and suddenly abolished with hope that tomorrow they would be restarted and that these students would retroactively receive their scholarships, which is very questionable, the money had to be in the state budget. What image we send to these students, which we send to their families when we ask for one good measure that has caused the increase of students in craft professions, we interrupt with the reason that we do not have enough money or that they are not in the European budget that they are spent, and we are not able as a state to provide 100 million kuna for the next 2 years. And that's sad. It's sad, a series of parents called me on this particular subject because they think it's not right. Part of the kids signed up for this very craftsmanship and for these scholarships although they weren't something extra interested in them but that's one let's say extra stimulant. This, additions to this legislative proposal, states that for the first time a legal obligation has been introduced by the school, founders and restoring ministry of planning the enrolment of students in the professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations. This is nice, however, but who will agree to these students regardless of enrollment quotas to enroll in the requested professions. It is also mentioned that for the first time the Institute of Scholarships is mentioned in Article 36a, but it reads like this. Encourage the inclusion of participants in curricula for the acquisition of qualifications of relevant labour markets can, that is, be ensured, not necessarily, in the form of grants from the state budget, EU funds, the budget of units of local and regional etc. self-government. Which means that this is another article that can stand there, and it doesn't have to, it doesn't commit to anyone, it's not bad, but nobody's responsible, and everyone can take responsibility from the local level to the state's hand, so they can write, they can do it at the state level, we can do it at the local level, they can go regional and we can spin around all the time. Another problem that I hope will be solved by introducing this small graduation is that in a number of four-year professions, high school programs, economic schools and the like in areas where there are not enough students, you don't actually have credits. You are enrolling students with much weaker grades and a point threshold for one reason because you do not have enough students so that certain classes are not shut down or that there is no surplus within the teacher's staff. At the same time, you have students who are more realistically suited to their competences in craftsmanship but who are enrolled in high school, other four-year-old schools. In addition, you have certain schools that have previously introduced additional entrance exams, but that is in those environments where you have a high concentration of children. Unfortunately, you also have the middle of the Slavonia area where you don't have it. Here, there are certain shifts here but I'm afraid a good part of it will still remain a dead letter on paper and that we won't agree to additional enrolment in craftsmanship except that it's really good for me, which is that this practical teaching needs to be improved and that this quality should be raised. Here we will, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, give a few amendments to this bill, and we expect that part of the bar will be accepted in order to continue voting on the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92078	Now it's Mr. Damir Bakic's turn to speak in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, above all, I will say that we welcome the intensification that this law better regulates, above all, a practical part of the course in vocational schools, and that the advanced role and position of both mentors and employers where students perform professional practice or learn based on work is now said. Now here's where we see the problems. Article 5 discusses the quality commission, which is now reduced from 7 to 5 members, and is replaced by the fact that the director will now further appoint a self-valuation team composed of 3 members from the teachers and professional associates. School self - injury teams have existed for a long time, however, they were mostly inactive and merely figured out or fulfilled the form. It is necessary to strengthen their role and ask them for real content. First of all, it should be a commission, not a team, because it is a very large and fundamentally responsible job, and these people, their work and their task should be credited for it because working in this commission should be recognised either in the teacher norm or in some other way stimulated. It is also necessary to consider increasing the number of members of this committee to perhaps 4 as it has been, or possibly, to 5. Secondly, we believe that two members of the self-evaluation committee would, for example, The coordinator and his deputy should be members of the Quality Committee. The Self-Evaluation Committee would have its own voice in the Quality Commission, and the Quality Commission would have direct access to the findings and recommendations of the Self-Evaluation Commission. Finally, in paragraph 1 of new Article 12, we have as a loop because the self-valuation of the institution is being monitored and valued by the Quality Commission. Now, which means this evaluation, self-evaluation. It's not clear which instance it is. It is not really logical that the quality committee monitors and implements the findings and recommendations of the team or the self-infringing committee. Article 13 is amended as follows: It is said in paragraph 1 that a mentor who has an appropriate qualification and passed an examination proving to have basic knowledge of the teaching of pupils should be determined. It is now said in paragraph 3 that this examination proving the basic knowledge of the teaching of pupils is carried out in accordance with the competences of regulated specific regulations in the field of entrepreneurship and crafts and areas of education. It would be important to write here which specific regulations are particularly in the area of entrepreneurship and crafts. The employer now says he gets an important role and becomes a partner. It is absolutely essential to raise the quality of the employer's educational and professional capacity. It is important to educate them, monitor their work, design some system of relief for participation in the educational process probably also rewards for those most successful. Equally, it is necessary to design or improve the system of awarding mentors. On the other hand, it is unusually important to stimulate, identify and reward the most motivated and in this segment the most successful students. The practical work of students in vocational education is of fundamental importance, however, is a rare practice, at least so far it has been, that this practical work has only been carried out for forms, quite routinely without true engagement and employer and mentor, and rarely even students. It is essential here that the role as I have said not to the team but to the self-evaluation committee and the quality committee, which will follow the practical work and its results and evaluate them objectively. That's what I'm gonna say. In the current law of Article 27(2), the employer of the students may only be in charge of those tasks that ensure the acquisition of competence in accordance with the curricula and the contract for the implementation of practical teaching. I think this is particularly important here to point out and insist that this provision is strictly respected. Otherwise, in paragraph 1 of that Article, where the duties of the employer are cited and a new indent has been added to which the participation in the work of the final work is imposed as a duty. Now I do not know how appropriate this is, it is certainly appropriate to encourage but whether it is necessary to impose it as a duty especially as a duty for which we do not know which tools, which instruments will be monitored and controlled. Apropro that alinea is really ugly because it has to be said that something is done through the mentor. A mentor is a person and is not good for anyone to say for anything that a job will be done through a person. And in the end, two more things. It explains the proposed law for the first time introduces a legal obligation for schools, founders and a resolute ministry of planning to enroll students in vocational programmes in accordance with the HZZ's recommendations for education registration policy and scholarship policy. This is also recorded in Article 9 of this proposed law. It's okay, of course, to listen to HZZ recommendations, and it's okay to follow the needs of the market. That's not enough, though. A vision is needed, and schools need to be left free to recognize the needs of time and to be faster than the HZZ because the subsequent ultimate requirement that is put before education today is not to look back and try to catch a step with previously observed practice but to look ahead and train us for fundamental new knowledge and tools. So he can teach us how to live and act in a new technological and social landscape. With this in mind, it is certain that economic development is important and that market requirements need to be monitored, but it seems to me once again that we tend to forget about the broader role of education and the education of students in the care of professional perspectives, so whether schools are professional or general, that should be our first concern. Ensuring conditions for the full construction of a person, for the construction of employed, directed, conscious, creative and active citizens. We must not allow this actually primary task of education to remain here neglected and lost in the discussion of professional practice. And for that, however, it takes a lot more than an amendment to this or any educational law. Education needs to be truly understood as a basis for social value, as a fundamental social task. And that doesn't go with mere certifications. It is necessary to restore the reputation and improve the status not only of a material teaching profession and school as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92080	You, too. Mrs Katarina Peovic will represent the views on this proposal for the law of the HSS and the Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92081	Good afternoon. Here is one MP, perhaps even by chance, I would say something that would not often be presented in this debate, she said about this, if you're going to have trouble rebuilding your bathroom and you need masters, ceramics and plumbers you won't be able to get them and we have to deal with it legally, so he followed the end of the sentence, in other words we must legally force people to stay in these interests. What I want to refer you to is not that education alone has reversed that professional category and that professional profession, but that is exactly what the famous labour market has reversed and placed in unworthy conditions such a professional skill. Therefore, what should be warned here is that this famous alignment with the labour market which, throughout this legislative proposal, has everything to do with it should first and foremost be warned that the market is always secondary to the basic sciences that set the frameworks and which determine what and how to do and how to think about certain segments of life, and the market always comes after that, yes and no, not the other way around. There are no deficits, there are no shortages of workers, there are low-paid workers, and that's what I'm afraid here is not going to be clear enough at least to say it. Of course, it is good to better define learning based on work and that we should really do some relevant things in practice, but it is not about the market and its problems. If that means the scale of all things, if all is full of market glorification, say here the selection of qualifications is relevant to the labour market, for example, but without an assessment of the market itself, our economy and industry that has failed and more workers cannot afford a decent salary and decent working conditions. I would ask you how many colleagues and colleagues of your children are enrolled in vocational high school, and here we said that 70% of our professions are professional, and how many of our children are in vocational high schools. Let's not kid ourselves. High schools are something that means a future, vocational schools have devalued and they no longer have what, the importance they should have. It is said that there is a gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market, but it is not said that the gap is the consequence of low wages and really inhuman working conditions. It is said that only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people and that the main problem is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job, but it is not said what are the practical knowledge, how we will educate these people and what is most important is not the state of employment in us or that their position is much worse than the rest of Europe. That's why I purposely asked the secretary of state how much is there in the percentage of salesmen? So the sellers are that profession that dominates us, and it would really be, I mean one of the priorities if we were doing that skill educational education to analyze what professions we do that in what ratio. If it's mostly about sellers, they're at least looking for this specific education, skills-oriented means when they say all vocational education, everyone thinks of bakers on carpenters, plumbers, etc. Yeah. The sellers and the deficit of these professions in tourism lead us into some problems and in the concept itself means for which professions we educate in what proportion we eat. There is no workforce for sure means the most in tourism and it is hard to believe that schooling for work can solve this problem. It is also unclear how the quality of this education thinks to be raised purely technically if the quality commission of these changes is decimated means instead of 7 members now will have 5 members and so to speak, it is symptomatic who came out of this Quality Committee. These are teachers who are most important in teaching. And it's unclear how it wants to improve quality, if it means the profession from that quality check in some way singled out, marginalized that Article 5. He's covered by this criticism. Teachers have kind of pushed themselves into this school self-evaluation team, which, by my assessment, is at least what I am looking at from the very changes and the addition of the laws of a mere operative to carry out that self-evaluation. In addition, the profession rebelled and warned that it was not real. I would also like to say about the practical education that has been replaced by the term learning based on work, and it is nice that the work enters our laws, but I am afraid that it is only cosmetic changes that are mainly present in this change of Article 24 and Article 11 of the amendment, which defines learning based on work and its implementation, and I quote: "The learning based on work seems to me, however, only the cosmetic change in practical learning, and yet it is based on what we have been trying to implement in our education system since the 1990s. I know something about it because I also participated in the Institute for Social Research in this process, which means that these skills are targeted education, in this case it's dual education. It is done, meaning partly in the educational institution of the employer, and this is a feature of how education is taken from countries of the German speech area in which we like to see ourselves. However, such a type only survives if there are enough employers, quality employers, who can take over from professional schools. We need a sufficient number of craftsmen, meaning who are willing to receive students for teaching, which is the consequence of this problem and the weak labour market and poor working conditions in general. So if an employer in a store where there will be a lot of these vocational students has no conditions and pay, and now that trader takes a high school student to some alleged education, I think that some qualifications can be difficult to acquire and that it will be more going to be more about simply exploiting the student, and in principle it is already visible from the existing practice that the lack of such a workforce takes over by hiring students through a student contract which is, of course, cheaper to them. They'll be super cheap here because here we have a student fee of only 10% average salary in the first year 15%, in the second year 25%, in the third year of teaching, and I'm glad the secretary of state agreed with me, that when you have a third year already of that student, that student, that he's practically already an educated worker, and that the 25% fee is still a little too small. And now it's all in Article 27, and if I'm right, if I'm not corrected by an article, that's the first item that says, "The employer's duty to conclude the contract is," that's the first point three "to pay the consignee regularly for the contracted fee." So many have investigated and the HOK's research has indicated that not only are these low fees, but these fees are not paid to the greatest extent. And now, according to the law, it's out of the question that a student should regularly be paid a contracted fee. So we can really say that there is a danger that it is explicitly appropriate to the interests of employers and that a good part of high school students is transformed into a weakly paid, unprotected, tightly educated, and thus a low mobile workforce. Of course, both students and students are now filling these shortcomings with shopkeepers, not much to talk about. In the end, I'd just say something about vertical mobility. So our education system as convinced by my former colleagues is in relation to other systems, and also... research shows this better according to the vertical mobility criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our students of vocational schools still come to college in some far more developed and richer countries, unfortunately, this is not the case, and this vertical mobility is one of the guarantees, meaning justice in society. That should leave. So no vocational education should be reduced from 4 to 3 years. So if someone is, say, an engineer, he has to be able to sign up for engineering. It's the foundation of a fair social system, so educational, and we have to keep it. I say a very large percentage of 70% of vocational schools shouldn't just cheer us up. We should ask why that is, and we all say that we should extend, so from 8 to 9 years of age, this primary school education because we are the only ones in Europe who are eight years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92082	Thank you, too. Mr. Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92083	Thank you, well-respected chairman, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Short and clear. Sustainable improvement of education and education systems and thus vocational education is of strategic importance both for the development of society and for the development of the economy and for the personal development of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm just going to go through some opening statements that the esteemed secretary of state has brought out here. In the context of measure 2.2, investment in education, science and research in the field of professional education and adult education, interventions aimed at further harmonising the education system with the needs of the labour market are envisaged. So, with the development and promotion of new curriculas needed in the labour market, by establishing a strong framework of support for employers and schools where employers become partners with educational institutions, by providing support to students by establishing a scholarship system for deficiting interests, especially for students of vocational education systems in less developed environments and regions of our country. For the education system, it is certainly most important to recognise the current and future demand for qualifications that will be needed for economic development. It should not be particularly professional to conclude that the structure of the economy is changing according to the needs of employers, and in order to strengthen competitiveness in the global market, the structure of the necessary knowledge and skills is also changing. The maintenance of competitiveness is only possible if such necessary knowledge and skills are present in educational outcomes, standards and qualifications that lead to improved vocational education. Also, research conducted by the Ministry of Science and Education together with the European Professional Agency in the period from 2016 to 2018 does not show us any satisfactory data. The existing models of vocational education do not meet the needs of individuals and labour markets, i.e. there is a growing gap between the supply of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market. We have seen from the same research that there is a need for more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers involved in the education of students, and that clear responsibility for overall learning outcomes is not clear to all involved actors. Unfortunately, only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people. The main problem is another result of research, which is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job. In addition to this lack, I hope that we will also manage to provide relevant support mechanisms here to bridge the insufficient interests of the participants to participate in certain vocational education programmes, which are relevant for labour market needs. In this law, for the first time, we have also seen the introduction of a legal obligation for schools founders and resolute ministry planning the enrolment of students in professional programmes in line with the recommendations of the Croatian Employment Institute and this for education registration policy and scholarship policy. It is said that the Croatian Employment Institute brings that recommendation for each calendar year, and they define surplus and deficit education programmes at regional and local level. As one way to remove the still noticeable gap between labour market needs and the selection of professional programmes, for the first time here and saidly, the possibility of granting scholarships is prescribed. They can be provided by state budget funds, EU funds, the budget of the unit of local, regional and regional self-government, the own funds of employers, which will be quite difficult to implement, and how the bill cites other sources here. The mandatory connection between structural curricula and the Croatian qualification framework through the standard of interest is also foreseen as a key element of the link between the curricula and the needs of the labour market. Now just a few comments. This bill of law, so we have seen introductions and predicts many obligations and conditions for the employer himself. There is a small concern that a certain number of employers will simply give up making a contract because it will be too demanding, too complicated or sometimes too expensive. How these changes and additions want to ensure learning based on the work of the employer, and in most of the professional programmes, we propose to further consider the possibilities of financial incentives for employers to receive students to practice. The practice is unfortunately and sometimes often done on paper. A certain system of supervision and control should certainly be introduced, which will occasionally be able to check whether a student, or a student, is working in practice, for what he or she is trained for or simply spends a certain amount of time on purpose. Let us consider whether we can equip schools and school workshops for the purpose of practice and invest in mentors and clearly legally determine what their obligation is. Here's an example here from Zagreb County. There are not enough licensed employers here, so students should practice and have to perform in school workshops, of course, in case the school is minimally or sufficiently equipped for exercise and practical training. In professional curricula, a certain number of hours a year should be required by the employer. We are aware that learning is based on work invaluable compared to what we bring from the classroom, or laboratory. Here is an interesting example from the curiculum of computer engineering, unfortunately not one hour of learning based on the employer’s work is predicted. We also know that informational sciences and practices themselves change from day to day, so children who come out of such schools simply when they come to a workplace have to go through the whole re-acquaintment system and then, of course, it takes some time. It is not necessary to say that the quality of the professional willingness of completed students to take responsibility in the future workplace is sometimes not enough. All those who have ever done anything in any part of craftsmanship know professional schools on the labour market I will only give an example of sending chefs who do not know how to clean fish, ceramics who do not know how to mix glue, the builders were mentioned here, who learned from ancient textbooks of certain technologies that are no longer used, so unfortunately this leads to this data, these worrying data from all Croatian counties must be highlighted except Međimurska which is very interesting. Well, here, we just have a little more time to give you some information. Let's say from Krapina-Zagorje County in the Bedekovčina secondary schools and Predgrad for the professions of carpenter, glassmaker and waiter of zero entries. That's a terrible piece of information. In the Varazdin County of Ivanac, Varazdin, Marcan, Ludbreg and Maruševec for the interests of the parking lotetar, chimney, carpenter and gardener of zero entries. And now I simply don't read all these numbers to you, so zero is written all over Croatia and for autolighters, butchers, toolmakers, tailors, locksmiths, masons. I mean, these are publicly available data and anyone can download it from the Internet. Obviously, we want to or are not in a situation where children are, but also parents are underly motivated to enroll in vocational schools, and yet reality tells us very clearly when we descend to a pure reality, a moment that breaks our washing machine or our home machine, then it is one of the most important calls to some of our dear friends with a question of whether or not you know a good master. Unfortunately, the good master is getting harder to find, they're expensive. If most of them come, unfortunately, working outside, there is, of course, a systemic error, there is nothing we can do about it just by amending this law, but let it come. And so, my suggestion is that I'm a respected Mr. Secretary of State and said, if I can advertise Armed Forces and thus try to motivate young people to join the army, if I can advertise myself to many others, why in the end we wouldn't go public with parents and children to motivate and present to them crafts work, i.e. vocational schools as something desirable. Let's say for the beginning of a respected secretary of state, get some money out of the ministry so let's say for Mr. Huljić to write a poem, let's make sure that all the sister-in-laws love the builders, let's say. That might have some kind of concrete effect. Of course, as far as the proposal is concerned, we will wait for another reading and then make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92084	Ms. Marija Selak-Raspudić will speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92085	We don't miss a student who's going to enroll in vocational schools. As surprising as it may be for those who have not followed the system more closely. One of the few things in which we are at the European summit is precisely by the number of those who go to vocational schools. In this regard, the recommendations are to reduce the number of those attending vocational schools from about 70 percent to 60 percent in favour of general education. But we miss something else. We lack quality distribution within vocational schools in the sense that we recognize what professions are deficiting and what we should invest additionally in and we lack social recognition of the profession. This is the fact that we all testify that most of the masters who perform jobs, and rarely through the black market, which is also the result of this insufficient recognition of the profession, and a smaller number of those we can afford who are quite educated in terms of having passed this vocational education that they were supposed to do within their profession. What is our biggest problem when we talk about vocational education is certainly a drain of quality professional staff abroad. It is no accident that earlier research when we talked about requalification and the state of the Croatian labour market regarding vocational education has just helped us in these studies, the Embassy of the Republic of Switzerland and the Embassy of Germany. There are those who will know you very, very well. However, when we talk about vocational education within this legislative proposal, it is above all necessary to make a concrete contribution to this legislative proposal. We could've been on a tight schedule lately, and otherwise we've been hearing from the opposition about how we need judicial reform. It is overlooked that we are the root of this judicial reform that needs to happen in Croatian society in order to make it legally functional. We are the ones who produce the laws, we are the ones who amend the laws, and what happens here is that we rarely refer to concrete legal proposals and bring debates to general places, which is why we produce bad laws, which is why we cannot expect an effective system in practice. In that sense, though the opposition proposals are rarely considered, we should all act as if we are indeed legislators and responsible for the laws that will live in practice tomorrow. I would like to point out the following on the trail of the above. When we compare this law to other laws that also apply to the education system, there are certain discrepancies. For example, in these legislative changes and in the public debate, there is nothing about Article 34 concerning participants. Institutes for adult education carry out professional curricula prescribed for regular education. The law, Article 34(1) which is not subject to these amendments, should now state that the status of a regular participant is obtained by enrolment in an institution implementing a curricula for the acquisition of a certain qualification. The debate does not say that this article is deleted. Then this means that the Law on adult education does not comply with this law, i.e. that it is contradictory. The problem is to define the status of a regular student. This Regulation shall enter Law on education and education and Article 34 The law on vocational education should determine who is a regular student. This is very important, because let's say that in Puck Open School, we have children who go to the high school program and regularly attend it, and they don't have regular student status, because Puck is an open school for adult education. These provisions are in collegiate, so the provisions do not comply with the laws relating to education which, unfortunately, is not a rare practice when we even talk about a ministry that should be the crown of the education system. This is the Ministry of Science. I hope that, it may not be within this reading, but in some other legal proposals, it will be more urgent to bring it into line so that we can have laws that can live in practice. Secondly, what I find particularly important and problematic concerns the question of what do we even want with vocational education? In 2019 guidelines for the development of a network of school institutions and education programmes were adopted, where the number of vocational programmes and vocational schools are foreseen. Guidelines sought to reduce the number of available vocational programmes and schools compared to other programmes of the general education, high school, etc. Do we want to go towards an increase in vocational education, according to its rationalisation and the question that has not been opened at all in the debate, and we should talk about what kind of education in vocational schools we want and need? Are we going to make these children a fah idiots easily exploit the workforce without knowing the basic elements of history or give them an opportunity within the education system and appropriate curriculas that have never been broken down to the end especially when we have these experimental programs to educate themselves and some things that could be done to citizens in this political sense, and later allow those who wish to retrain to continue high school education. So, what do we want with vocational education? Then what seems most important to us and why we bring these legal changes is to align with the labour market. Professional education is primarily a question of markets, it is a matter of profession and it is a question of practice. In that sense, the most useful thing for us would be, instead of dealing with another legal amendment that I have previously stated is that we are not in line with other laws within the same portfolio, to finally implement something in practice. 2.25 billion kuna were provided from European funds for vocational education. How much has been spent? Where was your money used? What about bringing the labour market in line? How many licensed entrepreneurs do we even have available? We have seen observations that there are not enough in Zagreb County. If there are not enough of them here, what is the situation in the rest of Croatia. It states here that the Croatian Employment Institute will make recommendations for each calendar year and define what are surplus and deficit education programmes at regional and local level. That might make sense at first. Every year, we will coordinate with the labour market and then enroll children in vocational schools. However, clearly if the recommendations change every year, that when children come out of that system, these recommendations for them when they entered the system cannot be valid. And then we get to the other one, which is the question of how these recommendations will be implemented. And here you have a very interesting provision. So if you look at the key document on which it is based in the final line and this legislative amendment, which is exactly the document on our vocational education that has been made in line with the EU 2020. In years, then you can find information that the recommendations of the Croatian Employment Service according to government regulations are made let's put it this way projectionally. So, that the Croatian Employment Service should predict trends and based on these trends I suppose to write because that's only logical, you can't, based on the trend that today is to enroll students in the first high, and then when it comes out in three years, you have a new trend because you've changed it every year. Okay. We'll have some projections of the labour market. However, this document, which I have reviewed in detail, which calls on this very law, says that these recommendations by the Croatian HZZ of the Employment Service have been made qualitatively and should be more precise. What does "qualitative" mean? Is that descriptive? I don't know any more craftsmen, do I? Which should be qualitatively I don't know, but what's clear is it's not quantitative, what we'd expect is 50 roofers, we're short 30 plumbers, etc. And they're expected to be more precise. And now we're talking about how we're finally going to create a system that connects the labour market and vocational education, and we haven't yet developed quality recommendations that will allow some kind of projection of the labour market, based on which even the staff will be able to enroll. We can find all this within the document this law refers to. So more practice, more reality, and when we talk about legal changes then their alignment with all the laws that apply to the said portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92086	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, Mr Ostojic and Mr Hajdukovic will share the time. Here you go, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92087	... You'll probably agree that all the people, all the people around the world, have their own gold wire, they're all for something talented, but the obligation of our parents, our friends, our society, the Assembly is that of course our residents recognize that gold wire and that we don't allow it to develop their talent until the end. [[Specially enabled.]] Also, everything has its own lifetime. And you secretary of state have a lifetime of secretary of state I don't mean life. There goes the election, who knows if the vice president will be him. In fact, he will probably be, but some other parliamentary deputies probably won't have their mandates because we don't have a lifetime. This Mike, the microphone's gonna disappear, too. But only knowledge doesn't have its own lifetime. [[Intruder Radin: I thank you.]] The more you use it, the more it will help you, the more you use it, the more you have it. And so I'll repeat, put that knowledge at the beginning, knowledge, facts, and then work. Because knowledge is indestructible. If we were to use knowledge properly, we wouldn't have anti-vaxers or have much less, but we don't use it. If we had more integrity of honesty, we wouldn't be having these affairs that I'm reading today in the Morning List. But we don't have it! That's why knowledge comes first. There were four industrial revolutions steam machine, then electricity, then the information revolution in the '80s, now we're living the fourth, and there's the fifth industrial revolution coming. The industrial revolutions used to happen every 100 years. Interestingly, the average European lived worse and less than the European at the end of the 15th century at the end of the 18th century. In 300 years, quality has dropped, and thanks to knowledge, thanks to industrial revolutions, we have extended lifespan. What will happen to the fourth industrial revolution is difficult to say, but the fact that this period is getting smaller and smaller. 50 million people to get a phone took 75 years to get a radio, and it took 38 years for 50 million people to get a radio, television 14 years, and Internet 4 years. So I'm going to repeat the use of knowledge, so it's good that you went with this law someone told you that you didn't respect the procedure, so you should have gone even faster, you should have gone in a hurry to read, not to observe the procedure, of course you have to obey the law, but hasty, hasty, hasty, because we don't have time because, as Dretar said, a question that will develop. People believe that by doing so, 50% of the children who are in primary school today will not be doing the jobs that exist today. Well, that's terrible. And that makes sense. Look how many jobs there are, how many new jobs there are. Uhber driver no one heard he was going to be an uber driver five years ago, seven years ago. Producer podcast, blogger, come on, we're used to what's a blogger, a blogger who's on the video. So we're moving too fast. Go to another reading as soon as possible because it is our obligation to the people of the Croats to develop their talent, to develop their golden wire, or else we have failed in our mission. So, every industrial revolution, now that I'm saying it in general, my colleague Hajdukovic will talk about a concrete law she had and changed the world from the root. There are, of course, optimists who think that everything will go away and that we'll be much better off once the robots take over. Robots were otherwise the word of Czech origin in 1920 first appeared in terminology because they considered it to be an aide to man. The robot is the Czech. And the days we think the robot will replace us. On the other hand, there are pessimists who believe that we will connect with the robot and that who knows what to do and that they will stop the need for people. They won't, because we have knowledge. That's the key. It's the key if we want good to our country. I'll repeat the old Chinese, if you wish well to your neighborhood and plant rice to the state, but when the drought comes, people will starve and die, if you want to plant your country well, say, plums or corn for 20 years, but once again, life and plums will have to go away and throw away. But if you want to invest well with your country in people. And I read this law about you investing in people. And so go as soon as possible to rush reading as this is not just a matter of vocational education, this is simply a question of becoming 4 Ks as soon as possible, competent, quality, competitive and competent. Otherwise, we'll end the secretary of state in four Ks, crime, corruption, clienteleism that we see every day and conservativeism. You're not aware of what your responsibility is, you and the minister. Here you go, Domagoj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92088	Thank you very much. Otherwise it's already 8 K's 8 K's. [[Intruder: 8]] Here you go. More likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's a small school of reckoning. It is certainly good for colleagues and colleagues to discuss this law, it is certainly good to coordinate with the Croatian qualification framework. In fact, the Croatian qualification framework we often forget in this hall, but should actually become at least in my opinion the foundation of modern education because, as counterpart Ostojić said, the labour market is changing too quickly. It is simply that some of the conventional methods of reaching market requirements so far are no longer possible. And a lot will also have to be defined through informal education, informally acquired knowledge and skills beyond the classical education system. Of course, that does not mean that this system should be ignored and left behind and I also see in it the insistence of this law. But let me just express a few doubts about the next one. So when we talk about evaluation, I mentioned it in the replica, self-valuation should be given a more significant role in me because self-evaluation of education stakeholders, therefore both students and parents, employers then and schools should be the main indicator of how certain curriculaes or curricula, however you want to change and how certain, certain educations or certain occupations are further educated. The second thing is the entry quotas, namely HZZ as regards universities, have been issuing quotas and recommendations for years. Whether or not the universities consider it a rule of no. Well, there's also a question of university autonomy, but I'm afraid if we leave this regulation to HZZ again that the results will be weaker or less. Why? Because HZZ is usually only statistics that are accurate numbers of incorrect data and has very little to do with what the market actually needs. Besides, there's also a joke for you that you're still looking for a man whose HZZ found a job, which HZZ should be, or should be, adapting people to the labour market. Unfortunately, as some speakers have spoken before me, professional education in Croatia is not popular among students, not enough students and especially for some occupations. What can it do and what can it do, what can it lead to, what consequences can it lead to? So you had a British case of a very recent lack of drivers when the military had to go out or be engaged to solve some logistics problems. That may be the most visible problem, but Britain, while we're talking about it, has another problem, which is the chronic lack of tailors. That may sound funny now, but literally in Britain if you need to fix a piece of clothing you can't find who's going to do this to you. You can't, you just don't. I fear that in Croatia, unless we take seriously the popularisation of vocational education, unless we make it as flexible as possible in the implementation as he said, the secretary of state is waiting for a very similar fate. And that is why the responsibility of this law is greater, because with some traditional education, with the fact that this knowledge is gained by the work, that is, the skills acquired by practice. As always, the intention of the law is good, but implementation, at least according to what we've been able to look at so far, is something I doubt, and these are often practices that are signed, which are formally existing, and they're not actually there. And that's why we have a student coming out of the education system, and they've acquired the skills and knowledge needed to exist on the labour market. Here's what he said. I think fellow Dretar before me a few examples. So you have builders, for example, who learn about some materials and procedures that have long since been abandoned. Therefore, the person coming out of the education system must be trained to perform on the labour market, must have those skills that the employer requires because it is in the interests of both the employer and the student, or the future worker, and ultimately the economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92090	Thank you. Mr. Marin Lerotić will speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92091	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I am pleased to discuss this law today, and we have often listened from this pay phone on both sides of the free speech on how important education is, and especially professionally. We have emphasized countless times how important vocational education is because we have a chronic lack of interest such as tokars, autoelectricists, heating installers, air conditioning, butchers, locksmiths, and many other professions that are extremely important to us. Today on the labour market when I talk about Istrian County, the greatest need is for professional professions for those three-year-olds. We are currently forced to import labour for the needs of tourism, hospitality and construction. Especially when we talk about tourism, we should mention how important it is and what problems are faced by employers who, practically as soon as the tourist season is over, are starting to prepare and search for the workforce because we know how many families tourism is eating, but we also know very well what tourism means for the state budget. Every year unfortunately, the situation is getting worse, schools remain without students, which consequently means that we remain without certain occupations, which is not only bad but alarming. As for the very content of the amendments and the addition of this law in vocational education, we will ask ourselves two key questions at this time, so I will not owe it. The first thing is, under measure 22, investment in education, science and research in the field of intervention in vocational education and adult education, interventions aimed at further harmonising the education system with labour market needs and providing support to students by setting up a scholarship system for deficiting interests, in particular for students of vocational education systems in less developed regions and regions of the Republic of Croatia. What I want to mention here, and what I think is very important is that there are cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that are part of the eighth group of local self-government units and that are located in the first quarter above the average-ranked units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. We can therefore conclude that students from these areas who are being educated for deficits will not be able to benefit from the said support, and we believe that instead of less developed regions and environments, the legislator should prescribe that the emphasis should be on the students of the weaker property situation. Because this is not the first time in Croatia that the Istrian County is demoted through competitions, but to do so through children I find it degutant. And to be correct, it's not just about Istrian County, but we have some other counties and some other cities and municipalities. The second question I would like to raise is how do you think that the economic operators receiving students in practice will single out one employee to deal with only students with the management of all required paperwork, and do you really think that the employer will be willing to send it to the laying of additional qualifications required by the amendments. That's what I asked in your replica. And who will pay for that education did not get an answer to that question, but I believe that the state could cover that part and allow the employer to pay the cost to be educated by his employee. Because the employer does not lose in this way, if not the whole, then at least one part of the person who has a certain standard defined by the employer and cannot deal with the student as the amendments to the law provide. I agree, the thing is a lot more walking, or faster than it was before. But I definitely don't think this is a solution and that we need to listen to the field so they can give a much better solution than I think can be found. Because schools will be in trouble about finding an employer who will receive students in practice. And that's another change that detimises vocational education. As regards mentorship itself as well as the duties of employers proposed in Articles 26a, and Article 27(1), it is important to say that professions in professional programmes require practical training in licensed crafts, making it difficult for students and schools to find them. In order to obtain a license, apprentices must provide students with the conditions to acquire competences in the real working environment, including mentors with appropriate qualifications and pedagogical competences. Today, few employers want to take responsibility for teaching students without obtaining any encouragement or relief from the state. And I think that this problem can be solved through support from craftsmen and employers. I believe that different criteria should be laid down for the employer to receive students for a practical course such as the years of business of a particular employer, and to install this into a law to be freed from the passing of the exam itself. Finally, I will say that I consider it to be the makeup itself that will not encourage young people to enroll in vocational schools, professional professions, and to preserve together certain professional professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92092	Thank you. The replica of Mrs Radolovic. And I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92093	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238 was injured. Well, I would like to commend my colleague Lerotić for his professional argument and for saying that we must import labour in Istria County. I would also commend him for warning him that actually the state government is now holding back our ability to withdraw funds, but I will also appeal to him, to his party to remind his now independent mayor that the quotas for professional occupations have just been reduced to Istrian County by the founders, which is in this case the Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92094	I totally agree with you, but I have to give you a heads-up because you hurt the Rules of Procedure because it was a replica. Of course, I agree with Mr. Lerotic, too, with both of you, but you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Vice-President Sabina Vosovac will not harm the Rules of Procedure but will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. As stated in the statement of the impact assessment of the rules that had to be implemented before the movement itself in the drafting of the draft draft law on structural education will contribute to the reduction of the gaps between labour force supply and the demand for skills in the labour market, the quality of work-based learning and in the work-based and school-based learning will be linked, mechanisms and criteria will be established to encourage participants to select market-based qualifications and through the Croatian Qualifications Framework instruments to ensure the quality of learning outcomes based on work. And I believe that no one in this assembly would mind. Today, however, we are discussing whether the proposed solution will truly meet its objective. We have called here for a programme of the Government from 2020 to 2024, but also for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from 2021 to 2026 in measure, i.e. in Chapter 3. Education, science and research. I just remind myself that the outcome of all this is our Strategy for Science, Education and Technology adopted without a vote in the Croatian Parliament in 2013 which was already very clear on which direction all levels of education systems should be developed, including vocational education. So this work-based learning is not a newspaper, but I am sorry that from 2013 to today we have lost much and too much time. And when I see that through this law, it is still going to be lost for a year, because the adoption of four or five implementing acts, or sublegal acts, stemming from the law itself. One of the deadlines seems to me to be a 90-day deadline, they stayed for up to a year, then I'm pretty sad. I think you should work quickly and here I agree with my colleague Ostojić, but while respecting the laws, so I also apostrophe in my replica that you have bypassed actually the procedure that she was supposed to be and that in the end we have not sucked it out of the finger that it should look like this, but simply prescribed by the law. The Constitutional Court also brought down much less sublegal acts of the type of regulations if they were not consulted at a specified time prescribed as some kind of instructive timeframe, let alone for such serious matters. Well, let's do the metrics. I support full integration with HKO, or amendments and additions to this law, it is necessary to complete the process of harmonising the system of vocational education and training with amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework in a way that we are bound in a way to link professional curricula and the Croatian qualification framework through the standard of interest as a key element of the link between curricula and labour market needs. We also support the intention to improve the quality assurance system through changes and additions to this law. Likewise, the obligation of employers, but also mentors, which are in some ways part of employers’ obligations to learn based on work, is more clear. Equally so as to provide some kind of control mechanism that is not supervision in terms of educational supervision, but simply professional supervision. We also support the intention of making Croatia seriously concerned with human potential management, including through the serious and systematic creation of registration policies. But I'm not sure we'll do it this way. You have prescribed that founders who actually bring in consultation with enrolment schools for their counties include all vocational schools that should actually be consulted or respected through a legal obligation now recommended by the Croatian Employment Service. But what are the sanctions that they are subject to, what the ministry can and will do if some don't, because we know when we're getting a network of schools and programs that there are some problems, that it's not just that simple. And what's different about the decision so far, not the entry decision, but, say, in 2021, the planning of enrolment of students in the first grade of high school went to all the founders to plan the writings based on a number of regulations, among other things, we are now stressing that this law is important for Article 22. The law on education and education, that's what I was talking about, is not this law on professional law, the only one that prescribes the way of enrollment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The law on vocational education is now being influenced. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on crafts, but also on the basis of a decision on the adoption of a network of basic and secondary schools and programmes, based on the need for the labour market in local, local, regional and national levels, the basis of the number of free scientific places needed to carry out practical training and exercises at JMO, the basis of the number of free places to conduct work-based learning in economic operators when we talk about this second level, not in accordance with the recommendations for education registration policy and scholarship policy in 2021. And so all of this had to be covered last year, and that's how registration policies should be created. However, no one to forgive the expression was 5 percent dilated. What are the sanctions, which is the way that we will affect that now founders must not only respect the recommendations of the Employment Service but what they should do all the time, plan an entry policy in advance in accordance with the development programmes of their counties, if you want the region in line with economic operators, craftsmen, etc. It's kind of been meant to be. I'm just curious about the concrete answer that you think, I strongly support it, but what's the way to it because I've found myself in the situation that I wanted to do something, and I couldn't do it, and I couldn't tell anyone, and you're not going to sign up one class of gunmen because we just don't need it anymore. You said good intro. The system of vocational education is expensive, too expensive, it would be too expensive for one Switzerland when consciously for years keeping peace in chambers and jobs in schools existing we knowingly enroll in the programmes of students we know to send to the employment office, on the one hand. It cannot afford any Switzerland. And on the other hand, and if the labour market is needed here, we have this problem that simply the education system and the labour market don't talk, and what we produce even though it's ugly to talk about students as a product, but I didn't want to say it that way, but for which we train them to get out of high school education is not what, nor what they can be satisfied at some workplace, or what employers need. And in that sense, I support the intention and the intention to go in that direction, in that direction because this is actually very expensive, unsustainable and quite frustrating for these young people when after education they actually end up at the employment office. What I also think is necessary to see a little bit of this in which, since we give very many conditions, the obligation of employers, we are stressing in some way the criteria that I absolutely support because it is not right that those places where we learn at work or learn to be places where those children will actually learn nothing, where they will be treated as cheap or free auxiliary labor, where they will not be paid for it, where they will learn for the cook, and in fact they will only serve to wash those, the worst dishes, they will not learn anything about it, and such cases have been. How to protect these children, but also how to encourage employers to apply these strict conditions where they are very much expected to receive them for themselves and to encourage them. Are these some kind of new financial donations or rewards, are they tax reliefs? You need to think about it a little bit. And the second thing to think about is obviously this, this orientation that HZZ sees in the high school system is not good. And you need to see how to promote, popularize professional or some specific professional programs especially those deficiting already in primary school students so that we can explain to them and their parents that this investment in this kind of education is profitable because it will be sought and will in some way give the young person life, financial security but also personal satisfaction that they may be able to give their contribution to society, and tomorrow perhaps further education. Here are some of our suggestions on behalf of the club. Although we are in principle in favour of the intention of the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92096	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Škoro will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so in the first class, I'm talking about education, about vocational education, in the first hour of economics, it's said to children that resources are limited, in the first hour, because wars were never fought because of resources, but because of distribution. It says, take any book, take Samuelson Economics, resources are limited. And then we in this assembly are hearing about this law from this pay phone and it's being defended from this HDZ position that we'll see when this law goes into effect. Well, time is the resource of a respected secretary of state. Time is a serious resource. Here, I am this year 60 years old, this is my 14th Government of the Republic of Croatia. In 30 years of Croatian independence we have therefore educated me as, 7 generations in vocational schools and we are discussing this law saying that it was not good that we saw some problems in all of this. Mr. Pavić speaks and it is one of the conclusions of this debate that he was in Austria, he was in Austria in Siemens and he saw something there, so which he did not immediately come and applied it here in Croatia, he was also a minister in the extreme case. Which is why we had to do research from 2016 to 2018 to come to the conclusion, I will quote: ‘so together with the European Professional Agency’, it says here with your explanation, so ‘that the existing models of vocational education do not meet the needs of the individual and the labour market, i.e. that there is a growing gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market’, and among other things it says ‘yes and the stakeholders do not understand’. That's what it says about you. So time is a resource. You've spent two and a half years establishing the basis for changing this law. It's two-and-a-half years non-refundable, and what's going on as a question is, well, that research shouldn't have been done, you could have asked any of the grandmothers on the payroll, and she'd tell you that we lack a butcher, a builder, and that our vocational school isn't where it's supposed to be. We're the land where everything rings out at the alarm, we're the country in red! We are a country that had 4 and a half million inhabitants, now we have 3 million and 880 thousand. This has all happened in the last 30 years. We are a country that simply does not follow trends in the world and does not experience things in a way that thinks pro futuro and that in this assembly we are passing laws that do not need then interpretation and that people have to go to college additionally to understand our law. The time will show nothing, we must now decide how to do it and obey Mr Pavic and Siemens's model. But if you've already done that research question that imposes on how much money was spent on this research, maybe you could have done something for vocational schools. Who did it by order of which minister at the end of the line because it started in 2016? Is it Minister Mornar who started it, Minister Schuster or Minister Barisic? It is the same indicator of how we treat Croatian education. In one year, three ministers. The only constant there is Mr Stipe Mamic, who was there in 2004 until 2011, and then again in 2016 until today. And when he doesn't work in education, he works in the banking sector. That's true. And we have concluded that it is now an important practice, we have concluded on the basis of this research that it is very important for us to educate ourselves at work. It's a very important practice, but where practice is done either in cabinets, and you and I both know that these cabinets are missing. We have finished engineering engineers who have never seen a brick in their life except on the subject elements of high-building when they have to draw I don't know a reinforced concrete arch and then find out there that the brick is 6x12x24. That's our truth! And what did my colleague Ostojić say would it be given to people like that? Me personally like he wouldn't. And now we shall appoint mentors, or be appointed an employer. I've already talked to you about this, but what I'm interested in is how in professional education during the covid crisis did practice at all? On-line? We were masters who were during the covid crisis, we were now discussing on the Police Report for 2020, already in 2022 we are discussing this. We chased people with drones, we banned traffic from the municipality to the municipality, from the village to the village. How did we conduct the vocational education of children? And, of course, by this law, we make it important to HZT. We have already given importance to the Croatian Employment Service determines who can work in Croatia under the Foreign Law. Now he's gonna make that list of deficits, and then we're gonna have to do some things. And what's my biggest paradox of this law is that in a country where it's a shame being a locksmith, a hairdresser, it's us, we've made such a system. It's a shame. My kid didn't make it. In a country that's great from first grade kindergarten to today, mine's all 5.0 and then at the state's prom rock. It's us, it's our education system. So, we are now importing workers and HZZ decides on this from Nepal, from the Philippines, all the nearby countries, and you claim that this law is in line with the famous national recovery and resilience plan 2021-2026. There's all the money but there's nothing left for them to say to my colleague Pavlichek, there's money but there's no money. And you put a special emphasis on green and digital transition, on green and digital transition. This means that in vocational schools we will prepare children who will outlive us and who will lead this country for the world of the Internet, for all artificial intelligence, for the world of IT, software, robotics, installers and solar plant engineers and wind power plants. That's how it's supposed to be. And, of course, a lot of health workers. And those health workers we've demeaned in our country. Why are our nurses with tears in their eyes leaving Croatia? Well, because they're being demeaned here. They've been in school for 4, 5 years, and they've got a lousy salary. Who in the Croatian government understands them? In the Croatian government and in this Parliament when going outside then the travel order is fulfilled. These are people who do not fulfil the travel orders of the State Ministers. They're people with tears in their eyes leaving their country, and they're educated but nobody appreciates them. And you're talking about a green digital transition on the one hand, and on the other hand we're missing some other people. And in 2022, we're going to solve the issues that are actually pasture, and we're late. We're a country where graduates, graduates of politologists, economists and lawyers are waiters. We're such a country. On the other hand, there are people who are party-like and this policy that people see, which has nothing to do with law and vocational schools or anything we discuss here, actually implements HDZ, as well as when it is in power of the SDP, just as we can see in Zagreb. It's the basis of the whole story and it's a message that people need to know especially young people. A party card regardless of education, regardless of the profession and you will get bread in your hands in your opposite passport, but here we are part of the EU is enough and the ID card, the Schengen space will be extended and the path under your feet where you will appreciate your profession and there in the finish line where, as my colleague Pavić said several times I apostropheeded and I am sorry that it is not here, in Siemens to be done for decades, and that is that the older and capable master, mentor teaches the child, and afterwards we all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92098	Ms. Vesna Bedekovic will represent the positions of HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92099	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Agency for Professional Education, Honored colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education and in general on the system and the regulation and legal regulation of the system of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia, and I will remind myself that the system of vocational education in Croatia covers a total of 300 secondary education institutions and vocational schools, which perform 281 vocational programmes, I mean programmes in regular education. Similarly, in regular vocational education we have a total of 99,900 students in Croatia out of 144,000 students in high school programmes and we have had opportunities already to hear, and I will only repeat that according to these numbers, Croatia is actually Croatia when all of these figures are taken and compared to the figures of the EU member states, that Croatia is 4 per number, 4 per row among the EU countries by the number of their students who are included in the professional programmes. And of course I will remind you that we have the system of vocational education and training for the first time regulated, I am talking about the independent Croatian state of the Professional Education Act, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2009. In fact, it has organized vocational education, training and training, and I will remind myself that the Law on Professional Insurance so far has been updated if I am not mistaken 3, this is the fourth, fourth and fourth amendments, and therefore it is expected that these interventions in the law will contribute to the regulation and improvement and modernisation of the professional education system in Croatia because, as I said in one replica, and then I will have a real need to do so again. So, the results of research conducted by the Ministry of Science together with the European Professional Agency from 2016 to 2018 have shown that, therefore, our model of vocational education in Croatia has become quite obsolete and what is important does not satisfy the needs of individuals or labour markets. We have indeed an increasingly pronounced gap between one side of the offer of qualified workers, on the other side of their real demand on the labour market. We also have a strong expressed need for more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers who should therefore be involved in the education of students. And what is particularly important to me is that this research has shown that the responsibility for overall learning outcomes that students receive or should receive after completed vocational education is not clear to all the actors involved. So, no school institutions, he means curricula that's out of date and no employers. And among other things, the results of researching employers' views have shown that only one third of them are satisfied with the level of acquired competences of students after the completion of professional programs and, as employers stress, and I think we are also aware that there is a lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job because we rarely look at our private lives when you call into the house today, you first find it difficult to get it, second of all, that you are not very happy with the work done in terms of the expertise of doing, the expertise of the job done. And therefore, the expectations are that this law, or these amendments, and complement our Croatian system of vocational education, are primarily modern, flexible and flexible, both examples and adjustments of the time in which we live. Of course, the changes don't go overnight and it's about the process and for that reason it's important to analyse between the first and second readings all the provisions of this law because here's a moment to remind. Therefore, for the first time the proposed law introduces a legal obligation for students to plan for professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations. Of course, so far someone has talked about it, I think colleague Glasovac, the registration policy has been conducted in cooperation with the HZZ, but this time in this law is specifically and strictly cited as a legal obligation, so not only for schools, but also for founders, but also for a resolute ministry. What is important to emphasise is that, for the first time, the law introduces the possibility of granting scholarships that can, therefore by law and saying, be provided from the state budget, EU funds, units of local (local) self-government, the means of employers or from different other sources. What I think is extremely important is to regulate the mandatory integration of the professional curricula and the Croatian qualification framework through the course of the standard of interest and the standard of qualification as key elements which therefore maintain the link between the curricula and the needs of the labour market. What I think and I think is very, very important and here at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community we really share an opinion that is the introduction of a self-valuation process into institutions for vocational education and the definition of clear responsibilities in this process which will certainly contribute to the quality of the institutions themselves, i.e. the schools themselves. Further programmes shall be deployed to sectors in line with relevant interests based on the national classification of professions. It's just as important. Of course, regional competence centres, a particular chapter, i.e. a particularly important part of the law, which provides that they can, through a public private partnership, provide means for, for example, working machinery, equipment and some other conditions for learning and mastering basic skills in professional programmes. Of course, introducing mentors to employers, prescribing his obligations, his duties in working with students. Of course, behind these, so defined articles in the law are actually a desire to achieve more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers. More clearly they prescribe and extend the obligations of students who go on learning based on the work of employers, which is the expression of learning based on work we are here how much I have followed there has been a lot of debate. I put that actually learning based on work and learning based on knowledge in our system of vocational education should be evenly redistributed. Maybe I'll talk about it more in an individual discussion. And what I think is important is the regulation and the possibility of professional supervision of the implementation of this work-based teaching by employers, that is, the practice of employers, which I think is very important. That wasn't the case until now. And these are just some, here, given the time available, some of the points of the law that we think are important and, of course, welcome them. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Education in First Reading. Of course, until the second reading, some more things will be crystallized. What is good to remind is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources because they are already provided within the Ministry of Science and Education within the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. And here's with the corresponding sums in the state budget for 2022, 2023 and 2024 so for 2022 about 250 million with an increase of 2023. 279 etc. with next year's projections, and I'm not going to repeat that now because you have a chance to read it in materials. Final The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92100	Thank you. The Club of Representatives of CENTRA and GLAS will be represented by Ms Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92101	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the Law on Professional Education in this form proposed to be worn, so some improvements to the existing law. But we don't think it goes deeper into some fundamental changes in vocational education. To increase the quality of vocational education, the structure of the entire system needs to be changed. In 2014, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for education, science and technology that discusses priorities and measures to improve pre-school, primary, secondary education, higher education, lifelong learning and adult education, and science and technology systems. The reform priorities highlight the flexibility of vocational education through selectivity and modularity, ensuring general education and obtaining key competences as the basis for further education and lifelong learning. It also provides for the introduction of work-based learning in all vocational education programmes to facilitate the transition of students from education systems to the world of work. The overall curricula reform for early and pre-school and secondary education and education began as the first measure of realising the education, science and technology strategy, but unfortunately it did not live in its fullness. According to the programme of development of the vocational education and training system by 2020, the list of priorities whose solution is not visible in the steps proposed by this law is listed. Some of the above priorities are to improve the relevance of vocational education and training in relation to the labour market through the establishment of a rational and effective network of vocational schools and programmes, and to improve the quality of vocational education and training. It is necessary to start from changing registration policies through which to increase the attractiveness of vocational education and to adapt them to labour market needs. According to the class year '20-21. As many as 70% of our students of the final classes of vocational schools are enrolled in high schools, which is an indication that vocational education in its primary function of acquiring professions or occupations is not attractive enough. It is necessary to clearly identify indicators of quality monitoring of vocational education and training, and to define procedures for improving systems based on measurable indicators, since data on the quality of vocational education and training are currently not used as the basis for planning and decision-making, although the existing law defines the need for a single database for information monitoring and quality management. Increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and training is also the goal of European policy since the beginning of the Copenhagen process in 2002. The Georgia Declaration states that by 2020 European vocational education and training systems should be more attractive, more relevant, more career-oriented, more innovative, more accessible and flexible than in 2010. It also states that taking into account the role of vocational education and training in European societies and economies, it is essential to ensure the sustainability and excellence of vocational education and training. The statement to raise the attractiveness of vocational education and training sets out the need for different activities that may include public campaigns, competitions of students and the like. At the heart of measures to raise the attractiveness of vocational education and training in the Republic of Croatia is to raise its reputation and promote vocational education and training as a desirable career choice. Information and career counselling is needed for individuals to manage to choose appropriate education and employment to contribute both to the development of the community and the economy at local and national level, and to help bring education into line with labour market needs. It is therefore necessary to improve the system of professional guidance before and during vocational education and training, and in particular in primary schools where students will be able to detect, so to speak, a tendency to certain professional professions. There is also currently no appropriate mechanism for monitoring the employability of secondary vocational school students, which would give a clear picture of the need for vocational education or the relevance of existing education programmes, and contribute to ensuring the quality of vocational education and training. Furthermore, the concept of professional curricula needs to be substantially changed, and we have already talked about this, i.e. introducing a significantly higher choice, students of three-year schools who attend 5 days of teaching and Saturday practice, the question arises if the worker is entitled to 2 days of rest why, weekly, therefore, why the same rights do not have students. Students of three-year professions should reduce the number of classes in school and increase practice to at least 2-3 days a week. The experience of persons who have been educated in Western European countries speaks of significantly greater selectivity and orientation on the profession. For example. in Switzerland you have students of vocational schools who spend 2 days a week at school, 3 days with an employer in teaching. After finishing high school, they are thus prepared for direct participation in the business process. In Finland, you have a theoretical class one day a week, and the rest of the days are practical classes that many professional classes cover through work. Therefore, for any specific changes it is necessary to increase the number of hours of practical teaching and to reduce the number of students in classes or to increase the number of classes in order to increase the quality of the teaching process. It is also important to work on the quality of practical teaching. This law tries to do something about it by introducing additional obligations for mentor masters. It should be recalled that the ministry is early 2016 In accordance with the Law on vocational education, the programme of obtaining pedagogical competences for professional teachers, co-workers in teaching and mentors introduced into the programme, however, because of the limitations of the legal provisions of that programme was too demanding for mentors, and its implementation was difficult. Therefore, although the changes offered by this law regarding mentor’s obligations are heading towards increasing the quality of practical teaching, there is a concern that they may further make the whole process of maintaining professional practice more difficult. Quality building procedures should be regulated legally in agreement with employers in order to achieve the consent of all stakeholders of this process. By increasing the quality of practical teaching, it should also introduce what I have asked in the replica, so it should be considered as a working experience in employment, allowing young people to be more competitive in the labour market after completing their education. In the European context, the internationalisation of vocational education and training plays a very important role, as well as the promotion of student and teacher mobility, which is highlighted by a number of European documents. There is a need to carry out a series of activities to help strengthen the capacity of stakeholders in vocational education and training for international cooperation and project development, and to strengthen awareness of the need for internationalisation of vocational education. It is necessary to ensure appropriate and more appropriate conditions for the participation and implementation of international projects through the resolution and adequate awarding of persons in charge of the implementation of the project in vocational education institutions, and to enrich the public offer of professional training and the improvement of a number of high-quality content directly related to internationalisation and international dimension. In the Republic of Croatia, this area needs to be promoted more strongly and more adequate support at the level of the entire system. Schools involved in projects of international mobility of students and teachers face difficulties in organising longer mobility periods in the organisation of teaching, administration of allocations, and motivation of teachers to participate in projects. There is a significant space for strengthening the capacity of schools, for participation in projects, for improving the availability of project results and raising their quality, including public and economic sectors, and for better networking of potential applicants. A greater number of national and international projects would increase the attractiveness of vocational education and, by connecting with the real sector, enable students to be more employable and competitive in the labour market after the educational process has been completed. From all of this, therefore, we believe that the Law on Professional Education, although there is some progress, should actually be complemented and enhanced and more clearly defined concrete measures and more courageously moved towards change in order to increase the attractiveness and quality of vocational education and better link to labour market requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92102	Thank you. We move on to individual debates, with Mr. Rae Šimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92103	Thank you, Your Honor. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues here is a system of vocational education and training that is extremely important in order to enable young people to learn, think, improve and adapt to constant changes and new challenges and address the biggest problem, which is the non-compliance of educational offers with the labour market. We cannot actually influence the market by joining the EU, given that supply and demand are such and everyone goes after where he will be better. The fact is that the system of education and education in the Republic of Croatia is such that it gives excellent experts and that they can find their place on the labour market. As Croatians go to Europe, Europeans go to America, Americans go to Australia, and so the openness of the market is such and simple what we can do is invest in vocational education, which this government does under measures 2020. – 2024. where certain resources will be provided to improve the curricula for qualifications required on the labour market, as well as to help vocational education in less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia. And I would add that it is even more important to help students who are weaker in property. They certainly chose the profession they loved and would be very bad if these disciples would not support themselves, which is to give them a scholarship so that they could achieve their goals. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-'26. activities are also planned in the vocational education system aimed at better linking vocational education and adult education with the labour market through further improvement of technology systems with the development of new curricula. What may be important here to highlight, and when it comes to vocational education, it is necessary to create a new measure of schools with the aim of reducing the number of sectors and the number of professions where we are actually in Europe that we are among the first. In 14 education sectors, we have 400 professions, and European countries have about 200 and some occupations. This certainly needs to be changed and interests more attractive in order to compete with the labour market. We know that we have no waiters, no carpenters, no builders, no operator, etc. today, and there are no nurses in the five-year system. And as far as the study is concerned, we don't have medical students, teaching professions of chemistry, mathematics, physics, biology, logos, information and rehabilitators. These are, these are things that are very important because we now have to work to motivate students in any way to come into these occupations so that in the end the market can survive. And the most important thing for a system of vocational education is to identify the current and future interests in those qualifications that will be needed for the economy and not only for the economy but for all areas of social, social activities. The adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law brings about a perspective that will allow for key, key changes which will, in turn, concern strengthening work-based learning with a view to raising quality. These amendments, as defined in Article 25, will only mention Article 5(3) of the Quality Commission, are intended as a body which will exercise internal control independently of the Director, and this proposal puts the Director at the head of the Commission. Whether a possible conflict of interest may be discussed here, or Articles 13 and 14, under the new 26 and 26a. here is the question of mentoring students, the question is whether the employer will separate the worker who will do all these activities and that no one will participate in giving him compensation for a job that works. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92104	Thank you. Thank you very much. You have several replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92105	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Simičević, well here you are practically your entire life in education and follow the situation not only now but also before and before independence and independence, so I am interested in your one aspect of it, so we see that there are significant shifts here in the legislative framework, so the strategy, the programme, changes and additions of the law, scholarships, the attracting of young people, and we see that in some ways it has come into play here and that it has become a deficit of these professions or that it is being sought now. However, we have a problem with young people leaving for higher wages precisely with the knowledge of the profession in Austria, Switzerland, Germany. Certainly, these changes and additions will also help young people stay here, so can you say what you think about these changes and the additions that will contribute, or what is most important to be made?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92106	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92107	Thank you. Well, yeah, it's that I have a magic wand that would be good, but the fact is that we have schools in Croatia that are extremely good. I'll mention the school in Zadar, which is equipped with modern technology, and all those students who enroll in maritime school find their place on the labour market. We also have other vocational schools. It is simply necessary to invest and should give students the opportunity to achieve their goals. We have an awful lot of students who want to be craftsmen to say so and who feel good, but whether we are now really, and able to pay in terms of the labour market. I'd like to compare it to football now. You have an open market where someone pays a player so much, someone pays so much, someone who's weak he can never afford it. So unfortunately, the openness of the market requires these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92108	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Mr. Luka Brčić, not sorry, Anita Pocrnic Radošević, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92109	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Simičević, here is a clue to what you have now responded means we have two basic facts, which is that we have a marked lack of interest in enrollment in professional professions throughout Croatia, and on the other hand we have employers who believe that students of insufficient competences are coming out of school, which includes mostly a lack of practical skills and we come up with structural unemployment, meaning when we have unemployed persons, but they are not suitable titles, occupations, relevant competences. Well, we are aware that all of us and our legislator need structural reform of the education system, and that this bill today is also on track, and all in order to ultimately strengthen the economy that is resting on the workforce. So do you feel that this bill today leads to this and that some shifts will be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92110	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92111	Thank you. Certainly, the legislative framework is very important, and without it, it could not actually improve vocational education. In fact, the fact is that we have fewer children, it should also be acknowledged that some, some occupations that, today, children are trained to actually have difficulty achieving their goals on the labour market. So we should replace or offer new occupations because we heard that the industrial revolution used to be, that today knowledge is practically every 5 years. It doubles, and in the near future, every year. So, we need to keep up with time, but we also need to be a step ahead of time so that we can offer because those kids who have enrolled primary school today question whether there will be 10% of these professions that are now on the market, which they should be entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92112	Thank you, time. Mr. Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92113	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague, I'd like to start as a suggestion, as well as a question, and I'm interested in your position as an example of good practice, and it's a health school in the city of Split. That school was built about 7-8 years ago. And we can certainly say that she is a centre of competence, and we know that we need medical staff, nurses, medical technicians and her analysis schools have come to the conclusion that a significant number of students come for example from my Chetin region, so that they had an initiative, we as founders, then I was deputy mayor and the Resord Ministry we accepted so-called. dislocation means enrolment in Sinj to a craft technical school that has never engaged in such activities of any class and has proved to be a good solution for parents and students themselves. So I'm interested in your opinion and your position on the dislocation of such ones I'd say one general interest in the entire Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92114	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92115	Thank you. Yes, if this is good in practice why not, we would do so today because I was talking about a network of schools really need to do so, so that those kids from Sinj and the Cetina landscapes are allowed to stay in their homes because that elementary school, if there is no elementary school in the village, then the village is being shut down, and it would be different for the high school, since we are not so rich as to have a certain high school in each place, and the fact is that we need to do centres of excellence where children would go to those schools. There are examples and there were before that schools on the islands were dislocated, but they were only the first two years, and then the rest of the education continued in the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92116	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92117	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Simičević, here is an important emphasis on increasing practical knowledge, as you pointed out in your debate, on a better connection of exactly vocational education with the economy, which I think in the government's 2020 to 2024 programme, is not a very good thing to the facts here, and I think we can be denied or confirmed by the ministry, we can't talk about less professional professions because statistically I think there are more than students. But here is the emphasis exactly what the law does, which is that we need to build the professions that are more needed by the Republic of Croatia, we need to do it on purpose and we need to connect it to the economy, then there won't be any problem with mentors or other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92118	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92119	Yes, it's always said that in high school everyone, all students, which is not true, we even have fewer, fewer enrolments in high school programs than in Europe. So it's not about that. It is likely that children are enrolled in professions that do not have a future in the labour market. Now, how, how, how to create all these occupations attractive, whether they matter to employers or not, it's also possible, you can see, but the fact is that today we have a lot of people who have completed some professional occupations and are working as waiters or waiters are finished so they work like I don't know anything else. There is plenty of space and sure that this time that is ahead of us and this legislative framework should also make a move and what is most important to give, pay a man for a quality job he does. It's my only prerequisite. And we... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92120	Time. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92121	Thank you very much. In your individual debate, you have highlighted the importance of identifying current and future professions, which will be important and are now important for the economy. The fact is that we have these 300 total vocational schools in Croatia and 281 professional programs. In practice, a really common situation overlapping programs that are rarely questionable to us. On the other hand, we have a duplication of the same programs in different areas of the Republic of Croatia, and in this way we actually wanted to or did not want to admit we produce a surplus chamber. In that sense, you spoke of a network of vocational schools as a need to sort of introduce order. We have great examples, you've set an example of the Zadar Maritime School, I'm going to say an example in my county of professional school in Virovitica, excellent vocational schools in Pitomaca, etc. I'd like to know what you think is necessary. Besides the network of vocational schools, introduce a network of programs, professional programs? [[/Intruder: Time, I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92122	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92123	I thank my colleagues, that we are witnesses here let's just take every county from which we come, and we will be witnesses that there are schools that have the same practical interests as the legacy of some of the past times, but the fact is that this problem should be addressed as well. So, I think there would be sociological and other problems there again, but the fact is that this situation that we now have with our school programmes should certainly take a step back, although in one county that I don't know about 100 kilometers of space so that these interests can be placed in one school, another occupation in another school, and in such a way perhaps, you might gain quality and greater competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92124	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Šimičević, Ministry of Science and Education, together with the European Professional Agency between 2016 and 2018, conducted a study that actually showed that there is a huge gap between a qualified workforce that comes out of vocational schools and what the economic sector actually needs and that it is somehow important in the future to establish closer cooperation between employers and vocational schools themselves. Employers also stressed that the problem is also the competence of those who leave vocational schools that they simply do not have enough knowledge and skills to respond to the necessary challenges. I am interested in what we can do about this matter so that these practical knowledge acquisition programs may be further strengthened and what your knowledge from the field is whether employers are happy to respond to the calls of vocational schools to provide adequate practice to students who They need to pass that practice in order to be qualified afterwards. [[/Intruder: Time, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92126	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92127	Yes, thank you colleagues, that's a complex question. The fact is that our crafts are dying out and that there are fewer opportunities to achieve this practical work. Here we were in the benches a little while ago talking about how it was, I'm not nostalgic for some time, but how it was before. So, three days ago, it went to school, three days in practice, and certainly everyone who went to vocational school has mastered it. Today, employers are extremely happy when they can get a high - quality student who is willing to contribute to the adoption of new skills so that he can be competitive tomorrow, and therefore this employer will certainly keep him to himself because he saw that this is a responsible person, worth it and that he can bring him new, new values. So there are employers who want to take students, and clearly those students who are worthy, who are working, who care That's the kind of profession they're getting schooled for. [[Intruder: Time.]] to master all of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92128	And the last replica, Vice President of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92129	I agree with my colleague Simičević with a very, very good part of your presentation, and I think that the key is actually in vocational education just to ensure quality because it is quite unequal in the Republic. You and I are lucky to come from the county where we can proudly be proud of both the maritime school and the late director Svetko Perkovic with our team and the medical team on Mr Vidaković and Vice Vlatkovic's vocational school with Mr. Tomčić at the head because these are people who, although some 2, two of these schools will already have and will officially become centres, regional centres of competence, but they already are. They already live, they are competitors and can be a role model for many European schools, and I think that both the leadership and the team are very much. And how we can use these very people, these experiences and knowledge of individual schools, to implement them to those who are a little behind Or they don't know how. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92130	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92131	Thank you, colleagues, for saying everything, we all know that these schools are great and that they do a responsible social job, but the fact is that you mentioned the people who run that school. So no, not all directors who deal with embezzlement or this or how they like to show themselves in the media but that directors are responsible people, hardworking people who are first in school and who can do something different from those of average schools with their enthusiasm, work and pawning. And yes, the fact is that the maritime school wasn't like that at first, but later when the man who wanted to work came and recognized the market he achieved all the goals and I am also very, very sorry that our friend was gone so that we could learn from people like that. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92132	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92133	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, which regulates vocational education, training and training. The Ministry of Science and Education conducted research together with the European Professional Agency, which pointed to an increasingly pronounced gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market. It is good that there is research that proves this, but the above facts and significant problems of the non-compliance of the education system and the labour markets are aware of all those who are involved in education, employment, persons seeking employment and employers who are seeking labour. It is a system whose problems reflect society as a whole because ultimately the education system, in this case vocational education is the first step in development and in general maintaining the economy of our country, and thus the standards of our citizens. I will look back on one concrete change proposed by this law since there are more and I can't look back on everything and point out what a forwarding ministry should certainly pay attention to given the specific situations in the Republic of Croatia. So there is a legal obligation for schools, founders and a resolution ministry to plan the enrollment of students in vocational programmes in line with the recommendations for education policy and the HZZ scholarship policy. Now what are those recommendations? It is therefore a document on which, on the basis of the 2010 Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2010 Regulation, areas and offices of the HZZ in such a way as to carry out an analysis and predict the needs of labour markets for individual titles and to make recommendations for education policy and scholarship policy. They show only the surplus and the deficit of the profession. Changes in education policy based on HZZ recommendations should reduce structural discrepancies between labour supply and labour demand, which is one of the main long-term problems in the Croatian economy. This alignment with the labour market is particularly significant in smaller areas in order to absorb the existing low labour market and the same students. However, these very small environments have the biggest challenge to adapt to existing requirements. So I will highlight my Ličko-Senj County where there are currently 400 students of 8 classes who should enroll 1 grade of secondary school next year, which is only 1% of all students in the Republic of Croatia. These 400 students mean 17 classrooms if they follow those recommendations or obligations to make up the class department 24 students. So it's in the county that stretches to 5,353 km2, it has continental, coastal and island parts. This results in a further reduction in the number of grade departments in relation to the existing situation. The difficult environment and spatial dispersion, so one part of the students from the area, say the towns of Gospić and Otočac, travels 30-40 km. I also have to stress the fact that there is a chronic lack of expert staff in schools especially in smaller environments, so the question is how to ensure that there is compliance with recommendations if schools are unable to provide human resources for the introduction of new education programmes. In the smaller areas of the school are also polyvalent, which means that they provide education services from different sectors, are not equipped as specialized schools and is difficult to upgrade new programmes and professions in such schools. And almost all schools currently in Lika-Senj County are mostly educated in surplus professions. Also, there are few new, few licensed employers where it is possible to practice professional practice. So I wonder, I'm sure there are problems like this all over Croatia, but I'm sure Lika-Senj County is really specific on this issue and the question is how will it allow such schools to coordinate with the labour market or respond to local and regional needs. Is there any possibility that such environments can be treated differently? Whether additional funding will be provided for such areas in order for schools to be able to introduce new education programmes and monitor labour market needs as it is one of the most important things to provide adequate education to ensure employment and labour. So this is no longer just a matter of education and labour markets but a demographic issue. The question of survival and the rest of the population especially in rural areas. Also, the law provides for improvement of conditions development of regional competence centres [[I'm sorry, time.]] Okay, now I'm not here. [[Intruder: The Time of Mrs. Radošević.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92134	You have replicas, however, stay. Mrs. Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92135	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Pocrnic Radosevic, would take the opportunity to stress that the decision by the Ministry of Medicine School of Ante Kuzmanić in Zadar is also the school I attended appointed with 24 other vocational schools to the regional centre of competence in the health sector for 5 counties, including the county from which you come Ličko-senjska. Here, I believe that these investments will improve the quality of vocational education, and provide our present and future students with relevant practical skills in vocational education in order therefore to increase their opportunities to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92136	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92137	Thank you, colleague Baradic. Here I was just starting to talk about regional competence centers. It is clear the same, we said already there are in Croatia more, here is the Varazdin County has 12, Lika-Senjska has none. The same problem arises because it turns out that smaller environments and can't be or have not at the moment become regional centres of competence, but perhaps here from the ministry we could appeal to you that even smaller, smaller environments can become regional centres of competence in a way that is gravitating towards them from other parts. In this way, it would be ensured that children from smaller backgrounds do not go around, and that on the other hand, this one network of programmes is also created by certain parts of the country so that all children can get the same quality of education in some ways. Because everything in the regional centre, let's say, in Zadar, those students who are in Gospić and go to medical school are not available because if they are not at the place where the regional centre is the chance to use it, they are reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92138	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92139	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your presentation you have just mentioned the preparation of small environments on the example of your county and what is missing, so you mentioned the infrastructure itself, but also the cadre. We must also stress in this debate the money for NPOO for 2021 to '26, can now be used to build new and more modern secondary schools and competitions I think it goes quickly, it can in the final presentation state secretary mention something, and just the new modern secondary schools something that Lika-Senj County needs to do. Normal founders here need to engage in time and see their needs where they have everything prepared, where they can jump into themselves, in the competition itself and use these funds and build exactly these new modern schools. So here we go. and it's up to us here especially because we come from all over here to point out, but it's normal for the ministry itself to represent what all the funds are going to be able to use. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92140	Now is the time, thank you. Thank you. Here's an answer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92141	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Yes, you said well, the NPOO funds are planned for, for the development of vocational education, however, it is certainly necessary to include as many local communities as possible because I also don't believe that the ministry can know what our problems are and solve and we simply need to be aware of the situation in which we are located and to set priorities for certain counties, in certain areas and thus create regional centres of excellence. If Lika-Senj County has focused on agriculture why not be some regional centre of competence for agriculture because we have thousands of OPGs, but we don't have a farm school. So, in some future, of course, we're going to miss qualified workers from that area, and right now, when we have NPOO funds, it's a chance to, to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92142	Thank you very much. Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I would mention here one very well perhaps not so much in a large volume significant, but by its importance and by one social character a very important segment of education, and we know that many vocational schools, at least from the county from which I come, have this segment of education, which is the education of people with disabilities in development. We didn't get a chance to hear it mentioned here, or I missed something. I believe that these changes and additions will be represented equally by these members of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92144	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92145	Yes, thank you, colleague Brcic for that question. Yes, I have not noticed that today, colleagues have touched a lot on the subjects of people with difficulties who need special, special schools for, for their education. And there is just like everywhere, which is the middle of a smaller problem is bigger because children from small rural areas here are like Ličko-Senj County high school education for children with special needs is not at all, they have to go somewhere further and there is here I am aware that maybe they won't open up some special grade departments or something, but they certainly need to adapt the programs to those children. There is this system of assistants, but it is still a small selection of occupations for, for those children in whom they can be involved and often is not even in line with their real needs because the question is whether they can do it, what they can do at home, whether they can use it afterwards at their workplace if they have it at all, and leaving home for such children is certainly difficult and there we should certainly pay attention to these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92146	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92147	Thank you. And the esteemed colleagues here are mentioning him in the studies, so different studies are from county to county because, of course, this development of the county is different. You're coming from Lika-Senj County which really has the consequences of the Homeland War, damaged schools and economic operators scattered, so I'm curious to know how today in your county there's a connected labour market with the owners and what branch of the economy is developing in your county? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92149	Thank you, colleague Budinsky. Yes, as far as my county's labour market is concerned, for many years, it's been falling a little bit, I can say, because there are fewer and fewer residents, fewer and fewer students, employers are finding skilled labour more and more difficult. So we also have this problem that we have small schools that are scattered, children are quite far away and then children often decide to type in what is closer to their homes and I believe that this development of new programs and networks and the introduction of new occupations could keep children and maybe start gravitating from the surrounding areas towards Licko-Senj County which is at this moment and available on the highway so that there is no problem coming from somewhere else just so there should be good will and ministry that, to grant us the introduction of new programs that will be needed on The labour market. [[Intruder: Hva.a]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92150	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92151	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the recommendations of the HZZ, so how often do these recommendations are made at both the level and the level to which they are delivered and how often and in fact why do all the reports serve? Do they later use those that can change certain things that have been seen on the market, the labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92152	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92153	Thank you, fellow Simičević, for mentioning in my presentation of the recommendation of the Employment Service. I've been making them myself for years because I've been working at that job at the employment office. They were optional by now, however, at the moment they became mandatory, I believe that these recommendations should be approached differently. At this point, the Bureau is making them available data annually, and I think it's the only institution in the country that's ever engaged in such a thing and I believe and it's necessary to strengthen the capacity of the employment services in this regard, to educate and give them some tools that will be able to do a comprehensive but long-term forecast on the labour market, because they're actually being developed now year by year and so far, it's important to monitor what happens every year. It's really what's deficiting, and to be able to do a depth analysis would.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92154	Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you've linked your debate to a demographic issue, which, of course, makes sense. You've looked back at the spread or geographical distance in your county which is definitely what I can maybe connect to the distance in my county of some places is. And you looked back, of course, for and for the carriage of students. Just because some lines were removed in rural areas last year, the government set out to co-finance public liner transport of passengers as public services. The county is obliged to create a new network. I am sure that they will contact local and regional self-government units, or our schools, by the number of students, of course, that this one of the criteria for this service would be realistic. I'm sure a good, good transport of passengers or good lines that are partly preserved by those rural areas As it is of course in Slavonia but also in your face. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92156	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92157	Thank you, colleague Maksimchuk, that I have touched this part too because especially the districts that are scattered have a problem with the transportation of students because these students often live 30-40 km away from school and they are cut off really and for coming to school, they lose a lot more time, they often cannot participate in extracurricular activities that they need, and that is why, and if we are doing some structural reform of education it means, it cannot rest on just one resort and surely that other solutions such as the issue of traffic connections must be activated and made available even if these lines are subsidized, by introducing some faster, more efficient solutions that students could come to teaching, but also to extracurricular activities. I hope the local units accept it and try to create the best conditions for all students in the entire country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92158	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92159	Dear colleagues, I'm glad you mentioned children with developmental difficulties. They are indeed in an uninvited situation and it is necessary to develop social sensibility and enable them especially since they are often enrolled in vocational schools as easily as possible to not say and encourage them to continue in high school education. However, in this light, the light and the fact that you have spoken about within your speech, you are interpreting the latest proposal to amend the rules in enrolment in high school, which has come from the ministry, which abolishes that one additional point for children with health problems who should have actually strengthened their enrolment in high school and recognized their demanding situation because they are not in the same situation for acquiring knowledge, or showing skills during primary school education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92160	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92161	Thank you, colleague Rasudiæ, at this point I don't know what rule you're talking about, but I understand from what you said was clearly going on, according to the reduction of rights or the possibility of enrolling children with special needs in professional professions, it is certainly something that I hope will be corrected if it is seen that children cannot be enrolled in this way. And we should all definitely need to make as many programs as possible and adapt to children with special needs so that they can be active stakeholders in the labour market and live from their work at the end. It is true now, again I am saying it is easier in Zagreb or in some major cities, and we in smaller areas are cut off and so that children with special needs are properly educated, and most importantly they are even harder and more employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92162	The next replica, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Lika-Senj really, really have their specifics, what's in my sector is health care, there's a great lack of nurses and technicians, by the masquerading sisters because women prevail in this profession. Since you don't have a high school of medicine and that your children are educated in Rijeka, Karlovci, Zagreb, Zadar, that's why you miss that part of the staff that needs a lot of health care facilities. They go to school and stay there. How much would High School of Medicine in Gospić mean for further development of the health system in Lika-Senj County?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92164	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92165	Thank you, comrade Grba-Bujevic. Yes, Lika-Senj County is a scattered county and has a lot of health homes, emergency medical services, has a general hospital, but here's the last 3. There is also a programme for secondary education, a high school programme for the education of nurses. It's a program that doesn't go on and on, it's been going on for a couple of years, it's been going on for two generations, then when it comes to saturation, and now here's the third year that program is going on, but there's also a problem that might be, especially now in the pandemic, the commitment of lecturers and everything else, but here's something they're getting on and that's going on, and I hope we can get enough nurses for our needs. It's a piece that's really hard to expect to come from somewhere else to work when they're offered a job opportunity everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92166	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92167	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Pocrnic Radosevic, you have said very well among other things that for the survival of the population in smaller areas it is extremely important to ensure secondary education. In fact, here's from the experience of the city of Vodice, and unfortunately we're a city and someone won't say we're a smaller middle, we have nearly 10,000 inhabitants, and we still don't have a high school. Since I was mayor of Vodice, I know how much effort and effort I've made because we had a high school facility, and it's sad that you can get to a higher school than high school, of course, we have a primary school. We were ready to provide financial and financial assistance, we secured space, but we couldn't get high school. The neighbouring city has all those programs that are necessary for our area, get a new class rarely that school and the director give up that program. Get more different The program is almost impossible. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92168	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92169	Well, thank you, colleague, for pointing out the situation in your area, and I believe it's not only there, but in that case, when we have to decide between a couple of local units, which is where the ministry might be able to give some firmer guidance in which direction to develop a particular city, municipality, county or something like that, and that is how we create there, and the centres of competence and education programs that would group in one place. Let's say now in Gospić we would like to, we believe that we need geodetic technicians, construction technicians, and now we depend on the good will of the ministry whether it will be possible to open it, but why not have children from the surrounding areas, so that Vodice comes to Gospić, too, to be educated in some way, but that we have these quality schools that, which will be available to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92170	The next replica is the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92171	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned nicely that demographic movements in your county have produced the result you have today, a small number of students who attend actually vocational education and training. Although we can boast about the participation of students who are the highest in the EU, it means almost 70% who attend secondary education and training is the fact that demographic movements have made their own, that they are the most affected precisely by these training programmes and that the number of students in the last 6 years. who attended it actually halved. I ask you how do you comment then on the fact that your party once tried to reverse these demographic movements with a populist measure and that you offered 200,000 kunas to the person who returned to our country and that in a month that result was given to one person who showed interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92172	Excuse me, thank you, colleagues. Here you are from the demographic issue and that really the question of education is the demographic question and the question of survival. Some of the ends of the team have been affected by more, some less, and we are still dragging these, what happened to us in the Homeland War, the drowsiness of the population, the staff and everything else, but I believe that, in this case, we will succeed in doing something about these legal changes and the joint cooperation of all JLS and the ministry. And as far as the demographic measures proposed by the government are indeed a measure is available, the measure is available, if someone is interested in using it will, and if it is not likely to be modified in some other way, so no one was taken to give it to someone. So if it isn't, if it's not acceptable, then it's likely to be modified in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92173	Time. Next individual debate, respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92174	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education and the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, therefore, the debate on this amendment and the addition of the Law on Professional Education is also an opportunity to discuss the situation in the system of vocational education and to point out through all these discussions some critical points of the system which, as I said, includes 300 total institutions and vocational secondary schools, nearly 100,000 students, almost around 5,500 teachers in the system and 281st programme. It has already been mentioned several times that research has shown, but we don't even have to follow research a little bit enough to just be realistic and to follow the situation so that we can realize that our system of vocational education is as we currently see it and we have above all not in line with the labour market. Secondly, quite obsolescence, I think of outdated programs or curiculums of professionalism, that our system is inflexible and that it is unattractive and significantly underrated in society in terms of what, then, it has a weak motivation for our students to enter professional programs. Now, when it comes to professional programmes or curricula, when it comes to enrolling professional programmes, and then ending even though I will return to the fact that Croatia is in a fairly good place within the EU, 4 is among the EU member states with the number of students enrolled in vocational education, however, I believe that several trends should still be highlighted. The first trend we notice in Croatia, and in order for something to become a trend, a certain time must be repeated, and this happens and we see it in part, it is a chronic lack of traditional professional professions such as carpenters, plumbers, mechanics and foundries, etc., the builders eat. On the other hand, we have one trend that brings us this post-modern time in which we live the time of the 4th Industrial Revolution, including the 5th Industrial that is at our door, or on the threshold, what happens is that many of the future interests are not yet created, or we are today, and especially our present students are whether, who are involved in formal, formal education and education from the lower grade of primary school now do not know at the time of enrolment, which interests will be sought when they complete their education. These are the two trends that ask us how to actually shape professional curricula that they operate in the present and the near future because we live in a really post-modern world where they change at no random speed, the labour market is turbulent, subject to discontinuity, and now the question is actually registration policy and the question of what it should be like to satisfy the labour market. We saw by law the obligation to cooperate with the Employment Service in creating a registration policy. However, we can get information from the institutions now, so if we take into reality the fact of a particular interest recommended by the Bureau in terms of registration policy, we need at least 3g. to produce it if it's in the program after 3rd year. Education. Now the question is whether it's worth it now, whether it'll be worth it for those 3 years. Given the turbulence of the market and the rapid changes that are happening to us today. And as far as it's concerned, maybe it's important to tell the relationship with the market and the economy, it's very important to understand that we live in a time of transition from the so-called so-called. blue in white collars or transitions from manual workers to knowledge workers or intellectual workers and that is the fact that we will have to adapt... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92175	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92176	Now, since I've already asked a question, and my colleague wasn't sure what the changes were about, I believe you'll know. I am interested in considering that we are talking about vocational education, and that it is very much about a very vulnerable social group, which is people, or children with health problems, how you, in light of the facts and comment on the proposed amendments to the rules on enrolment in high school in which this small point is abolished, and previously granted to health problems, thus recognising the special status of children with health problems and facilitating their enrolment in high school. The latest proposal for a regulation abolishes this point for health problems. Since it often concerns children who are enrolled and vocational schools, I am interested in how you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92177	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for asking. I really wasn't there to see that rulebook, I didn't know it was changing. When you asked a question or replicated one of your colleagues, it seemed to me that you were talking about a rule applicable to students with special needs, if I'm not mistaken, so you were expressing yourself, so either you were talking about students with health problems, I can't say, so first it occurred to me that I should clearly distinguish the categories of students with special needs because that's where we classify two types, two categories of students. Children with special needs are children with developmental difficulties, but also gifted children, so in the first wave, I thought it was that rule. As for this entry rule, which regulates the enrollment of children with health problems in order to comment on it, I have to read it first and see it, I really haven't read it yet. So I'm sorry, but I can't tell you about something I didn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92178	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, for many years in Croatia, is planning to build a master school that would then allow the rapid activation of young people on the labour market because we know that it is important for employment, but also for the opening of the crafts, to pass a master's exam. It would also improve and modernise education for craft professions, which are certainly a key driver for economic development. According to the latest information that I have planned is that such a school is being built in Sisak, which would significantly contribute to the revitalisation of the entire area, which, in recent times, has suffered badly since the Homeland War, but I also believe that such a school in one if we can say to the rural environment, would contribute significantly not only to the revitalisation but also to the employment of young people and their qualifications for craftsmanship, so I am interested in your view of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92180	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for asking the question. I certainly welcome this initiative and welcome the opening of this master school. In fact, we all know when it comes to master’s occupations that it is actually the master’s exam of the crown and the end of the schooling and after, its laying actually gives a person a green light to enter the world of profession for which they have been educated, within the professional profession and professional program. Certainly, the opening of such a centre in Sisak, which we know about the problems and difficulties faced after the earthquake, opens up additional benefits not only for the environment in which it opens, but also for candidates who will in this particular master school or at that one center take their master exams in terms of and standardization of the process of the exam itself, and then means the benefit for the environment itself. In the end, the possibility of staying in that environment or opening so new crafts or new economic operators. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92181	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please comment on one nonsens, which is specific, High School of Education Eugen Kumičić sends a request to the Ministry of Science for the opening of new departments, automechatronist and plumber. The Ministry of Science neatly rejects this request, and on the other hand, we have the Ministry of Economy which scholarships precisely such occupations. So as far as possible, you can please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92183	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92184	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, of course I'm not familiar with a specific case. This is probably about the opening of new professional programs, so the modernisation of professional curricula for the professions you have mentioned. I can't get into the ministry's concrete response because I'm saying again, I don't know the current, current case. What I know and that the ministry is certainly keeping in mind, above all, the need to coordinate all professions and thus professional professions at the level of secondary school with the Croatian Qualification Framework, which is brought about with regard to exit, exit competences, qualification standards and standard of profession. If such a procedure is satisfied and one such procedure, one such occupation entered into the HKO registry, then I don't see the problem. So, the question is whether these conditions are all met, and in that sense, the answer of the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92185	Next replica, respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92186	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues from the available data we know that we are enrolling more students in secondary vocational schools than in the EU, so it is not the problem of the lack of enrolled students but perhaps the problem of attractive professions that the labour market is looking for. Well, I'm asking you to comment perhaps on the education strategy and how we could solve these problems to educate people for the occupations that are coming, not on the occupations that are leaving. So through the education strategy, and clearly through the school network, that problem could certainly be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92187	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very This is a very important question, so it would take me a lot more time than a minute to answer, but we can talk about it later. Certainly, with regard to the attractiveness of the programme, which is related to the modernisation of professional curricula, it has a significant impact on the strengthened registration policy, the attractiveness of the programme and the desire to enroll these programs by our students. This complex problem is very important to shed light on and in strategic documents, and very important to precisely strategic documents to explain, explain and give the way in which the attractiveness of professional programs will be offered to our students, and as a consequence we will then have an increased number professional programmes and their modernity and adaptation to the labour market. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92188	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92189	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I will continue what I talked about and in my debate, which is that at this point the only way for children from smaller backgrounds and with a small selection of professions to enter the desired profession and the labour market is to take an interest in going to other cities. And of course it collects, collects the cost of education for parents, accommodations, transportation and everything else, and here we should put emphasis on scholarships. This bill explicitly prescribes scholarships from different sources from the EU and the funds of units of local, regional self-government and private employers. I believe that this more flexible way of scholarship and the more generous scholarship of children will still be allowed at least in some, some first stage to go to other cities and that at least this way they can enroll the desired and necessary interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92190	So, I have already said in a debate on behalf of our club that this law, this proposal, amends and complements, for the first time, regulates the area and question and the issue of scholarships in the system of vocational education. What does that mean? The scholarships weren't binding until now. This means that the law is regulated, thus opening up the possibility of taking care of the even distribution of scholarships from different sources, whether it is a state budget, whether it is an EU fund, whether it is a means of local, regional and regional self-government or what is very important with employers' resources. This is the way in which students from all backgrounds are able to enroll the desired programs, so they will be able to find a place in the future world of work and on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92191	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92192	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues Bedeković, therefore, something that we can all agree on is the importance of vocational education, something that we can all agree on in fact that we have this problem and that this problem is not short-term but is long-term. This law gives some options and some variations. I have to admit that it always bothers me when we do a lot more form than we do content. So we know exactly what we are missing on the market at this point and we know in which direction Croatia will develop. There weren't any speakers who didn't mention the builders here, I don't know the carpenters, armymen, in the far line of the ceramics, all those kinds of occupations that are relatively simple. Now what should be the goal of how to improve and what bothers me is this provision Article. Article 26, i.e. amended. 26th and 26th respectively, mentorship and mentorship, which is another additional exam that he must be a mentor at all, is that what we need?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92193	Time, answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92194	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking, this is an important question, whether we need it or not. I'll tell you the situation, and I have experience because I worked at a vocational school, although years ago, but it seems to me that the situation hasn't changed much, until today, where you're assigning a student to someone who will follow him on a practical basis, on the one hand the institution assigns a professor who is the head of professional practice, and on the other hand the employer there gives him someone who looks after him. Most often it comes down to form, the employer there does not keep an eye on him, and here on this side you have a complete journal of professional practice standing somewhere on the table to see it all completely and to bring the form to an end. In that sense, I think it is important to regulate the issue of mentorship by law. Why? It is precisely so that we can regulate the situation in which an employer really deals with such a student who is in practice seriously, for a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92195	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92196	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said that the occupations we do not have are carpenters and plumbers and builders, etc. Unfortunately, the list of jobs we're missing is up to 43. Only in tourism carrying Croatian GDP do we miss about 20,000 workers despite the fact that the Ministry of Tourism is making significant efforts, which has very good cooperation with employers. In fact, employers in a 100% majority responded to their call for the scholarship of students in catering and tourism. The scholarships rose from 1,200 to 2,000 kuna, using about 500 scholarships. We still have a big problem with the workforce, and I am convinced that this is exactly the kind of approach we can get a greater number of tourism workers that we lack, as well as a better working force.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92197	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues that, indeed, here are the efforts to popularize professional professions, it is a devastating fact that we have a total of 43 types of professional professions that we currently lack and are not. On the one hand, we do everything we can to motivate students to enroll these professional professions, employers on the other hand make them attract them through scholarship and through scholarship in some way and recruit them into their own system, and I would say that we would make it to the end and to put them on the labour market by me is the key moment for their future personal income or salary to the employer who seeks their specific professional interest. Unfortunately, we have the fact that a lot of young people are unhappy with the current salaries in the profession for which high school education ends, so it goes away and seeks its happiness further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92198	Time. The latest replica of the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92199	I thank you again, dear Vice President. I am pleased that my colleague has just mentioned a scholarship policy before me, and what is said in the amendments to the law, as one way to remove another noticeable gap between the needs of the labour market and the selection of professional programmes, for the first time, is said to be the possibility of granting scholarships. However, I was approached by bitter parents and bitter students, and they told me that this year after a number of years, no public calls were issued for scholarships from students who are educated for deficits, although last school year was the most normal one of 1,500 kunas a month, and in fact, the question of what kind of scholarships is actually about non-existent, imaginary scholarships? I'd like to ask if you can answer me and comment on whether you have any knowledge of this case that they're not actually scheduled, scheduled scholarships for deficiting occupations?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92200	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92201	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for asking. I don't think that's the first question I've asked, someone's already asked a similar question. I really don't have any information on this, so eventually a question can be asked to the ministry that should receive information about it and take care of it, and then inform all of us MPs. I really can't talk about something I don't have information about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92202	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92203	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. There has been a lot of talk here today about something that I think is important, but this is something that will be important to determine how Croatia and the market and the Croatian labour market will look at some time ahead of us, but before I say something about this, let me spend one 25-30 seconds on what the government has brought today as a package of measures to help all Croatian citizens. We've heard a lot here in the Croatian Parliament that the government is absolutely doing nothing. Today it has proved that this is a government that understands at which point Croatia is not only global but generally and all the honours of it. And now we're going to talk a little bit about what I said at the beginning that's a very, very important topic, there's a lot of problems. I believe that the people who worked on making this law have seen a lot, and now we want to change in a certain way what I absolutely welcome. I said in the introduction when the secretary of state explained on behalf of the promoter that it was very important to establish that partnership, school, employer, student. It's something that's very important. And the other thing I think is that, that it is very important, we can't look at all vocational schools equally or geographically, we can't observe them, and we can't look at them equally economically. Why? Because individual micro areas where individual vocational schools are located have very different economic activities that take place on this area, and that is very important. I'll make an example of Valpovo High School. Valpovo High School had 1,100 students 20 years ago. That number has now fallen to 500 students. So this is already the first problem we have absolutely, and on the other hand, the Valpovac High School was located in the area where Belisce combined with 7,000 employees and Valpovo's combination had over 5,000 employees and there were absolutely needed needs for such activities and we used to enroll in 2 or 3 even 4 classes of machinery, tokara, all that industry needed. Now the economy is something else formed, but also now employers specifically in Belisce there is a company that is Harburg-Freudenbereger who is involved in making presses for making car tyres and she bought herself a CNC machine that assigned the school to Valpovo that students can further when they have time to educate and train on that machine. As far as practical teaching is concerned, it's for the professional profession I'd say crucial. There is no practice you will never become a ceramic, nor a carpenter, nor a builder, nor anything else, nor a good mentor. It's also very important. Old good masters used to mentor these students, and that turned out very well. 40 years ago, we had a system of high school in the following way that for the first two years of secondary education there was a general secondary education, and only after 2 years we decided what you would be in your life as part of this, and 2 years was also set for a professional practice that was performed or a student practice carried out in some of the economic operators. And that's where some students actually realized that that's exactly their future calling, and that's where they chose to be, I don't know, tocars or machine guns or anything else. Anyway, faster, more, stronger, better. It's the key to the success of every country that thinks about its future. No law is carved into stone so that it cannot be changed, so this change of law certainly contributes to giving young people the opportunity to study for these occupations. And in the end, that we should not fool ourselves without good pay, neither shall there be any tocars, nor machiners, nor locksmiths, nor roofers, nor anything else. Therefore, this partner relationship between the employer, school and students is very, very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92204	Replica esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92205	Although this is not the topic of this debate, how much the government cares about the measures and the situation with the energy crisis has best shown at the discussions held in the European Council in October when our prime minister said that he was de facto not interested in the fact that gas was just a transitional phase towards sustainable energy sources and was expected to react this late because we were probably only thinking about sustainable energy sources until the day after. I'm going to ask you this because now it's turned out that I'm conducting a survey of the HDZ Club, if anyone reads the rules relating to secondary education or at least the paper and the daily press, at least headlines if you don't read the regulations, how you comment on the fact that one additional point for children with health problems is lifted given the specificity of their status. And please don't tell me you didn't see it either, because then I'll be really worried about tracking. educational processes of those who speak on behalf of the HDZ Club [[Intruder: Time.]] the same processes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92206	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92207	The only thing I thought about when I was coming here for a pay phone, and I knew you had one more line left that the question you sent these two colleagues of mine would be addressed to me. I'll say I don't know, I haven't read it, but if it did, then I think it's unfair and that, that it's not good, and now we can't really all know everything and I wouldn't want to comment on something I didn't, I haven't read it, and here's a pity you didn't spend the replica before me, but here's how it turned out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92208	Followed by a replica of the respected advocates Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ivanovic's share of farmers in higher vocational education in Croatia remains 52% below the EU average, although by the number of young farmers we are better than the EU average and still about 40% of farmers over 65 years old. We know that the advisory service should be capacitated if we are to achieve the transfer of knowledge and skills because today a consultant comes to 585 agricultural economies. So in this sense, I am interested in what we can do and how we approach young people to interest them in getting more involved in agriculture, but also to communicate it in a way that it is important to acquire new knowledge and skills in order to make this agricultural production more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92210	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92211	That's right, there's no success without knowing. It may be that agriculture is one of the school examples that we are lagging behind right now, for that knowledge, and how difficult it will be for us to adapt to what the new challenges in agriculture bring with them and there is no speech there. I think the promoter is exactly this, we have to change the laws, we have to change the frameworks, we have to encourage what we need, which we need, without which we can't advance and achieve the goals that we've set ourselves to be much more flexible, be much more operational, not wait for it to go through 5 or 10 years. to change something. And someone here mentioned, we have to listen to what they tell us in high school. It can't happen that high school has room for certain deficits, and that it waits for the ministry of 2rd, 3rd or 5th. to make it happen. It can't happen, it has to be much, much, much faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92212	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Nadice Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92213	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here it is, we've seen all of this today, we have 300 vocational schools, we have 139 programs at three-year level, we have 104 programs at the level of three-year education. We have seen that there should be greater cooperation between the economy and of course education. I come from the county, which I can say is really from Varazdin County which I can say is really about education first in Croatia and always now we have a shortage of our students, we have a shortage of employees right in professional. For what? Because it's a pay problem, I think we have interests where they might be paid off, and that's why young people are kind of going out. I think it should be more... between the labour market and the businessmen and with education just as far as the professional... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92214	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92215	Thank you very much for this question. Problems often are not difficult to detect and they are really visible. There's been a lot of talk here today about it, and you've mentioned it, too, these are the centres of competence. Competence centres are very important, they are dissipators essentially of what can happen in some micro or macro area, there is no need to bypass regional and local self-government and they are very important. Regional self-government has been co-financed through their budgets by deficits in their counties. That is good, even now some employers want to grant scholarships to students who will eventually be able to work with that employer when they finish their education. Examples like this, such as the example of the Varazdin County, must be an example for all. Now, if everyone needs everything, that's to be talked about, but without excellence, there's no progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92216	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92217	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I will refer to that part of your individual debate in which you spoke about the partnership relationship between the school, the student and the employer. I'm going to bow down to your weight and actually say that I'm experiencing it as a kind of triangle of schools, students, employers who actually have a feedback, a constant feedback and results in a secure job and good pay. So, you mentioned the example of your county and the city of Valpova and the secondary schools at your place, and I will mention the example of my county and the connection between the economy and vocational schools. Everyone well knows about the Wood Industry TVIN in Virovitica and Rapid Virovitica where wood technicians, metal workers, tokars, machinery and good co-operation between the Technical School Virovitica, professional and Industrial crafts school Virovitica, which in some time resulted in safe jobs and good pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92218	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92219	Thank you very much. Thus, this shrewd school, an employer or an economy and a student is very important. It's not just an economic measure, it's both a demographic and a demographic measure. This should be taken as some starting point in a way that we will make better contact with both employers and the student will already be in one particular advantage that he will be able to guarantee this stay here in Croatia, in Croatia, of course if the material receipts are adequate to what he expects of his knowledge and I think we are on the right track. There's a lot of work to be done on promotion and education. This is something that you can't do today, today some other professions may be much more attractive, although when you look at European springs, Croatia is at the top of the EU, by the number of students who graduate from vocational schools. But unfortunately, let's be honest one good part of them ends up in some foreign markets and then Croatia has what it has to miss... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92220	Time. The latest replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92221	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Ivanovic, you mentioned that, in time, after primary school education, we should have finished 2.g. General education and then just one or two years of that professional, which I think was very bad because I know my colleagues who wanted to be just auto mechanics or founders and two years of war, and even lost class because of biology, chemistry, geography, history, physics and so forth. However, something you said at the very end, and I think it's very good, it's very important to pay well. More and more and more paid for with us and chefs and builders, and that is the greatest and good motive for our young bar to think about going into such occupations. These are professions that are already getting better than their high school professor who trained them for such an occupation, and I think that's a big and important motive for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92222	Thank you very much for this question. I cited this as an example and I fully agree with you, I think those students lost two years of crap, and they knew maybe in the beginning what they were going to be, in the meantime, be able to acquire the knowledge they needed afterwards. And that's good. Pays absolutely in the first place, there isn't, there's no talking. If it were up to me, I would send every young student after an eight-year-old school, who wants to be a doctor who needs to be educated for six or 12 years practically immediately to get to school for that occupation to come to an end, graduate then use the system a lot longer than it is right now. So I only mentioned these old practices to the visions of what was being discussed today, not that they were good, certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92223	Next individual debate by the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92224	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's Proposal to amend the Law on Professional Education in the Assessment of the State itself, states that the Ministry of Science and Education carried out research from 2016 to 2018 and that there is a gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market and that the main problem is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job. Regarding the first and first problems, therefore, the gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market as they tell me from the professional schools themselves is a very simple problem. Actually, the solutions are two. The first problem is registration quotas for deficit professional professions which are too small, too small, not enough and insufficient for them. The other problem is too little pay. In addition to the issue of registration quotas, we should say about what I was saying and in the replica that when schools give quotas unlike higher education, they do not have autonomy in implementing the quotas themselves, so first those quotas go from schools to correction of founders, few founders make corrections. I can tell in Istrian County that our county and the recent party that was there in power in the county was so-called. policy development in the emphasis, so let's not put out some schools, let's send all students to Pula the largest economic centre, but then for the children from Pula, there is no room for students from Pula in those schools, so they travel 50, 60, 70 kilometers away to schools in Buje and Buzet. I don't think all this together is good, and these legal changes won't solve the problem absolutely. The main problem, then, is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job. The directors and teachers themselves in vocational schools tell me that there is a solution, and that is a unique model of education so-called. The JMO that is needlessly neglected by them, and provides a solution for all of the following lags. So to get to know the public a little bit better, we have that classic model, the dual model of education and this unique model of education that's actually taken over from the German education system. What does that model offer? This model offers 2600 hours of practical teaching. So 900 hours in the first, 900 hours in the second and 800 hours in the third year, and of which practical classes in the working process in the craftsman, in the economic operators 1,830 hours, 560 hours in the first, 630 hours in the second and 640 hours in the third year, and the rest in school. It should be noted that the number of students attending such a unique model of education has been halved in the last six years. This legal, these legal changes don't solve it. For the first time, there is also a legal obligation for schools, founders and a resolute ministry of student enrollment planning in line with the HZZ's recommendations for education registration policy and scholarship policy. I'm really interested in how the dead-beat model works, the whip is going to be carried out when we've already got a problem with the reduction of the registration quotas. I'm curious, I find it very interesting that it would be unfair for high school vocational education to be brought into this position, and then for higher schools, and for me to come from one university to have complete freedom under the cover of university autonomy that they don't respect them. It is unfair, and I think if the participants of vocational education go to complain to the Constitutional Court that they will be absolutely right. So legal solutions should be equal for everyone. On the other hand, the private sector has no obligation to report the need for labour towards the HZZ and in larger cases, according to research and surveying our entrepreneurs and craftsmen themselves, they do not address the HZZ because they believe that they have no use for it and they also do not publish competitions there that are not even in debt unlike the public sector. I mentioned that Mrs. Bedekovic, as president of the Committee on Science and Education and Culture, says that she does not know, that she is not familiar with the fact that no public calls for scholarships of students who are educated for deficits even though last year and every year before this year, students received 1,500 kunas a month, although in the proposal for legal changes, she said that as one way to remove another noticeable gap between the needs of the labour market and selecting a professional programme, she said for the first time. I repeat, we do not know what kind of scholarships, who will issue these scholarships when we see that the system between various ministries is not working at all on vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92225	We have a replica, a respected representative of Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92226	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, well, one good part of what you said must be standing and having problems that are evident and coming upon them on our own. But what matters today is that we have here on the table amending laws that do not try but have found a solution to how certain problems we now have are going to solve. What is it to you besides, of course, wages is certainly number one in all of this, which would still be good, and perhaps not, not covered by these amendments of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92228	Thank you for that extremely constructive question, but let me tell you a little bit. The first thing, we need to realize that as we have high prices in our country, so we have to have high wages, that's by the must, and the second thing, this bill provides for a lot of obligations and conditions for the employer, so there is a possibility that certain employers will give up on the conclusion of the contract, and the third and most important thing is whether we actually have a sufficient number of craftsmen in our country where we have seen that all these training programs are actually going to implement that all of what you put into the legal changes we can do. I specifically think that in our country, the industry is on its knees, that we don't have production plants, that we don't have industry, factories, and I repeat, no small craftsmen, who still see all these administrative procedures that they have to fulfill to receive one student from us in teaching, then easily give up. Here, these are things that should change, and I've already mentioned, you should go back to that unique model of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92229	Time. Okay. Next is an individual debate, Honorable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92230	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have in our first reading the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education and reading this proposal and listening to today's debate because there are, in that debate, many things in the denominator, and somehow I got past what Houston, we have a problem. We got him. So it's just a question of whether we want to solve it and how we're going to solve it. Let me just read you all the laws that treat you in a certain way on the subject of vocational education. In addition to this law we have, it is related to the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and then we have the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, so we have the National Curricula for Professional Education, we have the Law on Institutions. And all these laws are, therefore, just the basic ones related to vocational education, and the problem we have and all of us stress that young people are making fewer decisions, and very rarely they decide to study professionally, that fewer people are enrolling in vocational schools, that we know at this point and we from this pay phone, we from the Parliament have on several occasions talked ourselves about occupations that are deficitous and there are no shifts. So I'm not going to say any news if I say that we're going to have a problem and we're still going to have a need for construction workers, for masons, for army workers, for carpenters, for, I don't know, for ceramics, for young people to make up their minds, I've even said at one point, so maybe the way to say, instead of carpenters, to say that it's called a roof construction constructor, maybe it'll look better to young people because when they go out there somewhere, then the word, I'm not going to go for the carpenter, but I'm going for something else. On one occasion a few years ago, I wanted to get the data on how many leftovers were recorded. So something that is the profession of the painters and the painters will always be needed. So these are the occupations that will take forever, which will need today, which will take 2030, which will take 2050, and then when I saw how few are listed I was surprised, and then I'm one man who deals with it because of course, that's my profession and I'm always trying somehow what I know about the profession, I asked how many kids are coming to you after they've finished practice, or these young people, said two came and they've gone, they've gone to the waiters. So we have a problem. Are we going to solve the problem in a way that we can further complicate some things? He won't. So, this subject that I have already mentioned, is a provision of art. 26 or the subject of mentors, but then we introduced something for these mentors, which is the exam, so to be mentors, you have to have an exam to prove the basic knowledge of the teaching of students, which is carried out in accordance with the competent regulated regulations in the field of entrepreneurship, crafts and education, and then special information on the identification of ministers will be shown in the rules. We've satisfied the form, we've got a mentor, a mentor has to be who he is, so he's always been a mentor, no matter what his name is. Let's tell me if it's an incentive for employers to really get involved in the education system at all or if it's aggravating element. Ask them. So if you have a mentor and if that mentor, in order for you to be, you're going to have to take the exam, what is his idea of doing it all together? They'll say, I don't care, I won't have, I won't deal with it, I'll wait, someone else will do it. Well, that's not the point. So, what should be the meaning of such an amendment to the law? The point should be next. Under number one, we really do have an incentive for young people to enroll certain vocational schools. Meaning 2, to make it easier for all those who are in this process, not to make it harder and 3, never forget, but for some time we are actually spending our money, which, I say, money on the state budget, on some other countries. We watch regularly as people from other countries come to us once a year and offer attractive jobs in these other countries And we look at it and we just record how young it is [[Intruder: Time.]] We went to school and invested money somewhere else. [[We have several replicas,.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92231	... is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92232	Thank you very much, colleague Dark-Taritash. You mentioned some occupations. I'm just trying to get your debate to work out with the argument I was talking about when I was talking about on behalf of the club. We had two very clear examples, which means deficiting occupation, in Britain when the driver disappeared, so the whole logistics system was on its knees, even the army had to jump in to make the supply system work at all. And the other thing is also from Britain, you don't have a tailor. Literally if you want to fix your clothes, you can't do it anywhere. That may sound funny now as well as a lack of carpenters means or as a lack I don't know of any other profession, but it can actually produce very, very big consequences in the future if they don't smartly set up those right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92233	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92234	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. So at this point, we don't have to be experts, we don't have to be experts in some areas either, but at this point we all sit together regardless of which side of this assembly we sit on and whether there's a little or a lot of us, we can name 10 different professions that we no longer need in everyday life, and we're going to need to continue in everyday life. It won't change new green technologies either, it won't change digitisation, it won't change even robots that will still need it. Try to take your pants away, try to get your pants off somewhere in the City of Zagreb. There's still, you'll still be but it's a question of when. The question of drivers is what is the EU's problem and the question is the moment when will be the problem with us too. This crown has proved to be a public sector, i.e. The public transport worked when the crown created the monster. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92235	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92236	Here, dear fellow I just wanted to ask you a comment here which I listed today, or according to the data for the past year 70% of the students of the final classes of vocational education actually enrolls later. In fact, they don't stay in that profession, in these vocational educations, is it really what it tells us about the attractiveness of these vocational educations? So we're constantly promoting whether or not you said yourself we're missing dozens of professions, etc., but children's enrolling professions end up going back to high, high schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92237	Thank you very much. So, the idea of additional education and some others is that, you can't limit or forbid it just have to enable the attractiveness of these occupations. I really mentioned it in my individual debate, and I once complained about it because, on one occasion, I said, look, when someone goes to high school and now says go, I'll do it again, and for the carpenter, it might be a good thing that, in accordance with some new terms, we call it a new way. But I'm sure the attractiveness of getting a job and the attractiveness will even be the possibility that something you do will take a step back. So when a person completes that extra or decides on higher education, it does not mean that he will not return to what is basic, which is if his job is attractive and if he can work there. Why do some people who ended up with us when they go to Austria or Germany do what I'm going to tell Austria no more, do what they were basically trained to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92238	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92239	Good afternoon. I noticed that in your debate you said that we are so short of these professional, professional means of education or vocational schools and at all staff after and then we miss tailors when you want to cut pants so there is no such thing in Zagreb or anywhere else, I would just like to warn that it is not just a matter of school, I think it is and already before 70% is professional it is a typical higher number of vocational schools than high school and legislators are actually trying to increase the number of gymnasiums which I mean realistically and necessary. So that's not the point, but there's a lack of reflection on the other side, and that's the famous labour market. So we can't just blame high school education for the state of the market and I mean this vertical mobility that has also been mentioned is still a good thing that we understand each other because out there and in some richer countries it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92240	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92241	Thank you very much. So I can't disagree with the part that's a good thing that the possibility of further education and everything else is an extremely good thing, but I can't, I can't really agree in this part that we can't just charge one part because it's all a whole wide story together. It's who you do, it's like a puzzle, in that puzzle must be all the elements to finally have the whole picture. We do have a series of problems. The problem is, and the question is how can we get out of all this together, look how much we need, where we have a shortage of workforce. We have a lack of labour in tourism and we have because we base a large part of our GDP on tourism and we have a lack of labour in construction or construction. And now it's just a question, so it's not even a matter of end-to-end or pay anymore, even they can get paid, even a relationship to that business, an evaluation of the quality of the work seems to me in the end. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92242	Is, next debate, the individual debate is the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasupdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92243	In the meantime, I still have to look back at the fact that we are talking about high school education today, without having been able to get an answer to the current question from any member of the HDZ Club that I asked, including the chairman of the Education Committee on Changes to the Rules on High School Bonting. And we're here competent to discuss high school education. We cannot answer the current political and social question relating to the elimination of points for children with health problems. Well, here's because the HDZ parliamentary deputies didn't even look at that rule in a row, which means they don't even read the paper because they could see at least in the papers if they didn't open the rulebook themselves, I hope that at least the Secretary of State in his final address will look back at the proposed change to make an excuse for eliminating the additional point to children with health problems. Surely the justification can't be the malfeasances that took place within the system, we can and should prevent and not punish the most vulnerable social groups. The second thing I want to look back at in this individual debate is a cacophony that has come up and a misunderstanding about whether or not we need more or less enrolled children in vocational schools. Statistics warn that we are predicating the number of enrolled children in vocational schools. However, if we look at the registration trends that turned back in 2019 to 2020. The trend of enrolls in vocational schools, the negative trend decreases, and the negative trend of enrolment in high school, so we're going over to vocational schools again. Is this good for us and what about the earlier strategic documents that I spoke about in the discussion from 2019 that wanted to reverse the trend by focusing more on general rather than vocational education. So we have one false perception or lack of knowledge of the facts that suggests that we lack a student in vocational schools. No, statistics say we don't miss students in vocational schools, but we obviously lack professionals on the labour market. Then the real question is where did we lose these people, if, for sure, some of them were further qualified, and yet they went towards higher education, and the other part ended up where the waist was valued in a way that was properly paid. So, we have not entered enough of certain professions, but people who have been educated for these professions often went outside of Croatia, and that is where we should detect our problem when we talk about vocational education, which is a problem in general of the Croatian education system, which is that we are educated in deficits, and that is often at EU level, because everyone lacks labour, and even when we talk about doctors and other interests for other countries. We invest in the education system, and we lose the personnel we invest in. The second thing I want to point out is the government's regulation that I mentioned and the HZZ recommendations that should be harmonised by the labour market with the registration quotas. However, these recommendations are and I will now say precisely qualitatively, not quantitatively, and point only to the existence of the need to increase or reduce the number entered in a particular professional programme. They shall not always be taken into account when determining the registration quotas for certain professional programmes and the need for a more efficient and precise system shall be recognised. So here we're talking about how we're going to connect to the labour market, we have no idea how we're going to do it because in practice we only have some qualitative recommendations. And ultimately we cannot skip what is with the Croatian Qualifications Framework. It means when we talk about the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which was adopted in 2013. The situation is devastating, it has been introduced so far into a negligible, insignificantly small number of standards, and it is impossible to apply a new law on this basis. It would be important to hear the answer to the question exactly how many professional standards, qualifications standards or study outcomes are in the register today, and how many professions are there in the Republic of Croatia? I expect the secretary of state to answer that question, so we'll see what's right. The register was spent through the previous years with an awful lot of money, of course, from the state budget, and the result is almost nothing. The professional councils working on the standard assessment have not made any shifts, but members have been given more fees neatly. Does that story sound familiar?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92244	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92245	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I think he's hurt. 238. The Rules of Procedure, in view of the fact that a colleague in his individual debate insults and demeans representatives of the HDZ Club, particularly me as president of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, on the basis of which it is necessary to encourage a debate on the Rules of Procedure concerning the registration of a primary and secondary school which has not yet been adopted, have not entered into force, and, if a colleague has a need to comment on this Regulation, may be included in the public consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92246	Okay. I don't think in this second section there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica and you get a warning. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92247	Art. 238, my colleague Bedekovic demeans me with the incorrect interpretation of my finding that he is at the head of the Assembly Education Committee, and he has no idea about the new Rules of Procedure in High School, which tells me enough about how much HDZ is holding on to education, which he has shown before when he left that portfolio to the minority partner of HNS, but I am glad that she recognized it as her own demeanor, the fact that she did not even see that rule with which I would fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92248	... Because you used this as a replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92249	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I have no intention of continuing to argue with my colleague, although I feel that Rule 238 has been re-injured by the fact that my colleague insists on continuing with me, so the debate on the rules in question has started. I will just point out that the work and task of our parliamentary representatives is to monitor and adopt and discuss legal acts, and that regulation is one sublegal act or implementing document of the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92250	It's also a warning to you because you've misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Honored Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92251	Art. 238, my colleague, Bedekovic, demeans me by saying that I demean her as president of the Assembly Committee on Equality, the Assembly Committee on Education, by establishing a notary fact that she does not know what the rules on enrolment in high school should know, and I will apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for having a person at the head of the Assembly's Education Committee who does not follow the latest educational policies of the competent ministry which I find embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92252	And a reminder to you, that's a different one. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92253	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, at the risk of getting the next warning, I will reiterate that Article 238 continues to be injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because this debate is going towards something that is going towards the edge, I would say quality home education and towards the edge of a normal communication between parliamentary representatives, so I will ask my colleague Rasdić to try at least a little bit as much as possible to control. Thank you very much, dear colleague. I am still the chairman of the Assembly Committee, and you will be when your option comes to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92254	This is your third warning because you used this injury for the replica, and then you lose your right, you lose right to the end of the debate. Honorable representative Davor Dretar has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92255	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's a little bit of the ladies in this gunfight stole my attraction. However, respected MPs Selak Rasdić may not be the most directly related to the subject, but when you have already mentioned additional bonuses, forgive the points, one information that prompted a lot of debate on social networks is the recent abolition and additional points for special achievements such as completed music or dance school and categorized athletes. So when a kid goes to music school, one of my kids attends, it's a complete school course. So, it's not one hour of teaching or two hours of some kind of university class a week, it's a whole school music program or a real school program, so I think I'd like to ask you to think that the ministry did a good thing, we know that it was according to the Constitutional Court's recommendation, but here's a little bit more emphasis on the subject. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92257	Yes, our colleague Dretar will also need points, and unfortunately we will also need points in what situation we are in, and most Croatian citizens, given the current inflationary pressure. As far as additional points for music and art education are concerned, I think they should have stayed because we need to encourage the wider education of our students. It's a very demanding process when children go to an extra elementary school. In principle, we can agree that we will not score any additional points and that the acquired knowledge is only worth enrolling in high school. But if we go to a system that is kind of sensitive and recognizes additional qualifications then we should also respect music schools, but also confirm so far the present sensitivity for children with health problems in achieving this additional point, not punish them for misusing the system instead of combing the system and finding those who have committed failures and mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92258	Followed by a replica of respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92259	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, so if we were to go and welcome these amendments to the law and hope that they might bear a certain fruit, I'm afraid we're talking about a system where hope has long died. But let's be honest, who or what brought this system to this level of not only vocational education but generally education and education in Croatia to this level at which it really is. Reforms that lasted shorter than a child’s ice cream, whose number was therefore approximately figuratively spoken at the level of changing children’s diapers daily. And none of these reforms have come to an end. When you have no goal set, and I'm afraid that education and education in Croatia have not set the goal of some sort of by-step move that can ultimately be and would be good non-products of fruit. I'm afraid this system is hard to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92260	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92261	I don't know how to fix the system when we really have a situation here and that the person at the head of the Assembly Education Committee doesn't follow what's going on in that same system, and when we see it here, then it's spoken without a single hard word about lack of home education. So, the failures are clearly based on HDZ policy here to be kept silent. When we talk about vocational education and generally educational policies, each government changed projects and programmes. However, this current government is the most important resort in the country I have called the uterus of society because it produces personnel who will manage this society and make this society in the future has left it to a minority partner as what could best be traded and thus has shown how much it cares about education. That's where the problem started, and it didn't end today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92262	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92263	Well, I wouldn't agree with this last one, and I wanted to make this very clear agreement that no quantitative analysis was actually made. And I asked the secretary of state how many salesmen are in these professions and in that vocational education, given that the problem is on that particular labour market, not in education itself. So we're looking in the wrong direction. If most of these means of vocational high school students are to be educated in this way, means those skills in targeted education, in dual programmes, etc., this is, for, specifically, for sellers. So the seller is not the profession that requires this type of professional teaching is, it wasn't about that, and we're doing everything as if we're going in the direction means based on an analysis, it's necessary to keep everyone repeating, it's necessary to coordinate means interests with the labour market, young people have to be more trained in skills, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92264	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92265	Yeah, I agree with the analysis we don't have, and that's what I'm trying to warn all about, so we'd like to get in line with the labour market then it turns out that HZZ hasn't yet made clear guidelines on how to do it, so it's going to change every year according to some projections, and the kids are going to come out of the system, maybe the projection of what they signed up for is later changing. We are in an absurd situation today that we have extras enrolled in vocational schools, and the lack of knowledge in Zagreb of craft professions, in Split and the surroundings of shipowners, etc., so we have one complete chaos in the system. We usually lack an educational frame, and here we lack a staff that can act according to their education. It's a nasty failure in the system, we don't even have a qualification framework on which it should be based, no analysis will fully agree, and we're going to go into what seems to be the simplest thing to sound like we have reforms, new and new legislative changes without touching the practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92266	Following is the individual, individual debate of the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92267	Yes, here I would just underline what seems to me to be lost in a debate somewhere, and perhaps by repeating some things that are not exactly right and weaken the whole argument, so it has been repeated over and over again, many have repeated that there is not enough will in young people to write down some professional professions and that is the wrong perspective for me. So it's not, we can't at the level and on the side of young people's willingness to put an emphasis on it, it's not that young people aren't so uninterested to write down the interests that we have deficited, but the problem is precisely in this famous labour market which is the whole framework and the whole meaning of the module that we are now adapting to with these competences and with the number of students of vocational and secondary schools and with all this means that education needs to be adapted to the labour market, which is also wrong in itself, but some of them are that the labour market is always going to mean both scientific discoveries and progress in some technology, etc. means just following the labour market, there, we'll get to the problem. But what was said here seems to me that, at one point, it was a little cloudy with that argument that young people don't want to, because I mean young people don't want to, because just after you graduate from school, you're not esteemed enough, and so I've asked a bit of a provocative question about how many of your kids are in vocational schools, so the kids of Parliamentarians are mostly supposed to be in high school, and now we're talking about how much esteemed interest professionally any, that we should put emphasis on these interests. These interests have lost their value on this famous labour market where people go out because they simply can't live on these salaries with us. Everyone would love my dressmaker, everyone, there were some who mentioned that they couldn't redecorate their bathroom because there's not enough plumbers and ceramics, but how many of your children are plumbers and ceramics and why they're leaving this country. But, well, she just wanted to mention a few things that exactly adhere to a concrete law and direct that debate towards the Secretary of State that we are concrete means what we think should be changed and I will first mention that what the Ombudsman has noticed is that this law is really not prepared in accordance with the rules of the nomotechnics and is not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the HS Art. 175, because you can't have arguments that repeat the articles of the law, so it's pre-convicted to fail. You've got a very stupid explanation that literally repeats what it is, which is in the article, and I have to admit that it's not quite typical like this, this kind of law we haven't quite gotten this badly written word. However, as far as content itself is concerned, it means art. 5. We are troubled, it is unclear how this quality of mind is raised if the quality commission in these changes comes down from 7 to 5 members and it is particularly problematic, which means among those members 7 reduces the number of teachers. We consider teachers to be more important than perhaps one parent representative, one student representative and one founder, so they stayed in that quality committee, and two teachers came out, dropped out of that quality commission, and they are the most important ones in teaching. And otherwise all the changes in science and education unfortunately often go towards taking away the power of one who is professional and giving power to one who pays for it all. So we think it's art. 5. There is no point in improving the quality of education. What we see is that there was an intensities that meant these members who were in some way expelled, teachers from that commission put themselves in that so-called. the school self-valuation team, and now you already have the name of a team that suggests that this is something less important than the commission is, and the self-valuation team is an important component, but you can see how important it is for teachers, and how much they were actually taken away from the importance. It is also an Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 27. I have already warned that what is very important is that the employer's duty to pay the student a regular fee, and the HOK's research suggests that such a low fee is rarely paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92268	Replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92269	Thank you. My colleague Peović, well, I wanted to ask you one of the things that we can certainly notice and what is certainly the reason for the smaller entry, and then the smaller remnant of people who have enrolled in secondary vocational education in Croatia is their position on the labour market and the fact that they are actually very often in society and that the social climate is such that they are actually viewed as less valuable. Not only because of the price of work, but also because of some other social circumstances. What seems to me is that in all the plans, and then the laws, consequently, where the helmet is actually for reality and what's actually pro futuro, what's the future because you have to look 4, 5, 8 years ahead, is that we, although we now have better this vertical passing within the educational system between the vocational and the more, we don't have a horizontal and that it's very difficult to actually make it possible for the learner of one direction to actually go at the same time. and objects in some other direction that would actually allow them [[/Intruder: Time. Answer.]] that they have knowledge from different areas which can later be combined on the labour market. [[/Intruder: Answer. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92270	Well, yeah, I mean exactly what the profession said about this law, so people who have been focused for years, is, on this kind of reform, is it, curical, etc., they said that, and I've been studying the results of the PISA research, it's really the specificity of Croatia that we still have that vertical mobility. But all policies go exactly to make this vertical mobility impossible and to disenfranchise workers, so almost 90% of the laws that we get here are actually training people to do jobs that are underpaid and for which they actually work a lot more than their European colleagues do, and hopefully somehow we'll manage to do it anyway. It certainly means, so programs that allow one type of education and other types of education, but certainly that vertical mobility that People can go from professional to professional. [[Intruder: Time.]] to college. [[Next replica, respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92271	...Advocacy of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92272	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. My colleague Peovic, so this is just one part of the problem we have. Let's take a very, very simple example that will be clear to everyone. The ceramics, so the ones who put up ceramic tiles. They should've done it before, they need it today, and they're gonna need it behind it. Try to find someone to put five squares of ceramic tiles in your bathroom. There'll always be someone who has to work. You can't find them. Ask what the price is. The price that was unimaginable that two years ago is today. I know, so I'm always tied to the construction sector, they say they're gone, they're taking the tiles and they're gone, they're gone. Now, why is it that, how do you even solve it and how do you get out, someone who will have an answer to those questions I think they'll be able to answer all of this together? But we have a case now. [[Intruder: Time.]] They don't go, they don't want to go to school, they don't want to go to the market. [[Intruder: Time.]] He's looking and he's gonna keep looking. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92273	Here's a situation, so I've been visiting ITAS, so the ITAS factory and they've explained it to me, so it's not, I mean it's not, it's just part of the problem that we're talking about here today and coordinating competences and synchronising with the labour market, what they told me there, so young high school students who come to ITAS are very fast mastering skills, but they're leaving because they can't offer them the wages that would keep them there, and that's what's constantly flow tape. So young people are educated, you're wasting time, they're leaving because they're not going to, I mean, not that they won't, that's just too ugly, but our workers for these salaries can't survive, they can't feed their family, they can't provide a housing question, they don't have insights like some vice-government CNB into how these cheap properties are sold so they can buy a house for 230 euros, they buy them at this real price.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92274	Time. Next replica, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92275	Here, dear colleagues, just actually commenting on the fact that these interests may not be appreciated today, probably because of the situation on the market and are appreciated precisely because there are few, and then even when you find a ceramicist, you pay it as dry gold, is it, precisely because there are not enough of them, and here, we all commented together, because of the whole situation in society, we have people who also write professional professions, after they are educated and acquired some knowledge, go and apply them outside and earn money outside. But let's say, here, let's go back to how to improve this vocational education, through some tools, what do you think about this, so that this professional practice that they do during vocational education, to be recognised as some kind of work experience, that they already have a certain working experience as well as getting out of school. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92276	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92277	Yes, of course, it's also connected to student work. So all those categories that sort of lower the labour price because they work for a lot less money, and students and high school students, have to enable them to write that paper in their workbook because it's work like any other and they, it should be, they should have, for that means pension contributions, get meaning and internship. And what you said about ceramics then ultimately being expensive, they're appreciated, I mean, that's, to say, the consequences of a series of things that are problematic, that most of them went outside, that basically we have a lack of labour and now we have two years ago means this Foreign Law and that we're actually, in fact, fully liberalizing labour imports and then we're actually importing that workforce because I'm saying, here's a lack of labour force. It's not a shortage, it's a low wage, and that's why those who are willing to work for less are coming, and students and high school students are unfortunately They belong to those categories today. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92278	There's a final debate coming up. The first is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92279	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We've heard a lot of interesting things here. I'll say next. Since I come from a system of education and education, here I must publicly commend all those enthusiasts who work in a system of education and education, as well as a ministry that has invested a lot of money to equip schools and meet European standards. Our schools make excellent experts. The fact that people do not stay in Croatia, but are leaving is now a question that we can discuss at some other sessions, but by keeping the law here, I believe that this law will win results and that the adoption of proposed amendments and the addition of laws will be a premise that will allow for key changes to be made in terms of strengthening work-based learning with the aim of raising the quality of its implementation, and thus better integration of schools and employers, improving the quality of vocational education systems, further development of the regional centre of competence and ensuring the quality of curricula associated with the Croatian classification framework. All these amendments aim to bring the education system in line with the labour market, and what is most important is to ensure a sufficient number of quality labour force and their adaptation to the labour market. What I couldn't say before in my debate, time had elapsed, so I'm going to look back at some articles that I think are important to mention, and it's up to the Ministry of State to see if it's possible to coordinate, change or stay this way until the second reading. Therefore, in Article 5(3) of the Quality Commission, it is intended as a body implementing internal quality and independent of the school director, and this proposal puts the director at the head of the commission. I'm thinking it might be a good idea to propose certain people and then pick them out by the Teacher's Council or already some body, and clearly after that, the director coordinates and manages that body. In Articles 13 and 14 respectively, that is, under the new Articles 26 and 26a. It is about the employer and the conclusion of the contract and the mentorship of the pupils. This also raises the question whether the employer will single out an employee who would deal with paperwork and whether the employer will be willing to send his employee to exams of additional pedagogical competences required by these amendments to the law. And clearly there's always a question of who should pay for it. Clearly, it is in every employer's best interest if he gets a good student who is willing to work, that he will strive to keep him inside the system and therefore that invested money he had will return to him. And perhaps the biggest problem for schools to find an employer who will receive a student to practice. We are witnessing today that we are dying of interest and that simply for those interests that our students today are trained for may not be covered enough, or teamed up, so that all students question whether or not they can come to the practical work of the employer if they are not present. I certainly hope that these amendments and additions to the law on vocational education will remove the ambiguities that are on the labour market so far, and further investment in vocational education and centres of competence as well as scholarships of students of poorer property in the near future will return invested through the economy, growth and progress. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92280	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Maria Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92281	Now let's talk about reality. So, what is Croatian reality? The Croatian reality is that we lack labour. The more we are forced to import labour, and we are not sure whether we can meet the current needs of our market. At the same time when we talk about vocational schools, we lack licensed employers. Wouldn't it be logical in a situation where labour shortages are lacking if we had employers who break up and struggle to get as easily as possible to get students who will get to know and train early in practice and work with them, and then to call it coloquial, get them to stay with them in order to reduce the deficits we have on the labour market so they don't have to look outside for labour force and depend on some foreign markets. As paradoxical and illogical as this situation is, our Croatian reality is not sufficiently well-oriented politically. So we have a situation where the deficit is obvious. The problem is to attract employers where they themselves should naturally go to students who will train themselves to work with them tomorrow. It means that somewhere there is a system of failure, which means we can't talk at all about connecting education and labour markets when, obviously, employers themselves don't recognize our education system as one that will give them that same workforce tomorrow because before we even start discussing this law at all, we should ask the question so how many of us now have licensed employers, how much of an interest it is, and we know that there is a need for interest, and why there is no interest if there is no one, who's wrong, how there can be so many holes, a gap between our school and our labour market and our employers. It's a real indicator of the state of this society. When we specifically talk about these legal amendments, I will point out exactly what I have pointed out, above all, this law should be brought into line with other laws relating to the Educational Resor of the Law on Education and Education. 60th compared to Art. 60th. 34. The law on vocational education. It is necessary to determine who is a regular student because, as I mentioned in Pucci Open School, we have children who go to the high school program and regularly attend, and they do not have the status of a regular student because it is used for adult education. There are provisions that are in collegiate, so I now point out this because it is an answer to the question that appears in practice, which I have previously pointed out. Every law that we bring here is an island for ourselves and is not seen at all, not only in relation to the practice of what we are used to but also in relation to other laws concerning that same resistor. So the vocational schools in relation to the labour market and employers remain separate enclaves, and no one can think about Croatia systematically and no one can connect these things to each other, so we have uncoordinated laws, so we have no relationship between the labour market, employers and school students. How are we going to change that and change it in the future, as far as the law is concerned, to bring this law into line with all others, which will be a real indicator of the systematic thinking of education policies, and then eventually and in practice, to connect students with the labour market, but we will only be able to do so if we develop our qualification framework and only if we really make both quantitative and qualitative not marketable but projection elements for future adaptation of the HZZ labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92282	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92283	Thank you very much. Here, as a summary of this debate, I can say that we have touched a lot more problems than we can solve by one law, let alone the Law on Professional Education. First of all, there's the workforce, why she's leaving, how, by this law, we're not going to solve it. But what we can solve is to improve our vocational education, of course by law we cannot popularize it, but to make it more efficient, better, and therefore hopefully more attractive to our students. It's something we can do and need. Unfortunately, the current social situation and the social values that we have are not worth doing and it turns out that actually being in this kind of business is something that is beneath honor, which is not appreciated, which is not good, which is not really supposed to be good, and the market is telling us because people who know how to do their job are highly appreciated on the market, and I hope that we will not only be aware of the nation of waiters, maids and receptionists, but we will really work on being a society where work is appreciated, and therefore professional interests are extremely important for the functioning of the entire society and state if we want to put it that way. We welcome the fact that the law is aligned with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, as I said before, the Croatian Qualifications Framework should be one of the main levers of modernising our education as such because it gives us much more flexibility, flow and speed of reaction than formal education would do, and it is actually part of a much wider story and lifelong learning not only secondary education, etc. On that side, we absolutely think it's about time we passed this law. Unfortunately, sometimes the laws are treated as said by counterpart Selak Rasdic as islands and it is necessary to make more work for our legal regulations not only in this segment, but in everything about education to be consistent with these standards. What remains is the question of how and how we will translate the best measures into practice in this law because it also says the old saying that the road to hell is filled with good intentions. These are the intentions of good, but if some things are going to be carried out as they have been or will not be spent in practice, then colleagues and colleagues have spent most of the day for nothing. I hope that this will not be the case, and I will ask, of course, the proposing representatives to take into account all the criticisms and suggestions they heard during the debate and to come before us in a second reading with a bill that will be acceptable to the wider circle of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92284	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club for the Righteous Croatian Honored Representative Miroslav Škora.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. So, we're discussing, we're talking, I don't know if you've been trying to get a master lately. Get a master to, I don't know, build you a fireplace. Get a master to serve you a water heater. Have you tried getting a master to quality your ceramic tiles? You can't get it and you pay it with dry gold. That's true. In Croatia, it is not that work is not appreciated and a worker and a good master, it is appreciated, but we do not have them anymore. We don't have them, in part, because they're gone, not for so many financial reasons, that they've gone for reasons they're not satisfied with the way the country's been run, that's the same fact that we have to talk about. What we can discuss about this Law and which should, of course, be mentioned, and no one, when we talk about this Law, is very much unattractive. Children are unattractive because if they don't get into high school, they're considered missed. Their parents also consider it a failure of their children, and to get into high school, grades have to be 5.0 since you were born. And we already have scientific research that says that those grades don't match knowledge. So it's a factography. Teachers are not stimulated enough quality, sometimes the best among us were teachers, the best writers, scientists, by Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević and so on, they were teachers, when you came to a village, a place, a city, you went to a bar, and there is other than the Birts, the main face of the parishioner, teacher, lawyer and doctor. We've offended it. How can we make it attractive? What needs to be done in this law, that with all this and the fact that people just don't want to live here, we try, we make another effort. We lost time, that's what I was talking about, that's a valuable resource. They asked me some in the hallway why I said I was 60 years old, so because at least the last 30 years have failed under 14 bad governments, and I can't put it back, no matter how hard I try. No matter how hard you try. We can do something in the short term. We can helicopter-deliver money. We'll be delivering money from this fund or that fund, waiting outside EU offices to give us something, so we'll be delivering and don't be afraid, what money? There's no money. In the long run, it should make it attractive. What's attractive about the bill? Is it attractive that we're going to introduce a mentor? Not to me. I don't think he's a teacher or a student. Is it attractive to plan on enroling students for the first time? Who cares? The possibility of professional, the possibility of professional supervision, is that attractive? No, put that on some jumbo poster and say get into the vocational school, for the first time, the possibility of professional supervision, who's going to enroll you? No one. It would be attractive if we could pay our teachers in quality. To pay the mentors in quality, to teach the best among us again. It would be good for us to improve the status of these people, it would be good quality for these media that are under control of ruling affirmatively to talk about, to see the contribution of some people, to make heroes of them. Let's take a look at the Americans. They made their firemen a hero and they are heroes, and we made our heroes what? And what someone said, yes, a work internship, why not? If a child can, we'll discuss this law today, at 16, already at 14, within the green policies, drive a romobile and hit whoever he wants with 50, 60 km/h, and then maybe he's entitled to work as well. Create that money. He's got them. So you're going to have a 16-year-old internship, it's attractive, put it on a jumbo poster. You'll have color status, you'll have a higher salary. It will attract people, we have to do it by law, we have to do it by our own action, to do this nation of proud people, not to the nation of people who are educated here to use the first bus to drive towards Munich and leave the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92286	Final address on behalf of the motionary, respected Secretary of State Tomislav Paljk. A thumb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92287	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here we are at the final debate, and I would dare say, given the number of exposures, the number of replicas and all that has been seen in this House, that the sensitivity to the educational theme that today is exposed here at a high level, which in itself is very significant and I think welcome and I think that no matter what it is, here's the first reading, that we can already go towards something that will be further upgraded to the second reading, but certainly more in the perspective. Given the fact that the time of the resource, as it was well said today, I will always rather go here as quickly as possible with decision-making and with the implementation of something that we think might help and upgrade our education system and risk here the parliamentary fire and as someone who is a secretary of state, it has been mentioned, I will say, I am also this minority coalition partner in this government and in this portfolio which is HDZ and I am not here by chance and I would not have been here to see that there is a visible progress in the system of education and education and that in a shorter period of time. Of course, by respecting all that has been said, I believe and, in good faith, I must say and repeat that the objectives of vocational education, which I wish to achieve through this subject of the law, is to enable students to acquire basic and professional competences for obtaining qualifications in the labour market, for further education, lifelong learning, and in the function of personal development, and for the economic and general development of society is to ensure internationally comparable professional qualifications, to ensure the development of open curricula, to lead to the principles of vocational education, to the availability of gender balance of students, flexibility, relevance and rationality, transparency, and compliance with labour market needs and higher education, to focus on learning outcomes and the development of competences, individual approach to students and different ways of acquiring the same professional qualifications, partnership in the process of education, to be subject to the conditions of education and standards of equal to the necessary access to the qualifications and standards of the necessary qualifications. I would like to remove one opinion right away, in fact, a prejudice that immediately appeared in this debate that bad students are those who enroll professional professions. That's not true first. After all, 60% of those poor students wouldn't then be enrolled in high schools. That's not the point. It's not even that it's absolutely standard for you to have hairstyles in your professions. So let us not be underestimating in this regard, including the successes of course of those who enroll in professional professions. The preconditions for practical application and which are based and intensified by these amendments to the law regardless of the nomotechnical disadvantages, I think that in some priority relationship I am not professional in this field and I respect the criticism. I would, however, give if it were possible to take advantage of the speed of adoption over these other stretches. There was also during the debate a little mixing of concepts about what MPO offers, what RCKs, or what can be expected from a grand scheme in a new envelope. So, the MPO is not designed for infrastructure at vocational schools, but that's why in the new envelope I said with great funds that are amounts and as regards regional centres of competence it is possible and these grand schemes are opened which will be related not to the infrastructure, but to the equipment, and the equipment is very, very quiet, we have heard especially many examples where it is insufficient and where it will not be able to handle regional competence centres. There's going to be another possibility here, so let's say we remove some kind of question here. I'd like to, I wouldn't really be going into a debate about why the Ministry of Economy removed the scholarship through JMO. Namely, JMO and then classical education professionally and experimenting in dual education are kind of wanted here to avoid these amendments of the law exactly on the standards of qualifications, or through them to come to professional curricula which would then somehow combine it all because there was a lot of disorientation. That's between the two of us and one of our facilities. Here was the question of how many jobs have been entered in the HKO register so far, the standard of profession. At present, 219 and 48 qualifications standards. By the end of this year, it is planned to be a standard of interest, it is not only going through the Professional Education Agency, it will be over 250, assuming 140 qualifications standards. As far as the seller's concerned, the question is how many numbers I have for first class 631 which, on some condition, is not so attractive in terms of looking for a profession, this is about a number. Now put that into percentages should play a little bit more, but I think here's for one orientational information is enough. As regards the question about the regulation that has just been put into public debate, which cannot be avoided in any subsequent procedure, nor the Assembly Committee on Education, nor this House of Higher Education, or in any way that has just been put in place as a possibility of thinking here, I must say that it has been incorrectly interpreted as regards enrolment and the criteria for enrolment in high school students with health problems. They are also recognized by this rule and also have an advantage in enrolling. I'm not going to go into the details, but here I'm going to say that it is already in the need, as the country has been said, with a high percentage of super-recorded and in one of the asphyxiations of this kind of regulation that has so far been in place when it's being entered into high school, the need for this rule to be upgraded in terms of elements and criteria has already come to the public professional level, and from those who will implement it on the ground for approval, because it extends the possibility of enrolment in high school because it also has a higher chance for those with 4.8, and I think that it's also great for me to get into high school and respecting health difficulties and based on special programs, so children with development difficulties and based on those orientation checks before they get into school themselves again, therefore the possibility of enrolling in high school school school school and the score can only be said in terms of criteria and context of the same number of points. That's what we're talking about here, but at this point we don't need to spread the subject, I'm thinking about the rule, because it's definitely going to be inevitable and it's going to be the subject of a debate that's just started. What was also mentioned here, and I'm going to have to end up with good examples, very good ones, yesterday I made sure in person live, so the attractiveness of what is offered and the possibilities for the system to react there. We reacted to what we could and it's an experimental program for video game development technicians. So, not only will these students be allowed to enter both PMF and electrotechnics and FOJs if they want to, but they will be allowed to develop the gaming industry, and the video games industry is now gone by fellow Skora at this point as you know in that fourth industrial revolution surpassed the film and music industry together. So it's something that's so creatively possible, so these young people really create one creative industry that's fascinating. We were, of course, in Novska, where the center of the gaming industry, where we could see how a new value is actually being realized on the very expensive basic elements that exist there and that's something we're naturally building on and where we're going to have to systematically and legally react when it comes up. And that is why every year, together with the Croatian Employment Service, partners have to agree on what interests they will open, which programs they will open, not to wait four or five years, ten to see that something is not going and that something was not good and that it was missing somewhere. Here are the basic intensities of what we want with these amendments to the Law on Professional Education. Are we on the right track? I think we are. Do we still have room for another reading? I think we do and we will. Of course we're going to scan everything that's been said today and see what can be implemented in some way, but as with this law, but also with the rule we could have waited for, we could have waited for the next school year, and then a little weighty, so now we want to go now, we want to go fast. If we're on the right track, please welcome, if not of course there's the minister and I for all your criticism, we're open to everything you have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92288	We have a few replicas. Prior to that, one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92289	Thank you, dear Vice President. This Regulation shall enter I believe the Secretary of State is not well aware of some procedures, so I can tell you more than once that you mentioned this famous rule that we didn't get an answer to today. No, he will not attend the meetings of the Assembly Committee because we are not discussing the meetings of the Assembly Committees about them, and how important it is under the quotes of the Assembly Committee is the fact that we have been waiting several months for reports from the University Council of the University of Zagreb and when we have discussed doctoral studies now, no one from the University of Osijek, Zagreb and Split has even been satisfied with coming to the Assembly Committee [[Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92290	You can't answer to any of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. You're getting a warning because you used this as a replica. Dear Representative Zeljko Pavić has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92291	My dear secretary, there are many good wishes in this proposal. I hope that at least one part of those desires will come true. But I hope you're aware that one part of those wishes is almost invaluable. You said the students would be taught by the best teachers. Are you aware that teachers, teachers, teachers leave schools? Why? It's the small wages. Would the state allow for higher wages? It's not. Did she secure more wages? It's not. Is he going to make sure? I'm sure he won't. So you won't get the best. Please stop them and give me time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92292	Please, don't interfere with the representative's exposure. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92293	Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92294	We'll extend you ten seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92295	At least half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92296	It'll take half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92297	Second. Now, you've just said one example here today that, you've wrapped it nicely in a cellophane and you've said that there's a technique for the development of computer games. It's usually an IT programmer who develops computer games. It's been there so far, there's no big news. Just instead of the programming languages he's been learning so far, he's learning two new programming languages and maybe he's got a little bit of skilful extras that concern visual identity. We must keep in mind that our students will be burdened by the coming new era of computerisation, information, robotics, artificial intelligence, and we need to take care of it. Here we should push our students and our plan and the state plan and plans of individual counties and individual schools. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92298	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before your reply, the distinguished representative Andro Krstulović Opera, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92299	Dear Mr. Chairman, breach of Rules of Procedure 238. An esteemed colleague used all the wrong information in his run-in. Milanovic's government, during Minister Jovanovic's time, cut salaries to teachers, the governments of President Plenkovic repeatedly raised salaries to our teachers. During Minister Divjak two, three, six cumulatively more than 8.5%, the Secretary of State will probably do so. Better than me to say. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] So it's worth talking about facts in this House, not facts. To deceive the public. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92300	You get a warning because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92301	Your Honor, Mr. President. 238, the honourable representative has replaced the thesis, we are not here in the history class who did what we did but are here to pass a law that will allow us to have a better quality education. If that doesn't suit you to discuss the subject, then we can talk about history. We can do history, but history will be spoken of by historians, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92302	You're also... The Rules of Procedure, as you have practically responded to Mr. Opari's honor, so you're getting a warning, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the secretary of state to respond to Mr. Pavic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92303	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm as a teacher absolutely interested in raising salaries to teachers. What I'm going to say is that the biggest pandemic crisis has seen a pay increase in accordance with collective agreements, so when there was chaos one on the market, this government and this Ministry have adhered to the provisions of a collective contract and the wages have gone in that sense as agreed. New collective bargaining is now up, on schedule, we'll see which limit it goes to, I'm not a financial expert, but anyway. You had, here, I'm going to have to say, yesterday in Novska, a fellow historian who, by the startup game just on this game at the gaming industry, started making video games and man is now a very, very potent investment opportunity and probably, unlike the others who work in schools and teachers, he's going to give that skill to It's a little bit more material. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92304	Next replica, the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92305	Thank you very much. I'm a historian, a colleague, so we can talk about history, and I'm going to talk about history with some judgments, but, well, we're not going to do history now, I'd rather turn to the future and what this law can give us. I just wanted to underline what, Secretary of State, that there are doubts, possibly some provisions of the law, I believe that it can be done until the second reading that then there is a document which, as I have finally said, is ultimately acceptable in a wider circle of MPs precisely because we would try to maximise the effect of the law because we know ourselves, you are a teacher, I have also spent a good part of my life's work in school, and we know that some and the best intentions embedded in the law often do not live in practice, so we have perfectly taught these experiences and we have turned our attention to certain things, just to avoid such things in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92306	Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92307	Thank you very much. I can only say that I fully agree and that until the second reading we will go to what is possible to coordinate, we will certainly coordinate to be acceptable, if possible to all or to as many MPs as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92308	Next replica, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92309	Thank you. Well, I would like to hear a little bit of how the Ministry, but our agencies have coordinated with partners in other EU Member States on the issue of reforming vocational education. I will say that in 2018, Finland made a thorough reform of vocational education. 9/10 Finns believe that they have an extremely high-quality vocational education and what they have made possible, they have actually reduced the number of professions, but they have increased the number of available competences through horizontal passing and what they have made possible for each student is that they acquire additional competences from other areas in order to actually be less focused on some very narrow labour market needs for one interest than on the creation of people who can actually function on their own later and through adult education to further upgrade their competences. Where is this connection? in Croatian vocational education and whom you looked up to [[Intruder: Time.]] When did you make changes to this law? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92310	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92311	Okay, now a broad question of good practice, of course, I'd have to go through my own administrations with all my views. Here you have said one interesting thing, which will be made possible by these amendments to the rules, and that, therefore, is the standards of occupation, the standards of qualifications and then the professional curricula, which will mean that one professional curricula, and you have heard the figures around the current... will be able to imply more standards of interest, which will therefore group, strengthen what is now fragmented and what is now being undermined by this mass because of what you have said, so that I think that on this trail we are, reform takes time, we went this way to be able to comply with other laws so that we can, and ambition is now our next, so the new Law on Education and Education in elementary and high school, then link it with one part to.../incomprehensible/... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Law on Professional Education and the Law on adult education, so that we can somehow get rid of that part Focus concentration on [[Intruder: Time.]] A brand-new law. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92312	Next replica, the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Before the question itself, creative industries are already here, those who have succeeded, have succeeded without a system, most often it is the genius of an individual, at least until now, I hope that there is one bright point in this Law, that we will go towards it. But my question is each other, it's about support for scholarships, measure 22, children who are in the middle of a high index of development are discriminated against by children who are in less developed areas, and we need to know that there are poor families in the developed environments, and it would be nice to make it right, that they are equal criteria for all, so I'm wondering if you're going to make it right until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92314	We will, if you need to go into detail, then we may explain it a little bit more, but what we wanted to point out is that for the first time, you are legally introducing a scholarship as a concept and as a possibility for children to be scholarshipd on all grounds, so from the state budget, from funding local and regional self-government, the EU funds, economic and social partners, therefore there is a possibility of consent and then that it is multiplying in a way that children can make benefits, i.e. scholarships. And now if there are any other additions that may be controversial or not well communicated, we will see to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92315	The last replica of the esteemed Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92316	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't want to spread into that subject, but I want to ask you a question and it's about these entry competences in the high school education system. I don't know why, even though I'm going to say one opinion that may not be popular right now, but I don't know how you came up with the idea to introduce admission exams. So all schools can conduct them, even professional ones, in the situation where we started piloting national exams that were actually supposed to be an objective system of external evaluation that had to solve the causes rather than the consequences of the problem. And so it wouldn't be more logical if we had insisted on that kind of external evaluation and outcome, both teachers and schools that would give an objective picture and indirectly solve these false traits, and at some point re-emerged that enrollment from the foundations of grades and national exams. Now why the one turn and the one that's going on in education policy? I think we should have stayed on this road that we plotted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92317	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92318	Thank you very much. Admission exams as an option existed and so far there is only a difference in the number of points. There is now and as an option. So, with the amendments and the additions to the regulations, I won't, I said I wouldn't get too much into that topic, so all the high schools that want it don't have any special conditions can take the entrance exam, but it can be conducted from the Croatian language, mathematics, first foreign language, teaching classes that are important for the continuation of education and one class that independently determines high school from the compulsory classes taught in elementary school. So, that's possible, the deadline for consent is March 31st of the current year. That's how we listed it, and that's why we're going into the procedure now to get this thing implemented right now. So it's optional not a condition and it's optional because you know that there's a plug where there is, where the rush is large simply to define it in the criteria a little more clearly. That's the intensity of the rulebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92319	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now, at the request of our informers, we have to take a 10 minute break and proceed at 17.00 hours. It's 4:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.00 HOURS]] The next item is: - Proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications, First Reading, P.Z. No. 250; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Ivica Šushak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, which provides for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of accessing the labour market and for the purpose of continuing education. Let us mention that the process of recognition is carried out by the relevant sectoral agencies, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Professional Education and Education, and the Agency for Education and Education. The current law dates back to 2003 and last amended in 2011 or the applicable law has become obsolete and is not in line with the EU Directive on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications already incorporated into the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. In addition, the current Law does not comply with EU strategic documents and the European higher education area, which consists of 49 countries implementing the Bologna Process. Another reason for the creation of a new legal framework, which is also the National Development Strategy 2030, in which, within the framework of the strategic objective 2, educational and employees, there is also a priority for the implementation in the field of higher education policy, a development activity and a resulting increase in internationalisation in line with modern European trends through improving the availability of quality higher education. The activities of internationalisation include attracting foreign students to full study programmes in the Republic of Croatia, for which there was no existing law, for which there were certain administrative obstacles under the existing law, for example in terms of documentation required for the purpose of continuing education and the absence of an automatic recognition system. As 2 main objectives of the new law, I would stress the evaluation for the purpose of employment in professions that are not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, which are subject to the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and other objectives, recognition for the purpose of continuing education. When we talk about an evaluation for employment purposes, it is necessary first to clarify how this procedure is implemented under the applicable law, a solution on the recognition of the foreign educational qualification for access to the labour market which is now issued does not provide additional information for employers, in particular in the section relating to the comparison of the level of qualifications acquired in the country in which the qualification has been acquired in relation to the level of qualifications acquired with the levels of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia, as this is not the subject of the administrative procedure. In view of the above, at the request of the party, the agencies shall issue additional opinions extending the whole procedure and providing unnecessary administrative burden, both for the agencies and for the parties themselves, with an additional obligation to the costs of the parties themselves. In the new evaluation process for the purpose of accessing the labour market, the outcome of the procedure is an opinion on foreign education qualifications. The opinion contains detailed information on foreign educational qualifications and higher education, i.e. educational and educational institutions and is not related to the rigid form of administrative procedure in relation to the content itself. The evaluation or opinion on foreign education qualifications shall include the determination of the level of qualification, volume, profile and quality of foreign education qualifications, as well as the rights granted by that qualification in the country in which it is acquired. The above is flexible for high-quality educational qualifications holders for easier access to the labour market, quality labour force on the one hand, and the purpose of protection against non-quality qualifications is achieved, which is now the case. The process will be carried out by 3 sectoral agencies, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and the Agency for Education and Education so far. Similarly, the current law does not allow the recognition of foreign educational qualifications on secondary secondary education, which is not part of higher education, thus cutting off persons who have acquired this qualification abroad and should be given recognition or better status in the Croatian labour market. Therefore, the new legal framework introduces the possibility of recognising secondary education which is not part of the system of higher education and this, and the competence specified for the implementation of that part of the procedure is assigned to the Agency for Science and Higher Education. We also point out that the belief of a completed study becomes credible evidence and no longer needs to wait for an international high school to issue a diploma, which lasts for up to a year and more. This reduces the duration of the procedure with persons with foreign education qualifications and enables them to access the labour market more quickly. The new law proposes an amended procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education. In practice, it looks like this, according to the applicable law, two procedures are conducted, high-school recognition procedures are conducted separately from the enrolment process and it often ends after the deadline for enrolment. The recognition procedure shall be carried out as an administrative procedure under the centralised registration procedure of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, if the enrolment is carried out through the Agency for Science and Higher Education, or as an independent procedure conducted by the higher education colleges themselves at the top of enrolment in study programmes not centralised through the Agency for Science and Higher Education, in the case of graduate studies, postgraduate studies and foreign language studies. In this double procedure, the same objective is to establish the level of qualifications acquired in view of the right of access to higher education. Such a double procedure with the same purpose constitutes an unnecessary administrative burden that takes a very long period of time. Therefore, the new law proposes that the high school recognition process be implemented for the purpose of continuing education as part of the application procedure carried out by the High School component where the party wishes to continue studying. Therefore, recognition of the level of foreign education qualifications with the purpose of continuing education will be carried out only once and only in the context of the registration procedure under the centralised registration procedure of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, i.e. at higher schools, if the higher school itself takes advantage of the possibility of conducting the recognition procedure under the registration procedure in order to speed up and administrative discharge of the recognition process. In addition, automatic recognition of the level for higher education qualifications which has been externally evaluated by the Agency, which is a member of the European High Education Quality Insurance Register or derived from qualifications systems related to European qualification systems, is also introduced. Automatic level recognition does not mean automatic enrolment but a decision on enrolment in accordance with university autonomy and academic self-government makes only high school. In this way, recommendations from the EU Council on the mutual automatic recognition of qualifications in higher education and secondary education and the outcome of the 2018 learning period are incorporated into the legislative framework. Automatic recognition is an element of the European higher education area, which all EU Member States need to establish by 2025. Furthermore, this Law makes it clear that education periods are recognised, i.e. the recognition of part of education implemented abroad with the aim of continuing education in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the new provisions is to distinguish the competence of recognising a period of education from the competence of recognising a full qualification for higher education purposes. The recognition of the period of education is conducted by educational and higher education institutions themselves, and the recognition of full qualifications at a higher level is carried out by competent agencies. In the case of a period of primary and secondary education, the recognition procedure shall be carried out by an educational and educational institution in which the applicant wishes to continue his education, and in the case of a period of higher education, the recognition procedure shall be carried out by the colleges themselves, who, in the process of recognition, undertake to adhere to the principles laid down in this Act and other laws in the area of higher education. In addition, a procedure is introduced to evaluate foreign educational qualifications of persons under international and subsidiary protection who are unable to provide evidence of acquired qualifications and family members legally staying in the Republic of Croatia. This builds on the legal gains of UNESCO through recommendations on the recognition of refugee qualifications in accordance with the 2017 Lisbon Convention and finally, the funds for the implementation of this Act are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and the projections for 2023 and '24. in the framework of regular activities of competent authorities, competent agencies, educational institutions and higher schools, and there is no need to provide additional financial resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92323	Here, we have some replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92324	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will take the opportunity to discuss the proposal for this Law and evaluate foreign educational qualifications to mention and ask you about an integrated list of academic and professional names and academic degrees here in Croatia, which I think the Rector's Assembly last brought in 2015 and I see that there are still some irregularities, i.e. injustice. I'll take an example, for example. if you have completed a professional study at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, trade business or accounting and finance before Bologna, you have equalized yourself to being a first-rater with 180 points, if you have completed the same study professionally in Split, you are equalized as an accesser with 120 ECTS points. A lot of people who have completed the pre-bolon process don't know that and think that cod are when they apply for competition and further training, and actually they're not. Can the Ministry warn the Rectorial Assembly and be corrected by this injustice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92325	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92326	Thank you very much, Your Honor. At the previous and previous meeting of the Rector's Assembly, since the Ministry's always representative participates in the meetings of the Rector's Assembly, we have warned all respected rectors of the shortcomings and a whole series of illogicalities in the list of academic and professional names and academic degrees that are acquired at our high schools. Unfortunately, the commission whose head, I think, is Honorable Rector Ante Covic to this day has not done the job, and once again in writing we will warn the Rector's Assembly to pay attention. Academic and professional terms, I don't have much time, but it's just amazing that if you finish the same study, same levels, same content, same quality, different names, whether it's finished in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik, Pula, Slavonski Brod, Varazdin, Zadar or this one, at another high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92327	Another replica, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92328	Thank you, Secretary of State. Here is the proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, in a certain way, complements everything we talked about on the previous point, which is vocational education. It will therefore ensure easier access to the labour market in professions not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the recognition of educational qualifications and periods of education for the purpose of continuing education, so you now have this information, how many such recognition or evaluation requirements are available annually or in some period with which you are available and whether these changes, given that you have at least a small increase in the labour force of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92329	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Unfortunately, I do not have data for lower levels of education, I have data for higher education, annually the Republic of Croatia is conducting a process of recognising higher education qualifications or diplomas for employment around 1000, with 80% in the BiH area. I know by chance that education periods are recognised since I live in the Holy Sunday area where there is a great fluctuation and the arrival of labour with children and then at school there are a number of children and abroad, so that, since educational and educational institutions and these lower qualifications agencies should give that information, but for higher education there are 1,000, about 1000 diplomas, with 50% of them from BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92330	Next replica, respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92331	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, I will refer to that part of your opening presentation in which you have spoken about the provisions of the law relating to the recognition of part of study abroad for the purpose of continuing education and in this sense I am actually experiencing this law towards the internationalisation of higher education in Croatia and I would say that this law constitutes a legal framework for attracting foreign students precisely through the recognition of part of study as abroad for the purpose of continuing studying here. Why is it important that Croatia attracts foreign students, I will just point out and repeat that we have 9 public universities, 2 private and 1 university with public rights and 1760 study programmes, which unfortunately because of the situation in which we are from year to year has fewer and fewer Croatian students [[Intruder: Time.]] And so it's important to attract foreign students. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92332	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Definitely a new legislative framework would have to create those formal assumptions for internationalising higher education in the Republic of Croatia because we have a really small number in the gaps and this, speaking of foreign students. What I mentioned in the opening statement, we have a double application and registration procedure and then that recognition goes quite slowly, the commission, if the university is bigger, this procedure is even slower, the administrative procedure is being conducted and very often it happens to be a final solution, and the academic year has already started, lectures have started, etc., etc. We have attractive study programmes in English, especially for medicine in Zagreb and Split and Rijeka, and I think that in Osijek it is in German and definitely this is the first step towards internationalisation since we cannot boast about it, I think we are at the beginning of EU member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92333	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92334	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, so I am absolutely in favour of the option that Croatia should be as acceptable as possible, not only for employment but for study with us, when you talk about this, not that we are at the very beginning, I think that we are last when it comes to how many students decide to study with us. One, there's a number of factors, but of course all of these reasons and factors should be excluded, so one of these factors is, well, let me put it this way, the formal part. I'm going to ask you a question for the reason I think that until the second reading, I needed it to be incorporated into the interpretation of the law. So to make a little comparison of what it is today, what it is today, how many months, years, days from demand to realisation, and what you're going to achieve with this law, how much you've targeted that in what days, 30, 60, 90, something solves that in an explanation until the next reading you give, and maybe now in this minute you can say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92335	Thank you very much. When it comes to evaluation for the purpose of accessing the labour market, these deadlines are clearly prescribed in the content of the legal text proposal, I think it is 60 days. When it comes to the process of recognition for the purpose of continuing education, which is an administrative procedure, it is then resolved by the general deadlines in the administrative procedure. But we have, as we have a double possibility of an alternative, only a high school, given academic self-government and university autonomy where only a high school determines the criteria of enrolment of students to a high school alone, especially when it comes to university, cannot affect the length of the procedure, the conduct of the universities themselves. By contrast, the agency is acting under the General Administrative Procedure Act and there are deadlines. We can do a second reading and it's devastating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92336	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92337	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As we could hear from your presentation, this Proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications introduces several newspapers, notably the scope of recognition. It also shortens the procedure from 2 to 1 procedure related to continuing education, but what I am personally interested in is, in some ways, the public, when this part is mentioned, therefore, related to this recognition or the quality of diploma. We have heard from you that, therefore, it will be through the opinion of foreign education qualifications that will in some way introduce this protection or stricter quality control of diplomas in view of here, that around that number may be 1,300 a year when taken even lower levels, of which 1,000 are from the neighbouring country. Can you perhaps tell how this protection will go?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92338	Thank you very much. The current recognition system for the purpose of employment or access to the labour market was carried out through the administrative procedure very often and ended in the administrative court, in the administrative dispute of the party requiring recognition and the agency was very difficult in the administrative dispute to demonstrate a significant difference in quality, especially on the parties that achieved higher education qualifications in BiH and the court would not consider it appropriate that the agency proved that there was a significant difference in quality, and on the basis of the administrative disputes these parties received, received a dispute and had to be recognised as high school qualifications, whether it was an academic degree of doctoral science, either, and in the process of evaluation through the opinion, both the level and quality will be determined and the significant difference in the degree of quality of the school at which it was acquired, the outcomes of learning, Who valued, all of this one employer can see. [[Intruder: Time]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92339	The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92340	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it is certainly commendable that more order is being introduced, hastening and modernising this procedure because it is not only about foreigners coming to study in Croatia, it is about our citizens who want access to the labour market based on qualifications they have acquired abroad. But in my opinion it's still too long, especially when we're talking about access to the labour market, 60 days seems like a pretty long time, I think 30 days should be more than enough. Unfortunately, there are also objections to the nomotechnical drafting of the law, i.e. to elaborate the law as prescribed and how it is common practice. In fact, the attorney general expressed certain doubts because, as with the laws we discussed this morning, there is no explanation at the level of what we otherwise have in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92341	Thank you very much. After 60 days there is a large and sensitive and responsible job where you have to check the foreign or foreign higher school, its content and structure, its curricula, names, the calling of the course or college, as well as the structure of the staff of teachers performing and learning outcomes. On the other hand, you often have to contact this high school to provide you with some documentation because mostly there is no content on the web pages, let's say there is no offense whether any university or university in Travnik will contact you or, or, or, or, in some other part, since in BiH we have a flood of universities and definitely an agency, in communication with the agency because the representatives of the agency participated in the development, in the drafting of this proposal for legal text, which is why 30 days has been taken. As regards nomotechnical rules, the single nomotechnical rules adopted by this high home were applied. The question of reasoning is indeed, and you yourself are aware of a single meta language in the field of education, educational qualifications and structures is very difficult to read, let alone follow in terms of structures, sentences and concepts, but in any case criticism is always welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92342	The next replica is a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92343	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, the mobility of people in the labour market and education has been strengthened by Croatia's entry into the EU and has demanded that such a law be passed and I support you in your intention to settle what has not been defined so far. My question may be termological, and it's about nostrification and recognition. We used to have nostrification, now we have a confession, so if you can explain what this one is, what's the difference that we know what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92344	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's definitely interesting from a sociological and linguistic point of view, because that notion of nostrification has entered the daily speech. Nostration was used sometime until 2003 until this law was passed, it is still used for regulated professions. Nostration is a strictly formalized procedure in which you determine the complete content of a study with all his colleagues, learning outcomes, and let us take a typical example of a regulated profession, it is a profession of a doctor where you must check whether someone who has completed medical school in Foca has fulfilled those all through the chamber system, through the system of the Ministry of Health, what all of the Law on regulated professions implements. The recognition process is something which is also a formalised process, but it is much more nuanced and comprehensive in terms of general approach and it is the practice of all EU Member States, but the nostrification programme has kept only Spain as, as an EU Member State, they still have this rigid rigid system, unlike the recognition process that Croatia has introduced in line with the guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92345	The next replica of the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92346	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, today we are trying to resolve foreign educational qualifications with legal changes, and I must first congratulate you for being as uninterrupted as most of your colleagues in the position today you have said the state of things and thus communicate on the relevant parliamentary committee, so I thank you, therefore, on behalf of all of us in opposition. I wanted to ask you how we're going to deal with foreign qualifications when we haven't even solved these Croatians yet. I primarily think of university specialists and you know for yourself that they are in some air-empty space, that universities charge for such studies and at least 60,000 kunas as much as it costs the cheapest doctoral study from the University of Zadar, Croatia. These people are promised hills and valleys when they are enrolled, and in the first place they are promised to achieve an 8% salary allowance as did former masters of science, but the consequence is that they are completely unrecognizable on the labour market and that today we have thousands and thousands of university specialists who do not have the right to this 8% salary supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92347	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92348	Thank you very much. It is simply an unrecognized qualification by employers and the labour market, a demanding study of the postgraduate level which I think should first be recognised by the state administration. It is also a question of the relationship between collective bargaining and the whole system of salaries in state and public services, which requires much wider elaboratement. It's my personal impression and I answer to you honestly. We must not wait to resolve the issue without talking because there have been a lot of speeches in the previous point where I have heard about the labour market where the harmonisation of study programmes at public and higher universities with the needs of the labour market, the economy, the national interests of this country, and let alone the question, the question of qualifications and this issue of postgraduate specialist study, which then interferes with the field of biomedicine and health where they have specific specialist studies which are a condition for specializations in the profession as I have, for example, veterinary, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92349	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92350	Thank you. Dear Secretary, here I will join my colleague, so I will actually commend you because often here, as she said on the council board, you warn about problems throughout the system, especially here in recent times and inflation of doctoral studies, we are talking about these scandals in doctoral studies these days, and what remains on the board this morning unarranged, so just to clarify for the sake of the public, we were discussing whether this law applies to regulated professions or to unregulated ones, so it's kind of unarranged in the air, so now to clarify it for the sake of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92351	Thank you very much. Therefore, this law does not apply to regulated professions. We know exactly the list of regulated professions and they are well dependent on the resolute authorities of the state administration, but also the chambers, the Czech associations and there will need to make some step, unfortunately the population is getting older, for example in the field of palitative care, in the field of medicine etc... From the school network, I was once at a meeting of the Health Committee, so then, it varies, say, the number of students enrolled in secondary medical or medical schools, but it is a general issue of access, we lack nurses and healthcare professionals, and the question is access to the chambers themselves, of course they protect and regulate the profession in the field of the EU and the Croatian labour market and standards, etc., but there will have to be some shifts, from nursing homes we lack employees to, to, to health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92352	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, everyone praises you for your unsuspecting and specific response. If you answer me specifically in a minute the question I will ask you I will believe that this law is for the benefit of Croatian citizens, not for foreign nationals who come here to work. If a Croatian citizen was born of Croatian emigrants in the United States, where he graduated from elementary school, high school, graduated from college, and later graduated from law school, how, where and when will he be recognised as the law school here in Croatia? Do I sometimes get the impression that we Croats know better than others, in nostrification processes we judge Harvard for what they don't do to us. We in the approval process evaluate BMW, Mercedes to see if they produce cars that satisfy our automotive industry and our standards. So, here's exactly how, when and where, and I'll tell you who it's about later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92354	Thank you very much. So, if this law, with God's help and the will of you respected representatives of this high home, is elected, a person can come to the Agency for Science and Higher Education and submit an evaluation request for the purpose of joining the labour market. Now, in order for a person to be a lawyer to have a chamber of lawyers who prescribes that someone has to pass, legal profession, there's little I know, is specific because they edit and process through a dogma, through the theory of every state's legal system. Of course, more and more of our lawyers are forced to learn and European law because of the EU. We are in line with the European space of higher education, we have a big problem in the process of recognising a diploma from the United States, but this is the way to some kind of labour market accession. Now, we have this chamber system that I said, which protects myself as a Swedish association and you have to pass a judicial exam and practice, being at the principles and getting experience and practice to open a law firm, but here's the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92355	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92356	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary of State, I saw here in electronic counselling, and my sister who is also a teacher in the education system told me to ask you anyway to further explain exactly the problem you yourself mentioned in the opening presentation. So, they come to us in a certain number and foreigners here in Croatia, they come to work, of course they have children, so some of them are the nature of the work that comes in the course of the school year, so with an unfinished degree of primary education, so please once again just for the sake of the public to explain how this new bill and how, how it looks at a solution to such a problem. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92357	... The school is crucial because who is more invited than the educational institution of our teachers to check the degree of adoption of learning outcomes for lower education periods and there is, in any case, if it comes to primary education and secondary general school education agency, if it comes to vocational education, then in this case, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults whose director was at the previous point during your discussion today. [[Last-on speaker]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92358	And the last replica, the respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92359	Respect for the Secretary of State, in your presentation, you mentioned the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional studies, so I'm going to give myself freedom and touch that part a little bit. I would like to know exactly what needs to be done by a person who graduated from the School of Medicine in Slovenia in order to access the labour market. Why that question? Because I have already mentioned several times in the debate a specific case of a young person from Croatia who completed a medical high school in Slovenia and in order to have that diploma completed over 2000 hours further or otherwise has completed only primary school, while if he wants to go to do the job of a nurse in Germany only B-2 level German, so I want to know what she has to do and is that going to improve a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92360	Thank you very much. Already when I was asked by the esteemed representative Šimičević as a procedure and recognition as a procedure, I said that the procedure of nostrification is a complex and formalised procedure where you check, in this case, if it is a secondary medical school or an expert study of a nurse, a complete curricula of the curricula of the curricula of the curricula and of the programme or of the silo as it is already called in higher education with colleagues, with the content of individual colleges and the quality of the grades, and on the other hand, since it is a regulated profession which is listed in that procedure also participates in the Chamber of Sisters together with the Ministry of Health. One complex, complex procedure, protects itself, protects this Croatian regulated profession, Croatian labour market, I believe, and this is also an announcement and probably the need to amend this Law on regulated professions, what I mentioned, because of the palitativeness, because of the ageing population, who in the Dalmatian Zagorje will be... Grandpas and grandmothers or doves and grandmothers because there isn't, there's no simple possibility or space. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92361	Thanks to the secretary of state, no more replicas, you can sit down. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to discuss is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and, on their behalf, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92362	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's as I said in the replica, I think it's a good thing that we're sorting out some things in terms of recognising qualifications acquired abroad because of access to work, work or the labour market, either because of continuing education. This process has been quite long, complicated so far, and sometimes a gathering, as the secretary of state said at first, and I think that all of us who have some relationship with education can talk about examples that have been so. And therefore also because this law is actually quite outdated by the one that is now in force and because of the fact that some things I hope will speed up and because of the fact that we are actually harmonizing with the European acquis this law deserves support. But there are a few things I would like to trouble you in your first reading to get a better bill in the second reading. Namely, as in the first law, we must mention this again, the reasoning of the law is not prepared in accordance with the rules of nomochniks and the provision of art. 175. The Rules of Procedure of HS. It stipulates that the reasons for the law provide explanations of certain provisions contained in the draft law. Persuasion of the content of a particular, individual legal provision without further clarification actually makes it impossible for us to work or give us no insight into the clear reasons for the adoption of the law. It's something that can be fixed until the second reading, so you shouldn't diminish the value of the law as such if the law is quality, so I hope you pay more attention to that. However, colleagues and colleagues with regard to the recognition of qualifications from the EU should not really have problems here. So all the diplomas that are now being issued have something called the Master's Supplement, or an addition to a diploma where all the colleges you attend during your schooling are clearly numbered, and that is very transparent and clear and can be checked quickly. As far as I know, I haven't graduated in a long time, but the last time I did, it was many years ago, but I got the same diplomas of Suplement in which both in English and in Croatian it was clearly numbered, precisely because of that, because of the easier recognition of qualifications abroad, outside Croatia. The debate by the secretary of state in some replicas, however, does not lead to the impression that some of the provisions in this law, not to say the whole law, are being introduced almost because of BiH and diplomats in BiH. It is clear to me that in the southeast of Europe in BiH, Serbia and some other countries there is quite an irregularity on, let's say, higher education in the market, that BiH is not the only thing that, to be understood, that there are doubts about it, but I think that the process itself should not actually be the hostage of such unregulated systems, or that those who come from regulated systems should not suffer for it. And that's why, all right, I can also accept that we can't get a deadline to recognise a diploma with a goal of accessing the labour market down from 60 to 30 days, but let's try to find some mid-term, about 45 days, I think it should be more than enough. In any case, I think that 60 days if we're talking about access to work, so not only about recognising a diploma but about accessing the labour market is a pretty long time. The more I say, if some, some countries, some universities, etcetera, require a little more careful implementation, I think it can be done within 45 days. At the end of the day and these universities themselves, I think it is in the interest to respond as soon as possible so that the recognition of their diplomas or qualifications acquired at their universities would actually be more luxuriant for those who attend or know that these diplomas will be able to benefit beyond the borders of that country. I also welcome the fact that we are in line with some EU rules, but I say that, as far as the EU is concerned, there should be no bigger problems. Also, as for some organised, old and well-regulated high school systems such as Anglo-Saxon if we're going to talk about the United Kingdom or the United States or Canada, there are, of course, more examples, but in any case, I don't think there should be any major problems. That is why I think that because of the law's intensity, which is easier and faster, a faster process of recognition should be considered these possible changes until the second reading of course in consultation with those who should do so. In any case, I hope that until the second reading and after the debates and suggestions we have received, which we will only produce in the debate we will also get a quality document that will deserve broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92363	Next is the debate on behalf of Attorneys' Club of the Homeland Movement of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Recommendation of the Council of the EU of 26 November 2018 on the promotion of automatic mutual recognition of qualifications in higher education and secondary education and training and the outcome of the learning period abroad is recommended to Member States by 2025 at the latest. take the steps necessary to achieve the automatic mutual recognition of the level of qualifications and the period of education to continue higher education in accordance with certain criteria and principles, or to take steps necessary to make significant progress towards the same goal and in secondary education. The Council's recommendation aims to ensure that any student and student who conducts an education abroad is automatically recognised for the purpose of obtaining qualifications or for mobility for learning purposes for the purposes of learning acquired learning outcomes during that period for the purpose of continuing education, which would not prejudice the right of higher schools or educational institutions to impose specific conditions for enrolment in certain programmes or to verify the credibility of documents. In addition, it is proposed to distinguish recognition from the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications and to remove the notion of nostrification, which was respected by Mr. Secretary of State in this pre-debate and explained to us. This law also aims to improve the quality of information on qualifications acquired abroad with the purpose of access to the labour market so that, on the basis of information obtained on knowledge and skills, and the rights acquired by competent authorities and employers can provide reasoned assessments. Certainly this law is important because it is also an indirect type of protection of the quality of entry into our labour market from the surrounding countries, which is of course unusually important for our students and students who, without such a protective mechanism, could be brought into an unequal position in relation to external students. These changes should prevent unfair competition from certain non-quality educational institutions from surrounding countries to our educational institutions, universities, universities and higher schools. There is also a commendation of the article. 16. where the automatic recognition of the level of foreign educational qualifications is indicated if the qualification is acquired in a country where the national qualification framework is linked to the European qualification framework, and the whole story of the qualification frameworks has been discussed recently here. This article should simplify the process of recognising these documents for further education or employment. So, in principle, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will clearly wait for a second reading and we will see what will change. Interesting are some of the perspectives of this law, some have also been mentioned in the discussion on the Committee where it is said that the Republic of Croatia should make additional efforts to attract foreign students, and in this regard also the need to change some other laws, which is in the debate on the past point, no, the points of the agenda one colleague said well, let's not look at the laws as one living being, all laws are in fact in a certain way in mutual influence. Therefore, this should be highlighted and may also be amended by the Income Tax Act in the section relating to taxation, taxing scholarships, as well as by the Health Insurance Act, which would ensure the health protection of foreign students studying in the Republic of Croatia. We know, of course, that here may be one of the most important issues of the quality of diplomas from third countries, especially those in our immediate environment. Of course, there are some in the Croatian public and I must even admit very good jokes, but we will not be talking jokes here right now, we will wait for a second reading of the law, and until then, in principle, this first reading as a Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement absolutely welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92365	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92366	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. First commendation, it is good that finally the recognition is arranged after secondary vocational education, so not tertiary, post-secondary because there are such qualifications, there are plenty in the EU, even in our neighbourhood in Slovenia, and it should certainly be welcomed. It is also good that for the recognition of foreign higher education, which is for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications for the purpose of accessing the labour market, the administrative procedure has been lifted, as you said yourself, and it is quite rigid and this makes the matter more effective. Now two criticisms. First, the administrative procedure is not abolished precisely in that segment that requires maximum flexibility, which refers to the recognition of higher education qualifications because students come with different qualifications, periods, studies and learning outcomes, etc. Now, in response to the comments in the public consultation, it is said or justified by the administrative procedure that the new Law on Administrative Procedure provides for electronic procedure. At the same time, however, it is prescribed here that the originals or certified documents should be handed over physically, and it is also not just about the speed of the procedure, but as you yourself said about the kind of rigidity of the administrative procedure that leaves too much room for various situations that occur quite often in higher education when, for example, it is important to give them the opportunity to do so. the high school where previous education has been achieved is not accredited in the country in which it is located, but it is, for example, recognizable by the quality of the study or may not be accredited because it is a supranational institution, etc. Secondly, international recommendations are, I think, that the Lisbon Convention also states that recognition of foreign qualifications or periods of study for the purpose of continuing education should be exclusively in the jurisdiction of higher universities and should be carried out in the context of their registration procedures, and that all other bodies such as agencies should, for example, play a consultative role. In particular, Articles 13 and 14 speak about this, and in fact, it is unclear what relationship these articles are in, who chooses the places in which the recognition process is conducted, in which case it is a high school, in which the competent agency, which if someone wants to apply, might want to apply parallelly to two higher schools. Article 18 is also something positive, it speaks of automatic recognition and is referred to the European Qualifications Framework and the European Quality Insurance Register, and now we just need to ask here whether we just wanted to limit the achievement of this automatic recognition because, for example, we wanted to do so. The European Qualifications Framework does not include the United States and no longer includes the United Kingdom. Finally, Articles 20, 21 and 22 speak about the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection. Anticipation of some procedure for asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection which, for legitimate reasons, is not able to leave documentation showing that foreign qualifications is certainly necessary, but cannot be solved without a designed system and probably without new resources. The information document on foreign educational qualifications, which is therefore mentioned here, introduces an instrument used in Europe as a compromise and should be between some administrative solution and a complete refusal of people with insufficient documentation. However, it will need additional resources because, for example, Article 21 of this Act states that the mandatory parts of this law are quotes, information document on foreign educational qualifications and information on educational institution or higher education which issued the qualification of data on the profile, level and assessment of the scope of qualifications. And in countries where asylum seekers come from, asylum seekers and people under subsidiary protection are often not so easily available. There are also problems with, of course, websites with competent authorities. Now countries that receive a lot of such requests have resources such as the original speakers who can conduct an interview with the applicant or who for a number of years are involved in the education systems of individual countries and who know the details that allow them to filter information. So I would say that given all this, it's quite obvious that establishing appropriate mechanisms should certainly be done, but it costs. And that's why I don't think there's a claim that to implement this law, there's no need to provide additional funding. In the end, Article 7 provides for the documentation to be submitted by the holder of the foreign qualification. It is also required for a basic qualification correction as well as for a supplemental correction with the original or certified copy of the certificate is also required for certified translation into the Croatian or English language. Now, the public consultation has raised the question of whether it is necessary to ask for translation if there are documents in the Latin and, for example, in the Bosnian or Serbian or Montenegrin languages. The question of course makes sense as it makes sense or possibly makes sense and a positive or negative answer, but certainly there is no point in the answer given by the legislator in public consultation, and that answer is, accepting translation into English is an exception for potential students from Africa and Asia where there is no possibility of certified translation to Croatia. And now, at the very end, something else quite technical, but perhaps not quite irrelevant. The public consultation also stressed that the recognition of foreign qualifications could or should be carried out on the basis of a certificate of qualification issued by an foreign university, and you spoke to the State Secretary about it, because often only the issue of a diploma lasts too long, the promoter said in a comment in public consultation that Article 12 of the Public IC implies and such an appropriate confirmation, it is certainly fine, but in fact I think it would be nicer if the explicits were written in the legal text or in that Article 12 or somewhere in the interpretation of the concepts. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92367	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92368	When we talk about the recognition of foreign qualifications, we must be aware that they should be spoken of in a Croatian context where it is revealed as a complex issue that I will try more to open up space for discussion within an individual debate because in Croatia we rarely have a case where not what we would like to talk about foreign qualifications in principle, and to say that our students go to prestigious foreign universities then, upon returning to Croatia, we need to nostrification of diplomas, but we have a reverse case where even different malversions occur where our students who fail to enroll universities in the Republic go to neighbouring countries where they enroll these same universities by significantly lower criteria and by an uneven system of evaluations to return to Croatia and seek recognition of these same qualifications and compete on our labour market. So it doesn't matter exactly what diplomas are and who may have abused that same function because you have cases where professors, the same professors teach at universities in the Republic of Croatia and at universities in neighbouring countries where we can say that they suggest or a little more aggressively suggest that students don't pass exams with them so that then they can go to the next country. So, without even putting pressure on the whole system, we should examine who to whom we should be answering these questions in general requires recognition of foreign qualifications when we talk about higher education in the Republic of Croatia, where such requirements come from, how compatible our programmes are and in the extreme line of what kind of personnel we get in return. The other thing I'd like to talk about here is two specific things about these very legal changes. It is one that is not accepted as an observation, which concerns Article 10 of the cut-off deadline for issuing an opinion since this legal framework is going towards simplifying the procedure, and we are aware of how complicated it was before and how difficult it was at all to obtain that recognition of qualifications and that, as in Article 10, that deadline has been reduced from 60 to 30 days. If there may be exceptional cases, it may also be necessary to list an additional item of the law covering these exceptions, however, because of these exceptional cases, we cannot afford to make the system more passive in terms of supporting the disposal of the deadline unless it is necessary. What is said, and what is otherwise the problem of these legal frameworks relating to the educational processes that we have discussed today and before, and also now we are talking about Article 14 and in fact the uncertainty about the ingenuity of individual institutions concerning the recognition of foreign qualifications that should be further developed. Now it would also look back on a part that is in some way news or a question that will only become current in Croatia if migration trends continue. And this is recognition of the period of study and qualifications of refugees and displaced persons. So, we're going directly on here, so on and on and on. The Lisbon Convention that talks about it next. Article 7 each State shall take the necessary and possible measures within its educational system and in accordance with its constitutional, legal and regulatory provisions in order to develop appropriate procedures of fair and effective determination whether refugees and displaced persons require access to higher education for the continuation of study programmes or to seek employment opportunities including cases where the period of study is, and now that is, in fact, an interesting, prior learning or qualifications acquired in another State cannot be proved on the basis of an id. So when we have people who will claim to own certain qualifications, and we can't prove it materially. On the one hand, you can really have people who have been unable to take their qualifications with them because of an invisible life position, and on the other hand you can have people who abuse this system. How much our system is prepared to even check these qualifications and how this will seem to remain an open question especially if we have in mind some of the things that are proposed within these legal changes. For example, what is shown as interesting is that what is said in response to public consultation requests for recognition and evaluation of previous learning can not be submitted for the purpose of obtaining full qualifications at level 6 HKO and more. So it's about when we talk about level 6 and above, it's the level of pre-graduate or graduate college and still this higher education. What does that mean? Why can it be tolerated for the lower, and why can't it be done for more and in what way will it be arranged and will it be introduced into the system at all? If this argument is correct, which is stated in public consultation, those who claim to have high educational qualifications and who are unable to prove them. The second question concerns what is referred to in Article 21 of the Foreign Education Qualification. Therefore, for persons referred to in Article 20(1), this means asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of a family of asylum seekers or foreigners under subsidiary protection who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia, who are equal to the rights and responsibilities of Croatian citizens. They are therefore not able to provide documentation and are expected to demonstrate foreign educational qualifications and will receive, on this basis, an information document on the foreign educational qualification which is data on the educational institution or higher education institution which has issued the qualification, profile, level and assessment of the scope of the qualification. What will continue to happen with this information document on foreign education qualifications and how this document will at all serve within a system that should only prove their qualifications if I understand very well from this response at their lower level. Therefore, if the title itself suggests a further clarification that it is an informational qualification defined as an irregular act adopted by the competent agency on the basis of the requests of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection which is not in a position to provide documentation proving an external educational qualification, they can only understand that it will serve as an option that opens up room for proof of its own qualification. It would be very useful to hear in this sense how much our system is even prepared for the processing of such people, how many such demands we currently have and how much it has proved that we have justified or not justified requirements, how many people were unable to prove their qualifications. I also point out once again when we talk about the recognition of these qualifications so that we can have a full debate, it would also be important to know from which countries the greatest interest in recognising these different educational qualifications comes from. Because that question that we want to answer and that question is what we are trying to solve with these legal changes, and also by prior recognition of the Lisbon Convention, to make our system competitive, so that we are this desirable destination that people return to, at the very end of the line and a desirable destination in which people acquire high education qualifications. Is there any movement on this trail, what trends are and whether we are at all competitive with our education system is something that we should talk about to see if we are making legal changes in the right direction. We don't have that kind of data here. We have in general what is happening and within the Lisbon Convention, some general point of speeding up, which is justified and I certainly welcome, then some ambiguity about how to regulate the status of educational qualifications of persons who cannot prove their educational qualifications, certain discrepancies within institutions that should grant those qualifications within this legal framework and insufficient deadlines because they are ultimately the ones who are the most protracting the procedure. And the question like where interest comes from and if we meet on this road and with certain malfeasances is something that we should at least consider more seriously in the debate, but I will leave it for individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92369	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92370	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we therefore have before us a proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications which will replace, so by way of effect, the existing Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. As we have heard, the law does not apply to regulated professions that are here today when you look at a list of 53 groups and about 243 professions or specialities, so this is, this law does not apply to them, they go by other procedures, it applies exclusively to unregulated professions. We are talking about this law of recognition and evaluation of foreign qualifications, so at a time when we are shaken on one side and a scandal in doctoral studies, therefore not at foreign universities, on our own or at our own university. We are also talking about the inflation of doctoral studies at all universities in Croatia, the ministry, here and the secretary, as I said on the Committee on Science and Education, and I often warn about it. We are also discussing this law at a time when we lack labour, when almost a million people are in the last 30 years. or if from the last census, 400,000 people have left Croatia and we are chronically lacking workers, young experts, people who would launch the development of Croatia. We also discuss it at a time when we are aware that in neighbouring countries there is inflation of private universities and universities of questionable quality to come to study both foreign and our students who then come to Croatia with such diplomas of questionable quality or continue education or join the labour market. The law is therefore also important because it is also indirect to protect the quality of entry into our labour market from the surrounding countries and should in some ways prevent unfair competition from individual non-quality educational institutions from surrounding countries to our educational institutions. Somewhere I found a quote that says that the richer the country attracts more foreign students, or when it comes to the quality of education is measured somewhere by the number of foreign students, since quality education certainly attracts foreign students, and we are by the number of foreign students at the bottom of all the scales. Education is important and the foundation of every modern society we don't need all the time, we hear it in, in the air that we are a country, we seek to be a country of knowledge, but here we often have scandals of a guy that at the head of some I don't know agency, chamber or so on, pick up or place people who are found out that I don't know or, or some of the owners of these graduates questionable qualities from neighbouring countries or don't give God and buy diplomas, end up with some average, if, if such people are at the head of these institutions, they're certainly not going to hire a graduate from Harvard or from the best, our best graduates from the best universities because simply bad people are surrounded by bad people. When it comes to recognition in foreign qualifications amongst citizens as we have heard, there is still this notion of nostrification of the diploma is whether when someone says a diploma actually uses this term to nostrify a diploma although the procedure is abandoned by the adoption of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications as early as 2003, and it was based on what we heard from the comparison of the study educational programmes with related programmes carried out in Croatia, and it resulted in a correction that confirmed the equality of foreign qualifications with qualifications acquired in Croatia, i.e. it was a solution to nostrification. Instead of nostrifying this law, a procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with the purpose of employment and the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications or educational periods abroad for the purpose of continuing education has been introduced. Therefore, there was no longer a comparison of the content of the study educational programmes, but rather a formal confirmation of the value of foreign educational qualifications. In practice, the application of this law has therefore proved that procedures are not transparent enough, clear as to how citizens, not only to citizens, but also to employers. There have been duplication of procedures, administrative burdens and institutions and people, administrative barriers, high costs, so persons who approach Croatia's labour market with qualifications acquired abroad. And then the bill of this law actually seeks to reduce all these administrative obstacles. It is proposed to further distinguish recognition from the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications, introduces the possibility of recognition after secondary education which is not part of the higher education system that is present in Croatia, but is therefore out of Croatia, and all of this is handed over to the Agency's competence. The outcome of this procedure is an opinion on foreign education qualifications and is foreseen as an irregular act. We have already heard here a comment on this or that is a positive step forward because it will facilitate the process of accessing the labour market, and most European agencies are working in such a way. What remains as an administrative act, so what has not been abolished, the administrative procedure has not been abolished for the recognition of therefore higher education qualifications. Amendments also propose that the procedure be carried out only once in the course of the registration procedure with the Agency for Science and Higher Education, or at higher universities, with the fact that the higher school here will now choose whether to work on its own or through the Agency. I don't know, maybe it's the same thing that might not have been put into a choice, but here, let's not touch the autonomy. At present, these two separate procedures are being conducted, which is simply unnecessary and often as we have heard the secretary say, so the procedure was so long that it would end up after entering the high school itself. We also welcome the automatic recognition of the level of qualifications of higher universities that the Agency has externally valued which is a member of the European High Education Insurance Register or that stem from qualifications systems related to European qualification frameworks. The adoption of this law therefore considers that it will improve the whole process, students will be relieved and the recognition of the part of study abroad. For example, students participating in Erasmus programmes are recognised therefore for exams passed at foreign universities. And we generally think that we should work to attract as many foreign students as possible as I have said whether the quality of education is at, sometimes the quality of education is measured by the number of foreign students, but I would say not only that they study here in Croatia that in some way education becomes some kind of export, education is used as some kind of export, but that after the study they stay and work there. So we need to become countries attractive to people for life and for work. Not only are our local people here, not just working to get the local people to leave, but also to have our website come and live and work. In this respect, some other laws should be amended, the Income Tax Act in the section relating to the taxation of scholarships, which we discussed today at the Committee on Science and Education and the Health Insurance Act, which would ensure the health care of foreign students. There have been speeches today, when they are enrolled in these universities, they have an initial cost of around 6,000 kunas, they must immediately give health insurance to students, some non-EU students, so from third countries is a big, big burden. What is also positive is the introduction of the procedure of evaluating foreign educational qualifications of persons under international subsidiarity protection, and the remarks we read here in public consultation referred to the problems of unequal practice in this regard may arise because here is the law as they say and liberally set. We have seen in the comments from the promoters, therefore, that in this sense the proposal of the University of Zagreb on the drafting of the rules governing the criteria of recognition and evaluation for the purpose of continuing education at the higher school level is accepted, so that we will see if this rule will help to ensure that the criteria are really balanced. Here we are, therefore, welcoming each proposal that will speed up, facilitate the process of recognition and evaluation, and it seems to us that there is still room for progress, especially in other spheres, especially for regulated professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92371	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92372	Thank you. We welcome this proposal for legislative changes although I must say that some changes are so much milky water that they would say rather than root changes to what we need in the process of recognising foreign educational qualifications. I have consulted with several universities and with the academic community, they actually say there is nothing new, that part of the process will be made much easier in terms of this automatic recognition but that there are still major problems with relations and communication with the agencies themselves. So they said that we have 3 sectoral agencies and that the processes themselves are very often doubled, so neither the parties in the process nor the high schools know exactly who to exactly, exactly. We welcome this automatic recognition because it really doesn't make sense to challenge and graduates to people who have received a degree we can tell from some world-ranked university, especially those from which they are accredited by agencies within the ERIC/NARIC network and in fact the European Quality Insurance Register in higher education. However, there are many more problems. Here's a particular problem that this law doesn't really mean, and that's the problem of joint studies and diplomas that come from joint studies. In particular, here at the University of Pula there is a joint doctoral study that was assessed by the Agency for Science and Higher Education of the International Commission at the highest quality assessment. However, it is performed with the University of Burgenland, Sopron, who are also throughout the system of these European Quality Registers, but when doctors come to nostrification, the agencies themselves do not know where they would go and the procedure takes a year, year and a half. These legal changes do not solve and should indeed be seen what will happen to the nosetriification and recognition of educational qualifications created by the joint studies for which we seek to carry out as much as possible in education strategies as possible. Then I'm also a little confused by the fact that the public consultation agencies themselves have shown a few criticisms, I mean especially the Science and Higher Education Agency as if it's not in the same building, that it's not tabled with the Ministry of Science and Education, so I don't know if there's been any coordination or error in communication. And I repeat, I welcome these changes and I think they are going in a good way, but until the second reading, there is still some work to be done, especially in the form of duplication of the three sectoral agencies themselves, and we have seen that the Agency for Science and Higher Education is also strongly opposed to the implementation of the administrative procedure. Furthermore, although the proposals of the University of Zagreb for the making of regulations have been accepted and it is said at the public consultation that the agreement of the rectorial assembly has been obtained, we see that the University of Rijeka has given several criticisms at public counseling, in particular, and that we are always at risk of suing the constitutional court, I believe that the State Secretary himself knows this, especially by violating the autonomy of the university and actually collapsing with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, as well as the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, where the University of Rijeka argues that it is unnecesssarily restricting itself to the law of established autonomy of higher universities in the field of recognition and evaluation of previous learning, and, in particular, thinks of art. The 15th century 3 determines this autonomy of higher schools and art. 15. The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which says the process of application, recognition and evaluation of previous learning at level 6 HKO and is more regulated by the general instruments of higher schools. So again, we come to a confusion and you know for yourself that in addition to the problems of administrative procedures and duplication of the work of the three sectoral agencies, the biggest gaps were when we have to recognise the foreign educational qualifications of the first level of education with the purpose of accessing the second level of higher education, and not only that the procedure is duplicated between the agency and the higher school but the procedure is doubled between even the high school itself where a separate recognition is actually carried out in the registration procedure, and then you have at that high school so-called. offices for academic recognition at high schools, so you have a double procedure, I mean it's a really big nonsens that's actually going to be partly solved by these legal changes because again we have to respect this autonomy of the university and in fact again in their jurisdiction it's going to be the way they're going to handle it themselves. We also spoke here today and the promoter explained the recognition of foreign educational qualifications of regulated professions that are not subject to this professional qualification law. I think that we are all aware that there are the most problems here and that it is actually necessary to review the decision itself with regulated professions as soon as possible, to introduce some unique regulatory system, which has actually been done by all developed countries within the EU, all in line with the EU acquis, which means there is no obstacle that we cannot do the same in Croatia. I also said, and I will use this more in an individual debate that we need to regulate the status of qualifications of Croatians, not only abroad, thinking of university specialists who are several thousand in Croatia and who do not have, who are not fully recognised on the labour market and who are always promised the 8% supplement they once had when enrolling in these studies. I also have to say on the issue of making qualifications of compliance with the Croatian qualification framework, I think here you have really set yourself some ambitious goals and ambitious deadlines. In particular, I know that the Agency for Education and Education implements a control and intermediary body for several HKO projects at the level of Croatia and higher universities, and I must say that the entry of standards of occupation and qualifications goes so badly and so slowly that the issue, in March more or less, ends all these projects, that the question of whether, within the period of 2, 3 years, I am lying, how long all the projects have come to create all these standards of interest, then qualifications, and in fact, the high schools that are the holders of these projects will probably have to carry out some financial corrections because they are doing more and less work on projects financed by the European Social Fund. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92373	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92374	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, and I am sure that the adoption of this law, which is in the reading process, will remove any ambiguity in the process of recognising foreign educational qualifications. We are witnessing that we have more and more mobility, especially since Croatia is in the EU and, both people and goods, and then knowledge, and therefore a greater need for recognition of qualifications. Here, I would like to commend it to the same secretary of state who is also on board, and here in the assembly loud, clear and resolute, so I don't know why it's called Shušak, or it would be that it's not whether it is. The procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications in the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications, and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications under the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The adoption of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications in 2003 introduced two procedures instead of nostrification. A procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with a purpose of employment and another procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications or periods educated abroad for the purpose of continuing education, which means formal confirmation of the value of foreign educational qualifications or periods of education issued by the competent authority for the purpose of recognising education or employment. The accession of the EU's Republic of Croatia and the adoption of other specific rules have led to certain shortcomings in the implementation of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications due to a lack of clarity between the agencies in the education system in charge of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and the bodies responsible for regulating professions, doubled competent or not existing competences. The uncertainty arises from the fact that the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications does not clearly distinguish the procedures for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with the objective of access to the labour market and is not regulated and access to the profession established as regulated in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the lack of access to the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with the aim of access to the labour market, there have also been shortcomings in the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and periods of education with a view to continuing education, in particular in view of trends in the development of European education policy. The recognition of qualifications with the purpose of continuing education at the first level of higher education under the existing Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications may take up to 60 days and end after the party has already entered a higher school. This procedure under existing law shall be carried out by the Agency for Education and Education in the case of recognition of the secondary qualification of general education or of the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults in the event of a qualification acquired in vocational education and training. In the case of enrolment in the first year of the study programme at the first level of higher education, the central application office of the Agency for Science and Higher Education as part of the central application procedure, which doubles and needless administrative burdens. The duplication of procedures extending its duration also occurred when recognising foreign educational qualifications of the first level of higher education with the purpose of accessing the second level of higher education. It shall be introduced automatically, and automatic recognition of levels for higher education qualifications which were externally evaluated by an agency that is a member of the European High Education Quality Insurance Register or stemming from qualifications systems associated with the European Qualification Framework shall also be introduced. It is about conditions that must be cumulatively met. Automatic level recognition does not mean automatic enrolment, but a decision on enrolment makes a high school. This law should, however, be based on the principle of promoting internationalisation and international mobility with the application of qualification frameworks and European principles in ensuring higher education, as shown in the National Strategy 2023 and the Resolution on the Strategic Framework for Cooperation in the field of education and training towards the European space 202120230 adopted by the EU Education Ministers in February 2021. This proposed law, which is in the first reading as I have said, contains 31 members and clearly defines the procedures in which the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications can be requested. I'm not talking about these members right now. Maybe later. The purpose of this law is to improve the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with a maximum simplification of procedures and to remove administrative barriers to full international mobility in education and labour mobility, with full application of qualifications frameworks, and in line with European quality assurance principles in the system of education and education. After all, we have been an EU member since 2013 and it is time for us to start acting European too. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the bill's proposal, all with the aim of a simpler and faster resolution of requirements for the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92375	We are now moving to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative and vice president of this house Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, The SDP representative club will support the proposal of the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications. We are aware of the fact that not only in this area of recognition of foreign educational qualifications but also in the recognition of professional qualifications for the purpose of performing regulated professions of the Republic of Croatia, since taking over certain obligations since EU membership, we are facing a number of problems that we are trying to reach. It's not a simple job, it's not easy, but we can take small steps forward. However, what you have stated is that the purpose of this law or the consequences of the legislation that I am about to produce, the objective of amending the legal framework for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications is to improve the policy of recognition of foreign educational qualifications by simplifying procedures and removing administrative barriers to international mobility in education and labour mobility, in line with the European principles for ensuring quality in higher education, where you have also stressed that there has been a lot of uncertainty so far in the competence between the agencies in the education system in charge of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and bodies responsible for regulated professions. What really offends me is that in this public consultation, in fact, the agencies and those who should implement this law tomorrow, and these are primarily the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, the Agency for Education and Education plus these external ones, so let us call it, the factors that are not directly under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science and Education, which are high schools and other educational institutions such as schools, in fact one good part of those agencies, which, to which we pass on certain powers, we want to simplify the procedures, we want to establish what exactly is the responsibility, to remove all the current shortcomings, those in public consultation again, and here I am primarily thinking about the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education demonstrate that we will not actually achieve this goal in this way, so they say in paragraph 8, a well-explanned problem which is necessary to resolve this law, but the articles of the rules of law do not clearly identify the rules of law, because there are not the rules of law and the rules of law which are clearly recognised, and the rules of law which are not the rules of law which are clearly recognised, and the rules of law which are not the rules of law which are clearly recognised. Now, if those of us who need to implement this law tell us that they will not actually be clear who does what they do throughout the system, then we need to see until the second reading whether there is room for these ambiguities to be removed. I understand that before the draft was referred to in the public debate, it may not have communicated with the stakeholders who should be involved in the creation of the law, because we expect them to implement it and it is polite and smart to make it out to them, and not to communicate with them through public consultation, that's the first thing. And what's second, which might be better by the second reading, is this dilemma that the attorney general is referring to, so we have two separate procedures. The first is the process of recognising or evaluating foreign education qualifications, and the second is, this is about access to the labour market, and the second is the process of recognising foreign educational qualifications or a certain period, education for the purpose of continuing education means we have completely two different principles. We have one opinion on the subject of access to the labour market we are going with an opinion that may be brought to the attention of an unsatisfactory applicant, however, and after that, the basis of the Law on Administrative Procedure can be de facto that we are going to appeal again to a solution that extends the whole procedure, we need to see, I know that you will call on the experiences of other countries, but we need to see whether this is the right way and whether in fact in the spirit of the Law on General Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92377	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92378	Here's my colleague, Glasovac, and I'm also really interested in how the resolution agencies and the competent ministry communicate because there's a paradox? So, the agencies make comments the moment they see a law like this in public consultation, and then the ministry like they write a letter to pigeons, accepts these remarks to all of us by letting us know what their communication looks like. Is it impossible in one regulated system for such a debate to take place before public consultation so that we have too many proposals and that there is no waste of time and focus of debate by a large number of not only agencies but also individuals must point to the same systemic failures. I also see this as part of a bigger problem, so you can look back on both this and here we often have legal proposals where I am the HDZ Club, as was, for example, the Rehabilitation Act gives itself 10 amendments to then accept and discuss them, we are wasting time on unquality legislative proposals in parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92379	Thank you. Dear Representative Voter, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92380	Thank you very much. Yeah, I think this needs to be done, and it needs to be avoided. It can always happen in exceptional cases that simply the ministry has some vision that simply does not correspond to the taking over of a certain part of the responsibility and in some way its components or extended hands, which in this case are the resolution agencies, but this should not be a rule and this really looks a little ugly when those who are supposed to implement the law tomorrow, and the law works to make it easier to implement the law themselves through public consultation actually say that they have not been relieved and that nothing is clear to them, it should be avoided. I see that some of the comments from the public consultation above all the University of Rijeka, the University of Zagreb are respected and that is fine, but it would be good to see how to achieve this particular consensus and with those who need to be law enforcement because it is in our interest that after the adoption of this law we no longer have problems and to achieve a key, key goal which I have not now looked back on On that, I was more focused on... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92381	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92382	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have announced in the debate on behalf of the club, I will use this individual debate to point out the problem of recognising the qualifications of our university specialists because, as I have said, the promoter has made it clear to me that this should first be resolved in collective agreements at the level of the state administration, units of the local so that I have now a potential associate who is finally willing to listen to this problem at the Ministry of Science and Education, I will remind myself that it was already the subject of discussion and at the Committee for the Interpreteration of the collective contract, but before I go along with this, it should be said that, in fact, according to the list of postgraduate specialist studies, only at the University of Zagreb admission for these studies has 192 postgraduate specialist studies, and at the level of the Republic of Croatia, more than 270 of such studies is being carried out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The basic collective contract for officials and subsistence in public services is the right to increase the salary of 8% belongs exclusively to workers who have a scientific degree of master of science. I will remind you when this study was abolished and when a new post-graduate study was launched they began to charge the same charge as the price and the science master's fee, so 30 to 60,000 kuna, many of them still pay loans to cover the tuition, and the right to an 8% salary paid by the masters of science do not come true. I don't even claim that a master's degree in science is the same as a postgraduate university specialist study, but then you should tell people when they enroll in those studies. My people won't have the same rights as they used to have masters of science and so you won't be able to achieve all the benefits they had. On the other hand, only the Committee for the Interpreting of the collective agreement reached its conclusion in 2011 in order to be based on Article 52. TKU should recognise an 8% addition to graduate university studies and become university specialists. They also noted that given the proposals and the finding that since 2003 there has been no possibility of obtaining the scientific degree of master of science and given the fact that specialist studies have become the next stage of education after a graduate university study, which our HKO law also testifies to the parties to the collective contract under Article 19(2). The TKU shall submit a proposal for an amendment to the relevant article of the contract. I'm aware that the only obstacle to all this is financial resources. However, I must say that there are, of course, examples of good practice, so in the collective contracts for officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of the Koprivnica-križevci County, basic salaries of officials, the deputy will increase even though the official has a scientific degree in the master’s degree of science which he acquired according to the previous education system, but also an official who obtained the title of university specialist by completing a university specialist study. The same situation is also in the Collective Contract for employees of the Preschool Institutions of the City of Zagreb as is the same situation for those who are employed in the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and the same applies in the Collective Contract for Officials and Paids in the City's administrative bodies of the City of Zagreb. Well, here I call on you state secretaries as you yourself told me today in the explanation and response to my reply that you should first start from collective contracts of state and public servants to initiate this procedure that took place in 2011 and then the representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education, and that at last thousands and thousands of these people who are truly desperate and I repeat some of them have enrolled in good faith this study, hoping they will have certain benefits from it, have studied, have worked hard, have set out their private time, business time, and some of them, which is important to say, are still paying for scholarship loans. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92383	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92384	Here's really when we're at the recognition of the country's qualifications I'll agree with you that we have a serious problem. For some time now, a case of qualification as a master of medical laboratory diagnostics has also been passed, which is something that has not been systematically resolved long ago, and which is why numerous magistrates complain. It is not recognised, in the context of the regulation of the profession, that the continuation of education through a graduate study, resulting in the profession of the master of medical laboratory diagnostics in Croatia cannot be classified under the definition of a regulated profession according to the directive, nor the notion of an unregulated profession, which actually means that we have not properly implemented the directive and which has made it impossible for those who have studied this access to the labour market despite the legal gains of the EU. And it's amazing that this problem hasn't actually been solved for years, so here's what I wanted to add to what you said and that case. in the hope that someone will finally get rid of him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92385	Dear Representative Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92386	That's right, you said well respected MPs, it's not one of those study programs, it's really on the pitch, but look when you go into establishing a new study programme you have different bodies in the system that when it comes to regulated professions in the first place you go to compliance with a network of public higher schools, to the Agency for Science and Higher Education. It gives you confirmation whether you are in line or not, and then you have, if it's about regulated professions and working group of the Ministry of Science and Education who has to carry out the evaluation, and on that basis and international reviews of the issue or not issuing a license, but it's not the end of the story, then after which they issue a pass, I will refer to my colleague Bačić as mentioned today, then we come up with that famous list of academic names and shortcuts issued by the rector's assembly and you actually don't even check what's being published.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92387	Thank you. Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92388	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, when it comes to the recognition of foreign diplomas and the quality of knowledge as you comment on the following fact, it is now less important for the University of Split, so when we have the same student, the same professor, different city, different university and different states, but also different grades. So, at the University of Split, the student cannot pass the exam, at the indirect suggestion of the professor to move to BiH to the University of Mostar where the same exam works and goes down without any problems the same one who in Split when the devil couldn't pass it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92389	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92390	I'm glad you brought this up, this one, so I'm actually sorry that there are really valuable, capable and honest people at the University of Mostar and that their work is diminished, but on the other hand, while our universities fail as far as spatial and humane conditions are concerned, the conditions of the equipment they have, we give millions and hospitals in Mostar and the University of Mostar. I wouldn't mind, I repeat, if we had the first situation in Croatia, but it's not, it's far from arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92391	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92392	Fellow Radolović you are right, it is far too far that the situation in Croatia is arranged. For example at your university, the Faculty of Medicine in Pula is where you chose the dean you replaced after a year. That's a real example. As far as the University of Mostar is concerned, if that's what you're thinking, it's a great medical college unlike the one in Pula that's missing God isn't college yet. A colleague here has opened another term, which is the foundation of collective agreements, really very valuable. As far as specialization is concerned, it's 4-5 doctors. We've been synchronising our special training process, before we had specialists, before... The interns, and then the subspecies, and now all we have is the subspecies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is that the collective contract doesn't differ in the pay of the subspecies as it is today... I would really ask the secretary of state once you've already opened this very important topic from your university to join with medical chemists and, of course, our subspecies is that they finally correct that long-term, I would say no to injustice but simply a set of circumstances because they didn't exist before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92393	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92394	I thank you for this valuable comment, or two comments. I absolutely agree with you that we need to resolve the subject of a subspecies contract. I am also pleased to inform you that the Faculty of Medicine is registered in Pula, that obtaining the consent of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development in the finality itself and that there are actually 3 even fewer failures that we will believe in the next month will be removed and that, given the lack of doctors we have, and this will be 2000 doctors and 4,500 nurses and technicians, this registration quota of 30 students planning to enrol the University of Pula will not worry about harming the University of Zagreb. We are very glad that we were supported by the University of Split when the other universities didn't do it, I would really say a ridiculous concern that we would take away some of their financial cake, and I believe you think you and I agree that all of the citizens of the Republic of Istria have equal levels of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92395	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92396	Dear fellow Radolović, you have touched the discrimination of students of postgraduate specialist studies in terms of the achievement of certain salaries or supplements that are not uniform and do not actually follow what students of graduate university studies enjoy. However, this is not just the case in postgraduate, we have had a situation where the state has issued and issued allowances for certain programmes and undergraduate vocational studies and undergraduate and postgraduate, nice universities, high universities charge and enrolment, people end up and then after that state challenges the same value through its laws, or discriminates on acquired qualifications, does not want to recognise them a certain level. So isn't that some kind of organized deception, not to say some more difficult word and one click where, in fact, he likes to bring higher education just to the source of income and money, not to take care of quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92397	Thank you. Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92398	I absolutely agree with you respected MPs and therefore I am glad to announce that they came from State Secretary Šushko to go into the whole package of legislative changes and the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, but also according to him and the Law on Quality throughout the entire system of higher education because it is really necessary to change all this together, so you have a contradictory situation. I repeat, there are several levels, you have at the very high schools an internal quality assurance unit means the main Quality Committee, the Office of Quality and the Senate which confirms the study programme's elaborate, then all this goes to the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and if it is or is not about regulated professions, it comes to the Ministry for issuing a licence and then it goes to the Rector's Assembly. I don't think there's any good communication and coordination between all these bodies, or you don't know who's drinking, and who's paying, but here's the announcement from the secretary of state that you're going to deal with all these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92399	Now will speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92400	Yes, we will probably welcome these amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education. Of course, there remains an open question of why we wait so long for them, and the answer is clear and very prosaic. So it's waiting to change some structures so there's no chance of resistance, and then it's going to start with the capital project of Minister Fuchs and the amendment of the Law on Science and Higher Education. Since I protested 10 years ago against his proposed changes and not only me but also rejected most of the academic community and did not finally pass, I suspect that these future changes will look like and we will talk about them when they come to the agenda, but if necessary there will be resistance especially when we talk about university autonomy. And why did I start with this? Because it's bound to this legal framework. In fact, it should be borne in mind that Minister Fuchs is the minister of dangerous intentions. I'm not just saying this as a floscule, I'm going to explain it. We had previous amendments to the laws relating to the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education where the same centre was placed under the hands of the ministry which was not the case before. After that, you have amendments to the Law relating to the Croatian Foundation for Science, a key institution that finances scientific projects, and it is also placed under the authority of parliament as it was once under the responsibility of the ministry. And so quietly, mic by mic along with some laws that are a media less attractive minister gathers all key institutions and implements one form of centralization of the system and putting under the direct jurisdiction of the policy of independent institutions in science and higher education which should by no means be the case. So now that I say Minister of Dangerous Purpose, you understand what his intentions are. And now given the above, we have here an article concerning, in particular, Article 15, where it is said that the Minister in charge of education affairs, with the previous opinion of the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, adopts a regulation governing the criteria of recognition and evaluation for the purpose of continuing education at the higher level referred to in Articles 13 and 14 of this Law. What exactly does the Rector's Choir's opinion mean? Whether it's an opinion and consent, whether it's consent or a rector's choir writes to you what he thinks about it, and you bring whatever you want and you get their opinion. And whose job is that supposed to be? Given what the minister had previously done, it is not a matter of what Article 15 of this Law applies and should be precisely unambiguously defined. I'll always stand for university autonomy. Why? Because no matter who is at the head of the university and as much as we once did not like its individual leaders, they are transient, but the university as an autonomous institution must remain because there must be an independent intelligence that will be able to be independent of the policy that the minister is part of criticising that same policy when it is the right moment. If all falls under one minister and a single political option that is then in power then we lose the possibility of an independent critical opinion that should occur within the university. Therefore, we should not think about concrete leaders but about what goals we want to achieve and how we want institutions to function within the system of science and education. The second question refers to what I was talking about, and that is also an asylumist. Therefore, we see that, contrary to Articles 20 and 21 of Article 20, Article 20 refers to the fact that asylum seekers can be refused if they are not subject to the necessary documentation. And Article 21 speaks of it if they are unable to provide qualifications that will then produce this information form that will bring data on the profile, level and assessment of the scope of qualifications whatever these terms individually mean. And Article 14. again, we do not know if high schools can carry out this check of foreign qualifications, and at the same time they can and do it by the competent agencies again we do not know who will eventually do what and who students can talk, they need to talk. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92401	We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first is the respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92402	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so I didn't mean medicine or at all matter now, nor do I take myself as a right to be a person who will evaluate someone's work or someone's dislike, and neither does the quality of the university. But what I want to draw attention to is if, in the context of the foreign recognition speech, if the quality of knowledge measure is how you comment, I'm going to repeat the fact again, the fact of the same student, the same professor, the same state, the same university, the negative assessment. The same professor, same student, different state, different university, positive grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92403	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92404	Such things should certainly be explored individually, although even in addition to the moral responsibility that we have seen in particular lately that it is not worth much in politics, I am not sure that there can be any concrete sanctions because the same teacher can always say that the student has different approaches to the exam and learned for the exam in one or another country, so he can get away so easily. So, aside from some moral sanctions, I'm not sure we can prevent this from happening in practice, but by raising awareness of the problem, maybe someone's going to pay a little attention because there's a lot of living in the university and out of their reputation, so they're going to stop doing that. I was also familiar with the case if I wasn't wrong about defecology where students were recommended to go to Mostar for the additional qualifications they needed to work as defecologists at school with children, and they didn't need qualifications on one qualification to eventually turn out that when they paid it abroad, they wouldn't be recognized in Croatia and there's a lot of stuff going on. It happens in these cross-border crossings around higher education. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92405	The next is a replica of the respected representative Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92406	Thank you. You have just mentioned this Article 15 and the adoption of a regulation with the previous opinion of the Rules of Procedure. I must admit that I am also quite confused because it says in the law's assessment that these amendments to the law are being passed precisely in order to abolish this double procedure in the sense that universities are implementing themselves and that the Agency for Science and Higher Education values these foreign qualifications, but then again stands in art. Article 13 14 that the recognition of foreign educational qualifications will again be submitted in the context of a descriptive procedure for the follow-up of higher-level education, the submission of applications to the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and in Article 14 14 It says that for the purpose of enrolment in graduate and postgraduate studies in foreign languages, a higher school can also conduct the procedure on its own. It's quite confusing to me, so please comment. And then it goes on, that in art. 15 The Minister will, in the previous opinion of the Rectors' Assembly, adopt a regulation that actually regulates all these criteria, and those of the Art. 15. 13 and those of Art. 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92407	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92408	I'll agree with you, as I've made it clear myself. I mean, if you put on a student or a former student again, he won't know who to talk to, if you're willing to do it at the university or do it by the competent Agency for Science and Higher Education. I must also say that perhaps because of excessive caution, but given what I have said with previous legal amendments relating to the NCVVO and also to the Croatian Science Foundation, when I see the Minister, and then only the opinion of the Rector's Congress and given that he refused to make this public consultation of the motion of the Rector's Congress on that same regulation, we must ask whether this is another quiet march on regulations, institutions, etc., where the system will be as centralized as possible by one person who should decide on everything and disable independence or autonomy, whether there are higher education institutions, or universities, either. the agency and other institutions. [[Thank you. Dear representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92409	... Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92410	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Selak Rasdic. I will continue through my question or replica to you on the subject of the rulebook of Art. 15. So sometimes it's something of a modernity, but sometimes something crosses the boundaries of modernism and turns into something that doesn't need to be. We too, really too often in this assembly meet with legal proposals that do not define the story to the end but leave it to the rules. The regulations are passed by the Ministry in a certain way and you do not have the opportunity to see the whole picture or see only part of the picture. That's the way it is in this law. This Regulation therefore regulates recognition and evaluation criteria for the purpose of continuing education. The basic criteria should be laid down by law, and the rule only then elaborates some methodology and some conditions, but the criteria should be within the law. So the way we evaluate, same in law, and all this, that, that The way of actually bypassing Parliament. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Selak Rasdudić./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92411	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92412	I agree with you, this is a common case, you know how much we talked about the programme of measures when we had on the agenda of the Renovation Act, so it was finally seen that the programme of measures actually stalled the renewal because the figures that were listed there were inconclusive in practice, given that the work was undervalued, so the bids went down, we didn't even get the offers, and we still have what we have, or we don't have anything when we talk about the renewal. Yeah, neither am I, and I'm coming from a higher education system, and I'm coming from a clear set of criteria or the way things should go, and I'm going to say something out of practice. My students who go to spend a semester or more abroad to whom art applies. 21, if I'm not mistaken, someone who's spent a part of his time abroad, I mean, it stays at our best, we give them such discounts and let them just go through the system without teaching or anything, and we admit everything and everything so they don't lose the right to study, and that anything is arranged, nothing ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92413	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92414	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you mentioned the upcoming Law on Science and Higher Education, you did not mention the other Quality Insurance Act, but you said we were waiting, I'll see you here and we'll talk about autonomy. My question to you is what this autonomy is for you, do you agree with the definition of UNESCO in '96? Mr. who says something about freedoms and institutional and all employees of the university, I will translate it or think that under autonomy can be understood today's conflict with law and law, non-response of the founder in terms of spending taxpayers' money without anyone having the right to ask you where it is, lawlessness, dealing with journalists, students, shagging teachers, or for us autonomy has taken some other forms where we are covering ourselves in the constitutional category, and we are in fact violating those fundamental rights, which is work for public good. and along with the state of creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Among other things, participation in human potential, creation and information. [[/Intruder: Honored representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92415	Autonomy is neither an excuse for breaking the law nor for non-compliance with the law. Therefore, all these things that you have stated should be subject to, any criticism of the public, any legal sanctions and thus the supervision of the activities of any public institution, including universities, should be carried out. However, what I fear is happening to us, and what we should never fall for is that because of the opinion of individual university leaders, we are ready for dissatisfaction or satisfaction with their work, how to sacrifice the whole principle of autonomy for whom, because let's look at what our alternative is, when we talk about autonomy. The alternative is what happens to the other institutions now and what the minister wants, and now he's going to propose, believe me, in the new Law on Science and Higher Education, to submit everything to the ministry, and where are we? University of Politics, University of University [[Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić.]] from politics? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92416	Intruder: Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić./... University of Politics, University.../ Intruder: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92417	You said a great line. The university is permanent, and we are transient. The university is basically like a last name. Last names are permanent and all of us who do public work, if we appreciate our ancestors and... We keep our last name, we're not on the blacklists, we don't steal, we don't take fees in the Parliament that we don't deserve because we appreciate our last name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We appreciate the university, but I have to be honest that you weren't so sharp, a few of you were saying before that that I didn't understand why you might be, perhaps not, that agencies must be the executive bodies of the ministry? The agencies, let out what it says for the agencies, the agencies can be autonomous, so the HALMED agency, you don't think the Ministry of Health will dictate which medicine is to be made or not. You don't think Minister Fuchs is going to say what needs to be solved by the Science and Education Agency. This simply simply should be left behind and therefore this public debate is good, otherwise these are totalitarian regimes of the totalitarian party that says we should agree write and we'll sort things out [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Nonsense. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92418	Dear Representative Voter has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92419	And in art. 238, we MPs some feel a little bit so offended, so I'll say it when we see that MPs are banging this kind of nonsense without even reading the law because it's seen from this one. It's just that... [[Intruder: Fellow Voter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92420	Now you're saying first, inappropriately that are.../incomprehensible... nonsense, is it. [[Well, here's what I just wanted to say.]] But of course, it's not And of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. [[Intruder: Well no, but the minimum is to read the law discussed.]] They will respond to the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92421	... Yeah, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Anyway, maybe it's easier for you, Mr. Ostojic, I have two last names to worry about, not just one, so there's a double burden on me to worry about integrity. As for what you said, I think there are two levels, so the agencies as such are the executive bodies of the ministry, so there is one system within which both the agencies and the NGOs and all these other institutions that I have listed have their place. However, just because it is an executive body of the ministry does not mean that in all its ways it is subject to the same ministry and that it must be controlled or, for example, by the same ministry. In the event that we had a speech about the NGO, the ministry would assume the right and role of the founder. In many of these institutions, the Assembly is the one who controls, controls, and even selects the persons who will be within these institutions, so we need to fight here for our role.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92422	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Rajko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92423	Vice President, my colleague Rasudic, Professor Rasudiæ Selak, you've made this very clear. I'm quoting the executive bodies, but not the extended bodies, I'm quoting the representatives of one. Not those who will execute. Why are you afraid of that? Why are you afraid that we have different opinions in the debate? So Anka's my dear friend, Anka, you don't have to write everything in the law. In fact, you'd better write in the rule book. Until we change the laws in Parliament, never end. And the rules change quickly because knowledge is changing at an incredible rate. The laws are rigid, mastodons, dinosaurs, they die quickly, and the minister's rules change in 2 days, 7 days. That's why good laws, good constitutions like the U.S. don't change for 200 years, so the law on judges is '99. wrote in 10 articles because it's simple, if we're going to write laws, then we'll go back to socialism and the law on... He was this big. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's read it, not even Stipe Shuvar. Knowledge is the key to everything. The Ministry of Science, Foreign Qualifications or Foreign Qualifications, appreciates a number of problems we simply need to open up. That's what we were talking about today and at first point, is it simply, for example, the nurses, while I was the minister of strike, shouting, shouting, shouting, who ended up in Bihac, Banja Luka, Maja Grba knows, Kragujevac, so they didn't see patients looking for qualifications. Well, that's not how it works, God's people. That's not how it works. He must have knowledge, experience, skills, and if he's on the team, those three places where the states become great colleges, but that's why we have to keep our citizens in all other things. So the key is knowledge and skills, the curricula, the number of searches, the number of checks, all of these secretary of state that you have to put in the rulebook, not in the law, it's not for the law, it's for the rule, because it's simply a dynamic process. I was talking about 4K today, competence, competition, quality and competence. No one, everyone as smart as anyone who's sure of themselves, and I'm terribly sure of myself, and I'm not afraid of my knowledge of competition. But those who founded and put the Dean of the Medical Faculty in Pula the dean who is an anti-vaxer, who is an anti-scientist, who spoke, quote, should immediately remove all vaccines, should say, that we were wrong, for God's sake, is that hard. We made a mistake. The vaccine, the vaccine, which saved millions and hundreds of thousands of lives, more than any medical intervention, and that tells you the Dean of the Medical Faculty, and now these nonsense, the University of Zagreb is afraid of someone, for God's sake, please, I'm not rector of the Dean himself, it's simply a fact, respected colleague Radolović, I don't know why you found yourself called for it. Actually, I know, but that was between us. Tom, we made a mistake and we're moving on, not our fellow professor.../incomprehensible/... Anta Kujundzic, we got the story of Mostar or some other college. So what's terribly important, what we need to discuss is quality. The quality of work, the quality of knowledge, the quality of scientific works, there are eternal docents at Zagreb University that work one work every two years. Do you know how much this doctor or assistant costs Croatia? A couple hundred thousand kuna, a million, two kunas. We pay him, and the man doesn't do anything, or the woman, irrelevant. There isn't. It doesn't produce, and we expect it to come first at last in knowledge and quality. So, as I was saying about an hour ago, two times ago, everything has its own life course and this microphone and this table and this Jana, everything will die except for the university, except for the last name and other knowledge. Let's use our knowledge. The more we use it, the faster it reproduces, the faster it divides. Knowledge is a quality, and that's why I'm really pleased to hear all of this, especially Mrs. Professor. Selak Rasdic, who made it clear to us that the agencies are implementing bodies but are not like the totalitarian regimes and totalitarian parties, part of which the rector or God forbids the president of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92424	We have several replicas, respected representative Selak Rasudić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92425	Dear colleague Ostojić, I am interested in how you see within your own profession, given that we have already raised this issue, given these legal changes in the relationship between different institutions. Let's say, for example, in the management of this crisis. On the one hand, we had a resolute health minister, then we had HZJZ, and no one really knows who to listen to and who to listen to, and then the Minister of the Interior who turned out to be above and above. What should an ideal relationship within these institutions look like, and what institution should be key in managing this crisis? And let's say HZJZ's recommendations were very often talked about not taking into account the civil protection headquarters when Covid's decisions were issued and various other documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92426	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92427	... The crisis you're talking about is war, and there's only one person in this war who's responsible. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, the head of headquarters was supposed to be the health minister, to implement and make decisions, no one else. And that's why headquarters had sympathy in the beginning, and today you can see mistakes. Messages are bad, contradictory, paradoxical, changing from today to tomorrow, sorry from morning to night, and that's unfortunately so. That's why the headquarters is absolutely the kind that hasn't fulfilled its role. We see that in two things. First on the incidence and prevalence of mortality, the first, second, third states of 200 UN states. First, we have the worst mortality and the second no less important seventh, eighth, ninth after vaccination. That's their score. Bad, disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92428	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92429	Thank you. Dear colleague Ostojić, I appreciate you as a doctor and I respect you but my respect for you stops. If you are going to use this pay phone to deal with the SDP, go to the HDZ to welcome such an expert with open arms and therefore face the SDP. I would like to ask you to speak out loud and clear to all the Croatian public, people in Pula and Istria whether you are personally against the study of medicine in Pula and Istria County, or just because you are courting HDZ, the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, the University of Zagreb, because you want to go to HAZU class. Well, I'm good at speaking HAZU's class of medics, or you're just shaking your chair. [[/Intruder: HAZU?]] on Rebr, so do you do all this, but I would like to ask you a clear and loud answer, are you against the study of medicine in Pula and Istria County? [[I didn't know that.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92430	Your colleagues Radolović are being warned in accordance with Article 232 because you spoke out of the question, that is 3 reminders to you, so I am taking your word from you until the end of the debate on this topic. And my colleague Ostojić, I don't think there's anything to answer for. Because there was nothing on the subject. [[I'd just...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92431	No, no, I would just answer if I could make a joke, if I could answer on behalf of the HDZ, no, that's not what the Voice said, not me, no. So, something called the subcortical level, that's what my colleague Voter said, that's what she's saying on behalf of the HDZ Club, right, not me... But I understand you. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, you don't understand. So, colleagues Radolović General Hospital Pula will thank me all the mayors, all the mayors of Pula, so unfortunately my credit is highly likely large, large, large. My first assistant, a student, a doctor runs a great general hospital in Pula. Well, I was telling you a few years ago, you don't have a bar when you called me personally, I won't join you, when you told me the team, I showed you what's going to happen to you, and that's why you chose Dean Antivaxer,.../incomprehensible/... chose the Dean, we said it openly, but when you pull me by the tongue, openly, in front of the witnesses without me, bad, bad and bad. You run a university for IRI research, development, innovation, and now I'm gonna stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92432	A colleague, Krstulović Opara, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92433	Dear Mr. Chairman, I withdraw my breach of the Rules of Procedure because you have activated Article 232. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92434	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, you mention 4K Because you can do the quality, creation, etc., so how do you think these 4Ks in this country can handle the 3K that I often mention, which is corruption, clientelism and crime. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Whatever topic we're talking about, whatever topic we're going to open, you can name countless Ks and positive intensities here behind this pay phone in this assembly room, but they always stand up to these 3Ks that we don't know each other and we can't deal with. Corruption, clientism and crime. That's what rules this country. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92436	Now, just a minute, just an hour, fellow Škoro and you get a reminder according to Article 232, I'm asking you nicely we have, we have a point that's called if you forgot, you're late in the middle of a point so you don't know what we're talking about, it's called the Proposal for a Law on Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications. So what you're saying has nothing to do with it. Just a minute. [[/Intruder: Oh, I'm just short.]] My colleague Škoro has re-injured the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92437	At 238 because I'm going to call her. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, we can take a look at the video of today's session. I've been here since this morning. So, I'm asking you nicely if you're here late, doesn't mean we're all here. I've been here and we can check the invoice very easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92438	Great! But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm telling you No, no, I gave you a warning because, in accordance with Article 232, I made that clear to you completely out of the question. [[No, you didn't hurt because you gave me a warning, don't do that.]] And now you get a warning because of course it has nothing to do with the subject. [[No, sir.../]] I'm asking you nicely let's stop this stuff. Please! Look, it's late. If you want to debate seriously and it seems to me to be a serious issue, then this shooting with the pseudo injuries of the Rules of Procedure is completely deplaced at least for me. But we can, as far as I'm concerned, we can stay until the morning and play so I don't say what here is embarrassing all of us. Okay. Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92439	Just for a little while. I spoke to my colleague Škoro at 13.20 today in four positive ones and four negative ones. It wasn't Sandra, took her fourth to conservatism in a bad sense of the word she put on the air the other day. So crime, clientelism, corruption and conservativeism in a negative sense are kind of let's say four negatives. So four positive to something that's been in sociology for 50 years, as there's parret's rule 20, 80. 20% of the singers around the world make 80% of the hits, 20% of the surgeons think of you, 20% of the surgeons operate on 80% of the most difficult patients, 20% of the writers write 80% of the most beautiful works, the best works, the best literature. I mentioned just before Ostapa Bender, who, you know, is the leftover Bender that thug. He took himself, he took gas, he took everything, and the state paid for it, and that's it. I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92440	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92441	Thank you very much. I'll try to be on the subject, Vice President. So, when we talk about the process of recognising a diploma, he's been very complicated so far, he's lasted a long time, he's often been expensive. I believe that as a person with contacts with the academic world, it is very well known, so it is commendable that we are working to simulate and speed up this process. However, when we talk about the EU, there are clear, more or less. Now you have that extra degree, we're less harmonised by the Bologna process, so it's not that hard. However, when we talk about countries outside the EU, there is a problem, i.e. this bill says it is 60 days to recognise a diploma if access to the labour market. 60 days is a lot if we talk about access to the labour market and maybe 45 if 30 is not too little already, there is a compromise solution that would give us the real effects we wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92442	Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92443	I fully support colleague Hajdukovic for what you said, so it should speed it up for both this point and the first point. I'm sorry that he's the minister in charge, it goes in two readings. It was supposed to go into an emergency procedure. Professional education, the foundation of education. 50% of children who today, or who entered school in September when they finish their education in 16, 20 or 21 years or 22 years will be out of business today. There won't be any! They don't exist! Remember at your age what's gone. Fax machines and stuff, done. There is no one who has made the world easier for us. Video recorders and stuff, what were those blues called, etc. Those little CDs. It's just that knowledge is explosive, and that's why both this and the first law were supposed to go in a hurry reading, a rush procedure, we're late.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92444	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92445	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ostojić, I would still go back to that topic of yours and this topic that was when I referred to the provision of Article 15. So we, as Parliamentarians, can agree to the option of laws being passed and that all laws have approximately three or four articles. The first article is passed by law, the second article will introduce all the elements set out in the European Directive, the third article will all be prescribed by the Minister by regulation and regulation and the fourth article shall enter into force. What I'm absolutely sure of and what I'm going to stand for, so this law has two regulations. And the rules are needed in the part where they work things out. And I agree with you that they are more operational, faster, simpler, simpler in making. But the basic elements that are defined by these rules must be defined by this law, and then by the Regulation you're working it out further. Our experience teaches that we already have a series of laws, that this government has decided not to define itself in law for far too many more important things, but to let the regulations and against that we must speak and we must stand up. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92446	Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92447	That's right. In my life, I am satisfied with some things, for example, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination that I prepared when I was in opposition and released it a month after the government was founded. Anka and I were together when Gunja happened, together. There we organized everything – sanitary, saving people, cattle, etc. If we'd done anka law, we did it faster. We did, but if we'd done it the way the HDZ law does, there'd never be a Gunja. You must be proud of Gunjo. I'm proud of what you did in Gunya. That's what I'm talking about. Let's not do mastodon laws, be practical, be simple and leave room not for machinations, not God, but simply to be more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92448	In the name of, now will be the final speech. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the honourable representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92449	Thank you. So, there are these rare but beautiful moments when I open up a bill and I see that something we talked about and fought about 10, 15 years ago even in this case is really legal today, i.e. it becomes part of the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, and then you're a little happy somewhere, but you always have this little regret that it took so long for certain obvious things to be recognized. Thus, in this proposal and with the provisions on the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of accessing the labour market and continuing education, which is very important at the same or higher level of education for asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of the family of asylum seekers or foreigners under subsidiary protection. When we worked at the centre for peace studies the first integration manual for asylum seekers and foreigners in Croatia in 2006, it seemed to me that this was one of the key points. And we have repeatedly proposed and proposed that a system be created to recognise the qualifications of people who come to Croatia as refugees and who, of course, are granted that refugee status. Not only is this a question of their rights, because it is in the first place, but it is also a question of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, that people who come to live in Croatia live here, have the opportunity to educate and participate in the labour market according to their qualifications. Especially in Croatia where we miss people on the labour market and where we miss some qualifications. So it was finally realized that this question had to be regulated. And what's a particularly sensitive issue with refugees when they come is the question of evidence of qualifications they've acquired because very often they don't have that evidence, especially if you're running from a war-threatening area. And what is good is that there is a process of recognising these qualifications here and when these documents are not available and that the competent authority cannot refuse to recognise the qualification only on the grounds that these documents are not available. So, there will be a process of establishing actually a qualification at which some degree is actually going to have to exist and this is not being developed here, and I hope that these implementing instruments will work out, which is how these qualifications are defined, the standardisation of tests, but the particular issue of translation aid in actually such testing, because many who come naturally do not know the Croatian language, and then there is also a question that we have been looking for for for years, which unsuspectingly low money in Croatia is given out of the state budget, which is an approach to learning Croatian language for foreigners and asylum seekers and persons and asylum seekers and persons under subsidiarity protection. What they would add here as a proposal is that these are also prescribed that persons who have this kind of international protection that, in cases where they do not have employment, do not have the income to free them from paying the fees needed to enter this process because ultimately, it is very often about persons who do not have any income. I can tell you that in my former work I have often met with very young, very young people who have received protection and have come from Syria and have actually had very good qualifications and had no evidence for them, I sincerely hope that these will actually receive this recognition and that they will normally be able to participate in the labour market. I recently met a boy who spoke Croatian so well in the meantime that a colleague asked me himself if he was Zagorec because he had an accent as a little, but he's actually a man from Syria. What I want to point out is that third-country nationals have been forced to accept uncertain forms of work so far, short-term contracts, undeclared work and hard physical work, which has often not been adequately paid. This is not worth it to anyone because we do not really want labour standards and protection to be reduced in this way, to protect labour dignity. For this reason, I'm rarely in that position, but I can finally commend this move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92450	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Andro Krstulović Opar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92451	... Secretary, after a long day and quality debates here we are approaching and finalising the debate on this point. [[Specially enabled.]] It is clear that the goal we want to achieve by adopting this law is primarily aimed at simplifying procedures and removing all administrative obstacles which, to those who wish to achieve their intention of including the first thing in education and then to the labour market in the EU member of the EU. We can also see today that tens of thousands of young people from South America from Croatia want to come to Croatia and, of course, have a problem with so-called. Nostrations of diplomas as well as language. This law will help them too. This is what I'm going to say right at the beginning it wasn't drawn today very clearly this is one part of the job that can go towards the demographic restoration of our country. Mobility and easier international recognition of our universities, higher education institutions and secondary schools are also achieved by this law. Congratulations to all those who have participated in this, I know that the need to comply with the European Qualifications Framework is extremely necessary and necessary to create the competence that we have talked about many times today, but it is certainly the right time to make such a decision. He would also consider the respect of his colleague and colleagues for today's debate. It was a pleasure to be here all day, we started this morning with Ukraine on our board, and then on the Committee on Culture, and we're really finishing up on a quality academic, quality academic debate. That's what this law deserves. Despite the fact that there may have been several dichhotomous tones, some reasonings we can, Mr. Chairman, and I believe that everyone present here would argue that there is a broad degree of agreement between all clubs and party representatives for the need to pass such a law. And I am sure that the contributions of today's debates will contribute to you the creators of this law to make it as good as possible and as soon as possible. Also allow me, I have one hobby to believe it and you do, I read the comments on public counseling. Public consultation in this law has shown the exceptional interest of a number of people from all over Croatia and it was phenomenal to see the openness of the lawmakers who accepted most of these remarks. I congratulate you Mr. Šushak on that, because it also speaks of transparency, openness and willingness to make this law even better. The academic community certainly on behalf of some of you respected colleagues and colleagues spoke on behalf of the academic community. They certainly support the adoption of such a law and the acceleration of the process in both the labour market and education. And let it end because I don't have much time for another remark, or finding that wasn't the case today. I have already said that this is quite certain to be used as one of the tools in the necessary demographic defence measures, the demographic defense of our country should say that this law makes it easier to return to the home of many family members, people who have left Croatia for the past 10, 15 years and who are related to countries where they live and work because they have children in schools and universities in foreign countries. This is certainly with the measures the government has taken to help bring back numerous Croatian families. Also numerous children of our emigrants from the second, third generation who want to come live in the Republic of Croatia. I think this law is necessary. Congratulations to everyone who participated in his work. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have made constructive proposals to our performers to prepare them for us and I look forward to adopting them. I'm sure this is one of those nice times to be a parliamentary representative when you see you're working on something that most people here agree on. Thank you for your attention and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92452	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most will finally speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak-Raspudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92453	Here I am much more real than my colleague Opara. I must say, I do not fantasize about this return that will be made possible by these legal changes. I am previously focused on stopping leaving the Republic of Croatia, because this is what we are currently at a greater threat, and to resolve this, we could also deal with what we were also talking about today in a parliamentary debate, which is at all recognition of foreign qualifications, and then of course these foreign qualifications. The fact that we all agree on the need to simplify and speed up the process of recognising foreign qualifications does not mean that we agree on the way it will be done. And in this sense, different, I consider constructive remarks on how to improve this legal framework, particularly the relationship between Articles 13, 14 and 15, which I have spoken about myself. If we really want to edit the system, then we need to know clearly who will be recognising foreign qualifications, not that it can be either this or that, so they can switch between themselves. This is all that makes it difficult for those who are interested in it and introduces uncertainty and uncertainty in self-recognition of foreign qualifications. Also, when we talk about asylum seekers, I don't share the optimism of my colleague Bencic. The fact that asylum seekers are mentioned within the legal framework does not mean that the recognition of their qualifications is regulated in a concrete way. I have already talked here about the non-compliance of the fact that on the one hand there is a group that has no evidence of its qualifications, on the other hand it is said in Article 20 that they can be refused exactly if they have no evidence of these same qualifications, and then further reference in the procedure by issuing an information form without making it clear on what criteria this form will be issued and that it will contain in itself any projections of any qualifications. So, aside from this mention, I don't see that within this legal framework, this status is more detailed in any way. What we are not familiar with, and we should be familiar with when we propose such legal changes except by calling on the Lisbon Convention, we have no idea what the situation is in Croatia, how much interest it has in such a type of recognition of qualifications, where it comes from, and why we need such legal changes, or what their expected effect will be. It seems that it is too much to ask under any law and thus these legal changes, and in order to have too much parliamentary debate, we could really do a little bit of work on the very introductory description of the law that is adopted and the objectives for which it is adopted as well as the justifications, the expected effects in practice, to see if this legislative change has received the effect it is being made. And in conclusion, I'm just going to look back at the reality of what I'm witnessing myself in an educational institution where I work. In addition to the fact that our students have now begun to go to foreign universities and spend the semesters where we have not seriously developed a system of recognition of these same qualifications of time spent on these universities, equivalent exams and anything like that. Everything rests on the enthusiasm of teachers, and first of all, that enthusiasm I have to say, unfortunately, a tour of you going out to a student who went abroad for a semester or two as much as possible to meet by saying ok. Unlike all other students, you don't have to be in class, you don't have to do this, you don't have to make up for it, because he's not able to get parallel points, so we're all pretending to walk in practice, and we're actually going to ignore the holes that are going to happen because we haven't developed a system that would recognise our qualifications and our education in relation to the parallel education systems that are being studied at other universities in Europe. So the practice is there to close our eyes, and we did not create a system in which that time can be recognized and compensated in the Republic and that is something that needs to change first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92454	Thank you very much, and now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Education, Ivica Šušak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92455	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, I will try to circle in the time frame answers and reactions to everything that has been said. I have to say, I'm happy with the debate, too. This, however, was one academic level worthy of this high home in terms of the subject and the proposed legal framework. However, I would like to start from the end of the recent presentation of the distinguished representative Maria Selak Rasudić when she mentioned the problems of internationalisation at her high school, which is called the University of Zagreb, and the component of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and in view of previous exhibitions in terms of university autonomy. So what's said now is really the subject of university autonomy and no one outside the university of professors, rectors, proctors, deans, produced, college councils and senates can and should not decide how to recognise periods of study conducted abroad other than the university itself. It is interesting for me, given my several proposals and explanations or defending the bill, I have now seen the practice of using information from e-consultations and comments, commenting on the objections of individual stakeholders of the Republic of Croatia and all those who have the right to access e-consultation in accordance with the Code of Relations with the interested public and the Law on the right to access information. And that's great. And that's democracy. And everyone has the right to comment, criticise, propose, etc. However, I believe that you, as well as the honourable representatives and MPs in this high home, are familiar with the legislative procedure in the Republic of Croatia, so that the text of the bill you received on the benches in front of you does not correspond to the content of the legal text that was on the e-consultation. So the authorized draft lawmaker who came to the government as the holder of the executive power until he arrived in this high house survived and experienced permanent changes and additions. Now, given that part of the legislative process or the relationship with the interested public, you have asked the question of the resolution agencies as bodies or bodies as it was known in the former system, and there has been Marxism as a philosophy of the world, the Agency for Science and Higher Education is an independent public institution that controls quality in science and higher education. The Ministry of Science and Education as a body of the state administration responsible for science and education has no direct or indirect influence on the work of the Agency. There were also objections to the public consultation, and it is good that they were and we welcome them. Of course, the agency has also experienced some staff changes over the past few months, and it is obvious that the agency’s views have also taken place according to draft laws. The Ministry of Science and Education formed a working group in which the representatives of all the agencies mentioned in the previous debate and representatives of the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia as the supreme coronation body of the autonomy of Croatian public universities, unfortunately not private discrimination, and this rectoral assembly appointed Prof. Dr. Nikola Djakovic, president of the Committee for the Recognition of the University of Zagreb diploma as a representative of the rectorial assembly. And Prof. Nikola Djakovic regularly participated in all bodies and meetings when doing this draft law and made his remarks, suggestions, suggestions, suggestions, bids, praises and other things. It happened that the University of Zagreb and the rectoral assembly had different proposals compared to the University of Rijeka. We cannot and must not enter or influence the relationship between the rectors and their individual responsibilities as they also formulate their demands. I hope that they are formulated by a democratic, democratic way and that the representative of the rectorial assembly individually reports on what he was doing, how he was working at that session of the rector's assembly or the working group meeting that wrote this draft law. Of course, everyone flees from the burden and the worker, an employee who works at the agency, etc., the agency and the rector's assembly had diametrically opposed demands. The agency wanted to fully liberalise the whole procedure, and the rectorial assembly, or representatives of the rector's assembly, insisted on administrative procedure as a formalised procedure, because this will protect the entry of bad students from poor high schools from the environment into the Croatian higher school system and thus lead to a completed qualification. This rule adopted by the minister, which in constitutional law or constitutional law theory we call a imbalance of the balance in favour of the executive authority, and then, through the actual application of the law, derivation through regulations as sublegal acts is the result of the motion of a rectorial assembly, believe it or not. And that opinion that the rectorial assembly will give, there are records from those meetings there's a colleague who's been on each, on each working group he's come out as such, as such a proposal. It's a question of duality. We cannot impose on higher universities whether or not they will take over the Agency's service to perform for them or go into independent procedures. The 60-day question for the evaluation of higher education qualifications or other foreign qualifications for access to the labour market, why is this period so long? So, for God's sake, you have to verify the credibility of the qualification. How are you going to verify the credibility of the Tajikistan qualification or any other remote countries from communication problems to the delivery of credible facts and evidence to prove your credibility. It's a maximum deadline of 60 days, it can be shorter, it can be 3 days, it can be 15 days. All the time she consulted and collaborated with persons or officials who worked in... the office and the entire system, throughout the system of recognition, which results in learning, which educational periods, which is a qualification and it is an optimum which has been achieved in agreement with the Agency because it must verify the credibility of the diploma. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What no one has noticed, and the fact that a student will not wander from a higher school or a student from one school to another school, will all apply to the Central Application Office of the Science and Higher Education Agency and will then distribute it through this complex process, not only of procedure or jurisdiction but also of the titles we use, because such concepts in Croatia are simply based on the fact that it is a qualification, a period of learning, a period of relations, etc. There have been many words or concerns here or that we have not provided sufficient evidence of the recognition of the period of education or qualifications for people without citizenship, or asylum seekers who have been granted permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, to this day you have 0 requests, and neither can we provide you with any practice. How many will be tomorrow, 100, 1, none, I am not psychic Milan, so I can't tell you, as some today had transcendental thoughts and this, negative expressions about the announcements of future legal texts. These qualifications have been expressed on the head of the state administration's body responsible for education and science, that a man of dangerous intent given previous legal procedures and I know that he repeats himself from meeting to meeting when anyone comes from the Ministry of Science and Education where he is then said that the ministry puts his paw, subordinates everything to himself, it is.../incomprehensible/... party of dangerous, persons... intention, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I have to point out from this pay phone that there's no need to talk about something that's going to be pro futuro because we're not responsible for future steps that are going to happen. As regards the relationship between the regulations, I said that the University of Zagreb as a representative of the Rector's Assembly has proposed making such a regulation, when it comes to relations with regulated professions, is responsible for this, so that the issue of amending and supplementing the Law on the recognition of qualifications which are included in the list for regulated professions must be addressed to the Ministry of Labour in view of the fact that it leads the whole approach and the whole relationship. When it comes to the recognition of domestic qualifications, we must again come to us with always an expensive term of university autonomy. Namely, you know that according to the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, Croatian public universities are self-accrediting all their study programmes at pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate level, whether in specialist, or doctoral, as well as extremely professional studies that have become a luxuriant part of the activities of these public universities and are increasingly at the expense of higher schools as a model of dual education and professional study programs. Lately, we've had integrated studies so that some social sciences in the field of economics are driven by integrated study programmes. What am I saying? I don't want to touch you anymore, and I don't want to be smart. The question of qualifications such as the completion of study programmes of medical-laboratory diagnostics is the issue of this public higher university, i.e. universities accredited by the study programme for which they did not receive the prior consent of the resolution ministry, i.e. health and chamber, since it is a regulated profession. As he will explain to the graduate students that they sold the horn under the candle, it is a question of the heads of these universities and the issue of university autonomy. The issue of the University of Mostar was mentioned here today as the only higher education institution or BiH institution to teach in the standard Croatian literary language. Recently, the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia held a joint session of the Rector's Assembly with the BiH Rector's Conference. It was an ideal income for rectors to think a little bit about quality, to discuss quality. The Rector of our largest, oldest, most beautiful and most important university and teaches at that same university, and I know that you, the distinguished representative Selak Rasudiæ are employees of that same University, so I believe that the leader can question the quality mentioned here today because he mentioned Mostar and the University of Mostar in a negative context compared to the University of Split. There is something about what really represents in that core, the essence issue of university autonomy, the question of quality, learning outcome checks, tests and how they are laid down, and this cannot and should not be the subject of debate on the recognition of foreign and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications. When it comes to value through salary supplements for people who have completed postgraduate and specialist studies, I have long been in the system although I am not aware of it, I am aware of the change in the wage system in 2001 or '02. Mr. where the then government, especially its vice president, has changed the system of payment classes, introduced the payment coefficients system, and it is in force and today as a bad system, and most people in the system have lost large amounts of money, I personally lost, I think almost 1700 on the salary and in 2001 or 2002, and then in the collective bargaining system between the union and the then government, I think of the union proposal, if I am not mistaken, because of the situation of doctors or employees in biomedicine and health care, an addition to academic degrees of doctor and master of science was introduced, and then it was, I must admit strangely and the question is, and I'm really surprised that no one has so far asked constitutionality, the issue of constitutionality of these supplements. Namely, if you're for a job, it's a condition of academic degree of doctor science, then you can't give him an add-on because he has met the conditions for a job. And if you've already given for the highest academic degree and the peak of someone's scientific work supplement, then you've also given for the master's degree of science as a previous period of postgraduate education, then it's odd why you didn't give for postgraduate specialist studies, but also for graduate studies, and also for postgraduate studies because it's a question of equal approach and I'm surprised that none of the interested parties asked the question of legality or, above all, the constitutionality of these provisions. I would stop here because it's 19 hours and 55 minutes, and I see that we have this, that I'm being warned that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, so here, I'm giving myself up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92456	Thank you. Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92457	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary representatives by realizing that I had transcendental thoughts when I was talking about the new Law on Science and Higher Education. My thoughts or findings were no longer beyond the limits of experience but were founded in what preceded this minister’s term, and these were his once proposed amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education, and as far as the doctorate supplementation is concerned, high school teachers also have a doctorate and need a doctorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92458	Well, you know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a third warning. Replica has a respected representative, Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92459	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I will thank you for this exhaustive final address and for your openness to this High House, but since we have already touched on the subject of nostrification of the BiH diploma, do you know how many of these diplomas there are, i.e. how many of our citizens have access to colleges in BiH, here, specifically, at the University of Mostar. Some colleagues here have mentioned and mentioned the financing of the University of Mostar itself, I disagree with them and I am absolutely for the University of Mostar and investing in the same and help by the Republic of Croatia because there are Croats there and if there were no such institutions I don't think there would be any more room for Croats in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92460	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92461	Thank you very much, Your Honor. When it comes to foreign higher education qualifications, around 1,000 to 1300 vary the data is a requirement for recognition of higher education qualifications, around 80%, meaning 800, 900 from BiH and a good part of those requirements is rejected. Unfortunately, administrative disputes are being initiated because administrative proceedings and courts are now prescribed, judges believe that there is no significant difference in quality given the reason for the debate, to explain the solution, and then you cannot, simply drop those non-recognition decisions and the Agency is forced to recognise. When it comes to financing higher education for the Croats in BiH, it is at an annual level of 8 million kuna and a high public, higher education of the Republic of Croatia costs 3 billion kuna on average for all public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92462	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92463	Dear secretary, I was intrigued by this when you said that the University of Zagreb insisted on a administrative procedure, did it, to keep the administrative procedure in order to prevent the inflow of non-quality qualifications, whether, with unquality diplomats in our system. Does this mean that this part that remains under an irregular procedure allows for a breakthrough, so to speak, of unskilled qualifications on our labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92464	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92465	Thank you very much. Namely, the principle of recognition for the purpose of continuing education is a more demanding principle, especially when it comes to higher universities, such as the University of Zagreb, which has 34 components from biomedicine and health care to interdisciplinary fields of philology, social humanist sciences, and is particularly difficult, for example in regulated professions, i.e. studies whose completion gives rise to regulated professions, this procedure must be more demanding in my humble conviction. The insistence of the University of Zagreb, i.e. the University of Zagreb, was an authorised representative of the Rector's Assembly in order to protect demanding and difficult studies, important studies where it is decided on human health to be a more rigorous procedure, unlike this recognition procedure where each employer will decide whether to hire someone or not, I apologize, I missed the time so here... I hope I've at least answered something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92466	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Here it is, precisely at 8:00 p.m., ringing the bell, and we're starting at the following point: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 214; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 214. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't understand. What do you want? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't realize what it was about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm just paying attention to the fact that given the number of clubs and individual debates without replicas, we're going to be somewhere by midnight, probably with replicas, a little bit longer. Here, just so we know. Uh, I'm going to give the secretary of state again, of course, the honorary representative, Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs and gentlemen, we have before us the law on amendments and additions to road safety that is a total of the tenth amendment if we count the decisions of the Constitutional Court which were in the meantime on the law that was passed in 2008. So, with relatively frequent changes and additions, we try to bring this important area in line with modern technical and other norms, but also to get fewer people killed in road traffic in the Republic of Croatia. The figures that we have despite all our efforts are still, in the opinion of all of us, the whole of society is still too big, so the damages in life, health, material value, and we all want to achieve such a condition in which the number of deaths, which, for example, now in 2020, amounted to 58 deaths per million inhabitants, last year 71 was a population increase, to be in the years ahead of us as little as possible. In this respect, in addition to these changes, we believe that the new National Road Safety Plan, which was brought in last summer, will also help some half a year ago and will cover the period from 2021 to 2030, and there are a number of measures to improve the state of security. This law, which lies before you, regulates certain conditions of participation in the transport of personal means of transport such as electric romobiles, electric monocycles, segwey etc. It will also enable and arrange their participation in road transport. The right and the way to use surfaces that can be moved and conditions that must be met by such vehicles and by drivers of those vehicles when taking part in the transport will be regulated. Here I would like to point out the following, two new categories of means of transport are defined as auxiliary walking aids relating to devices that are driven exclusively by the power of a person who manages such means such as romobiles without motor or electric power, bicycles, children's bicycles, rollers, rollers, sleds and similar and personal means of transport which include vehicles which are not classified in any category of vehicles according to specific regulations which do not have a seat, whose engine's working range is not greater than 25 cm3 or whose power, therefore, the permanent power of the electric motor is not more than 0.6 kW and which cannot develop on a flat road more than 25 km/h. There are, these are vehicles that can balance themselves like motor or electric-powered monocycles, segway, motor or electric-powered romobiles and the like. For this category of means of transport, I want to point out the following. The drivers of these vehicles are obliged to move along a cycling path or bike lane. In cases where a cyclist's path or lane does not exist, the areas intended for the movement of pedestrians and zones of calm traffic may be moved, but provided that the safety of other road users is taken into account, above all, by pedestrians. Exceptionally, these personal means of transport may be used on shares of county, local or unclassified roads on which the speed of movement is limited to or less than 50 km/h and where this is allowed by a traffic sign moving as close as possible to the right edge of the stake. Legal persons managing those roads are obliged to give rise to the previous consent of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I would like to highlight some other rules that propose this law on the management of personal means of transport, such as the following. The age limit for managing these means of transport is 14 years, so minimal. When moving along a cyclist path, it is necessary to pay attention to the distance and speed of the vehicles approaching them and to the crossings and to ensure that this is possible in a safe manner. If the bike path is not marked over the wheel they are obliged to stop and push a personal means of transport as a walk over the marked pedestrian crossing or wheel of the road. So the rules are as good as the bikes. If they move at night and day in the event of reduced visibility, they must be marked with a reflective vest or generally reflective clothing. In addition, when moving at night or in case of reduced visibility during the day on a personal medium, one white light on the front and one red light on the rear must be turned on. Then, under 16 years of age, those between 14 and 16 years of age must wear a safety helmet while driving. Only a person operating that vehicle and not another person with it should be transported on a personal means of transport. A vehicle shall not be operated using both earphones which, of course, reduces the ability to react and drive safely. At the same time, both hands shall not be removed from the driver and the personal means of transport shall not be moved on the highway, on the fast road and on the road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles. All other vehicles of similar characteristics which do not fall within the category of personal means of transport will have to be classified in one of the existing categories of vehicles in accordance with the specific Regulation. This is the Regulation on technical conditions of road transport, because otherwise it will not be allowed to operate or participate in road transport. In addition, the regulation of these new funds that have emerged in transport in recent years, which are most or a good part of European countries, but not all of their participation in transport regulated in the last two, three years, this law regulates even with its fifty articles and some other issues. This introduces the concept of a transport zone in a protected cultural and historical area, a contact zone. This is included in the law on the proposal of the City of Dubrovnik, to introduce such a concept because the cultural and historical whole, and the area surrounding cultural well-being, which is listed in the World Heritage List and in the list of endangered world heritage and for which measures are being set to ensure the protection of the value of this cultural good according to a specific regulation. Furthermore, it is possible that doctors, therefore, who at all, therefore, have family medicine and all doctors issue notices of temporary inability to drive vehicles due to the temporary health condition of the driver. Namely, these changes and additions want to reduce the administrative and financial burden both of the driver, of the doctor and of the police administrations and of the stations involved in road safety operations. According to the current provisions of the Road Safety Act, the costs of an extraordinary medical examination are borne by drivers, i.e. police administrations or police stations, depending on the established health capacity of the driver himself. If the driver is rated his ability as if he's capable, then those costs will be borne by the police department and the station, otherwise they will be carried by the driver. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the laws introduce the possibility for doctors, therefore the doctor who has carried out the examination or treated the driver, and the doctor chosen to warn the driver, with a warning to the driver and the police administration and becomes the place of residence, and this notice means that the driver is temporarily unable to manage the vehicle temporarily because of the current health condition, but the driver is not necessarily required to carry out a health check. The Minister of Health is obliged to comply with the Regulation on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers with the provisions of this law, i.e. to prescribe diseases and conditions which make drivers unable to manage temporarily and for a maximum period of six months. So I'll do it again. Doctors are obliged to warn the driver, to record a warning in medical documentation and through a central information system, so known as CEZIH or a special form which is now available to notify the police administration or station, and drivers must observe the above information and warnings issued by the doctor and not manage the vehicle for a specified period of time and for a maximum period of six months. I repeat, it's about those diseases and conditions that, by nature, things take a shorter period of time. In this way, it would avoid sending a driver to perform a health check due to temporary health conditions for a shorter period of time, and this would result in a reduction of costs. A fine for failing to carry out an extraordinary medical examination would also be lifted. Since the driver’s licence is withdrawn unless the driver carries out an extraordinary medical examination to which he has been sent. I would like to point out once again that in cases where the health condition of the driver is more severe, he will continue to be referred to performing an extraordinary supervisory health examination. Furthermore, this law provides for sanctioning unconscious drivers who park in the intended places intended solely for charging electric vehicles. In recent months, perhaps even some years since the equipment for charging electric vehicles has often been seen by vehicles that have been parked there for several hours or even more days and she, therefore currently there are no sanctions for their sanctioning, so there are no sanctions for them and they use that legal void and often even though they do not fill the vehicle for the benefit of this place as a free parking space. Furthermore, this law provides for the abolishing of registration plates with red and green numbers and letters. Since these markings and letters are likely to be relatively rarely seen or not in such large numbers, let us forget that they exist. However, our regulations regulate the possibility of issuing such registration plates. The red numbers and letters shall be marked by those vehicles which have, which do not meet the standard conditions relating to the dimensions of the length, width, height, or whose maximum permissible mass is greater than the prescribed mass, or those vehicles that exceed the permitted axle loads. As regards green vehicles, so vehicles marked with registration plates with green numbers and letters are thus marked by vehicles of foreigners and temporarily registered vehicles, and we hold that for, from the point of view of road safety, there is no need for one and the other, and abroad, since these vehicles, with their registration plates of another colour, bounce from the other plates issued in the Republic of Croatia, often foreign traffic control bodies carry out unnecessary longer police, customs or inspection checks, and ultimately find that these vehicles are properly registered and marked, but that, in our regulations, makes it impossible to use those vehicles, especially abroad. Further to this Act, we also define the method of passing an emergency vehicle when an incident situation occurs, so the creation of a corridor for passing an emergency service vehicle, also known as the life-saving tape which is therefore intended for priority vehicles, and serves as a gateway of the emergency service vehicle, when an incident situation occurs. This would significantly speed up the process of helping injured road users, and this is currently regulated in art. 152 st. 1 but only on 2 traffic lanes, so in different directions, and on, say, highways or roads where we have in the same direction 2 or more lanes there is no such provision. In doing so, the vehicles on the left hand side would go left in the track on the left hand side, which are on the right hand side, one or more of the lanes on the right would go to the right and there would be space. According to some studies conducted in Austria, an emergency corridor can speed up emergency services arrival at the scene by about 4 to 5 minutes and increase the chances of survival of injured by 40%. These provisions are being made in many European countries. As many foreign tourists come to us, they already behave in these situations, too, we would like our drivers to get a routine, and when something like that happens to create, they open that corridor and move left or right. Furthermore, given the technological development and existence of such vehicles, the definition of a fully automated vehicle is introduced and sanctions are imposed for drivers who use vehicles improperly with partially automated systems. Therefore, that sanction is prescribed for those drivers who use vehicles with built-in driver assistance systems, so it is partly automated vehicle in such a way that, if they do not, for example, sit in the driver’s seat during driving, or simply in those cases where necessary, when a malfunction may occur or when it is necessary to manage that vehicle, they are simply not in a position to do so and such, so traffic accidents may occur with the most serious consequences, so this type of offence is considered an extremely serious violation committed with a direct intention and it is proposed to prescribe sanctions of up to 3 to 7,000 kuna. Furthermore, it allows drivers of category B to manage motor tricycles that are more than 15 kW and I would also end up mentioning an increase, one of the rare cases in this Act, thus increasing the fine for violations and for an unadjusted speed where the currently prescribed fine is 500 kuna, and the proposal in this new, new amendments and additions to the Act that it amounts to 1000 kuna. In, of all the violations and dangerous behaviors, when driving, the unadjusted and improper driving kills the most people in the Republic of Croatia. In 2020, a total of 106 and 40.4% of all victims died in that year, and last 2021 were killed by an unadjusted unrecorded drive of 113 people and 38.7% of the 292 victims, respectively. After the adoption of this Act, it will also be necessary to adopt several sublaws, a total of 7, I do not have time to count them all now, but some are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, and some are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92470	Thank you. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. Let's start from the beginning, he is the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92471	My dear secretary, I think everyone will welcome the regulation of this particular section, which is related to personal transportation, given that the drivers of these funds were already a general danger to themselves and other participants in the transport. I would personally welcome the fact that you have made a technical and technological step since you have connected several systems together, primarily this doctor, for doctors and a system that will inform the police of the temporary incompetence of the driver, but what is here, to me disputed, since I have had more questions than my fellow citizens and known and friends, it is about this very incompetence. Namely, I ask you to explain this to the people of both the public and us here, what happens to drivers who have been normally taking medications, such as anti-allergic drugs, who say they can't drive vehicles if they're taking these medicines. So far, no problem, they've been using for years. And now there's danger [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That he won't be able to use it anymore, how he's going to go to work, e.g.? [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92472	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. In my opening statement, I pointed out that, in order to be able to apply these new provisions, doctors should warn the driver when they are in such a health condition that they cannot safely manage the vehicle and therefore record it either through the system or through this form and physically send it to the police department or station. I mentioned that it will be passed, it is necessary to pass a new or updated law, i.e. a rule on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers in which these conditions will be accurately counted. You often mention allergies because of course, today there are a lot of people who have certain allergies, using pills or part of the year or all year, but we'll see what the waist says and whether to determine that in such means contraindication for driving. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92473	Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92474	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, one of the provisions that are very controversial in this legislative proposal to the disputed medics, says it obliges the selected doctor to, in the event of a temporary incompetence for security management, exist, it is therefore necessary to warn the driver to notify on or, inform the competent police administration or become without the driver's obligation to carry out a health check. What the medics indicated was an increase in administration. Will there really be an increase in administration as provided for in this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92475	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92476	We believe that this will simplify administration, that surely the number of those who are, who will be sent for an extraordinary medical and medical examination will be much less than he has been in recent years. Now, that number escalated especially in 2019 when there were nearly 10 grand. It's been three thousand, and a year before three and 800. So this number will drop significantly because the maximum number of these changes in health conditions are temporary, so due to the use of the medicine, some injuries, when the driver cannot safely drive through system recording, driver warning, that driver will be given a number of days or weeks or months, maximum of 6, abstinence from driving.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92477	Your Honor, Agent Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have a medical profession in charge of determining the driver's health skills. In this very proposal of the Law there will be a lot of things on the medical profession and they complain that there was no one in the working group members from the professional medical societies and associations, and the justification that someone was the Ministry of Health is not a good excuse because the medical profession is one thing, and the ministry is something else, it is an administration, it is politics and other things, so I ask you to answer how is it that in such an important law in which the medical profession is important, the good part actually applies and will be on their burden and on their responsibility, why have they not been engaged in members of the working team of doctors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92479	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92480	Your Honor... I have not heard well of which doctors because we have, you know, a Croatian medical chamber, we have different associations of doctors, the Ministry of Health, of course that respects the views of the profession and in this Regulation that will have to be passed within 6 months of the entry into force of this Regulation will be only those conditions or diseases, or in case of the use of drugs only those medicines that the profession says are not safe to use and at the same time drive, and therefore in some shorter periods of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All that is, all those health conditions that are more serious, more lasting, the consequences of some more serious or... diseases that go worse and worse will be referred to medical examinations and they will, exceptional medical examinations and will be there to determine whether they are able to continue driving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've been in constant contact with doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92481	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92482	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I have here a memo from the Director of the Croatian Red Cross. We know what the Croatian Red Cross is and that it works in the area of the price of the Republic of Croatia and since we have these changes in art. 151st inserted the vehicles of the Mountain Rescue Service, I mean the Art. 149 and 151 which speak of vehicles which are not subject to the provisions of this Act relating to speed limitation, we know that the Croatian Red Cross is the basic operational force of the civil protection system of the Republic of Croatia in major accidents and disasters and operate in all phases of the emergency assistance operation, so I wonder if the Ministry can also insert the HCK into all these vehicles that are allowed to exceed speed, and here, we are ready, if necessary and put the amendment, if that is the way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92483	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92484	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We will listen to the arguments that HCK will make and we are ready in case I know the role of HCK in all situations where people and property are suffering and we will appreciate this contribution and based on their arguments we will, based on their arguments we will consider including in the final draft law and them in this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92485	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92486	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I understand now, you know the patient-saved one. There, in 2018, I went with an amendment to this Act to regulate the subject of rhombus and the answer I received from the ministry where you were then, as you were now State Secretary, was that you were in the preparation of a law that would regulate it, and that then there would be a whole solution that would be in the parliamentary debate step by step here we are until 2022. And it's good we're here, and we'll finally regulate the romobiles. And then I stay a little bit surprised because when it was being prepared then I sat down with associations who, I asked what should be regulated, how to regulate, which is important, which is important when really used and in some other conditions of the rhombus. Among other things, there was no one who didn't say it was important to use a helmet, but in a legal solution, we only have a legal helmet solution up to 16 years, over 16 years, we don't need it. On what basis do you base such a provision in the law that you have now proposed. Why is it that more than 16 years if a man drives a car, he doesn't have to wear a helmet if he has to wear it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92487	Thank you. State Secretary. Please let's stick to time. This is how I estimate we won't be done one night ago. If we don't stick to the weather, we'll be longer. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92488	Thank you very much. Madam representative, if we had discussed this subject almost three years ago. They have appeared, therefore, in these amendments and additions one significant part of these provisions, which regulate personal means of transport. I think they're well and thoroughly regulated now, but this isn't the final text, we'll see what's best. We've been looking at experiences and other countries that, just as I said these last two, three years, have regulated this area. It didn't go very easy anywhere and there were different visions of solving this problem. As one of the MPs, I'm sorry, I forgot who said it now, but we see these people, we see them driving these funds, and often it doesn't look very good if there's a crowd somewhere on the stake, we're afraid someone's gonna get hurt. This provision around the helmet was a cause for that, therefore regulation similar to that of the bicycles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92489	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92490	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Katic, here I will refer to this question that has really caused this storm in public, among citizens and of course has also caused disdain amongst professions, and this reporting of patients by family doctors. A little of this has been touched by fellow Pavić, and I will mention that we already have in the current law the obligation of all doctors to report in case of severe and permanent changes in health conditions. But now these proposed changes introduce the notion of applying for any temporary and minimum health changes, and we have heard that the ability to drive a car is that the reduction is even by using medicines for example allergies, but not only for cold, headache or heartburn, which is really absurd. Because then almost half of Croatia could lose its driver's license, so here's your comment. And you said in your answer to fellow Pavic that you did not consult with the profession before the bill. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92491	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92492	I don't remember saying this like that, but maybe it was some kind of a lapus. We talked and now I'm talking about health care professionals, doctors, but the rules will be exactly what the conditions are. I think if we were to count the people they're using, so anti-allergic medications or heartburns to be more than 50% as likely as you said. And I believe in the end the waist will say that it's just drugs or some means that affect more seriously the driver's ability to drive or say some injuries or some condition that makes a person not able to drive. I don't think that's what we're doing, but we're just splitting up those more serious, longer cases than those that are short-lived, temporary and somewhat milder, it's hard to say here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92493	Thank you. Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92494	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. In the proposal for this law, you predicted that family medicine doctors would assume the obligation to control their patients' driving skills, which I do not consider to be a good and additional burden and such a burden on the primary health care system. Have you, as a legislator, considered if, in this proposal, our priority is to control the driver's health status in order to increase traffic safety, the possibility of automatic synchronisation of data between the HZZO information system and the Ministry of the Interior would further avoid the safe burden of family medicine and significantly facilitate their work so that they do not have to report in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92495	Thank you, colleague Klasic. We're legislators, and the government's executive body. I have to warn you about that. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92496	Dear Mr. Representative, it is certainly important to connect between the authorities of the state administration, ministries, offices and other institutions, and the MUP is in a particular segment but not entirely connected. If such provisions that we have predicted that family or other doctors who have treated the driver are still being introduced into CESIH, therefore the possibility for this segment of integration has not been created and this will be done very quickly because already these notifications that I have now sent to doctors that I have said for the past year are going through CESIH. But then it needs to be done a little bit more so that these notices can also go through the basis of this law and the regulation that will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92497	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's me as legislators we've seen a whole series of irregularities and I'd say strange solutions to this law and we're willing to stay as long as it takes to maybe change some things. What I'm interested in is saying that when it comes to these romobiles, I don't really know what to ask you, there's a lot of things, but here's what I've decided. So their speed must not go more than 25 km/h and they can move along a cycling path or a cycling lane. Both you and I know that there are not enough in Zagreb or Croatia, so they will drive where they will drive and how they will drive. And it's up to you to sanction them. Can you please tell us how you predicted, which device and how, without directly noticing the official person, you predict the speed of the rhombus movement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92499	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92500	Mr. Representative, at this point of course we can all see that we do not have as many countries as Germany or the Netherlands, such a large number of cycling trails and lanes. They are slowly growing in our cities, but it is still not enough to wish, primarily a cyclist, but also pedestrians and all citizens. For the time being, I can't answer you what kind of means it is besides the observation of a police officer, maybe there's something because the drivers of these personal means of transport usually move very often and through the crowd, blinking through the sidewalk, it's probably very, I don't know which means it can measure it precisely, but we've limited to 25 because all countries have limited, some or less. and most of all on that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92501	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Mr Matai, in amendments. 233 is defined exactly who, therefore, reports the possibility that someone cannot participate in traffic, means the doctor who has performed the examination, any doctor who has performed the examination. The doctor who treated the driver, so at the hospital anywhere he was treated by the chosen doctor or by means of CEZIH or by written means, if CESIH is not available to him, informs the police. What's always in the air, so I, if I get this right, all the doctors are obliged to report, they were in the hospital, they were in this sector, primary health care, and what's always left is that the cops will be able to see that they have a temporary ban on driving, but not the codes and diagnosis, And they won't know what it's about? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I am that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92503	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92504	If I understand correctly, you asked if you understood correctly, it is, so the police officer will not see what diagnosis or code it is, he will not know what disease he is suffering from or what kind of medicine he is taking. All they'll see is he's been banned from management and until he's got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92505	Dear representative Puljak. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92506	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. By this law we regulate everything that is related to the movement of an electric rhombus, some countries have already introduced it. We import it now, introduce this, regulate this, this amendment and the addition of the law. But I'm curious whether or not we'll predict, if not now, then in the second reading and compensation insurance for third parties, we know that this is also unnecessaryly related to possible accidents or damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92507	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92508	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. Of course, all transport participants, which are, of course, those participants who use this personal means of transport, can cause a traffic accident that can, they and other persons may suffer or cause certain material damage and will need to be regulated and insured in the event of such damage to third parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92509	Honorable representative and vice president Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92510	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions for you. The first question is being added in some way to the replica of Mrak-Taritash, who has apostrophe of the legal definition that protective helmets are mandatory for mobile drivers under the age of 16, which you also said is analogous to bicycle drivers. My question is why this border is 16 years old and is less endangered by those who manage rhomobiles or bicycles, and are over 16 years old. And the second question, you mentioned some countries in which up to 25 km/h is allowed for romobiles, but very rarely that speed is allowed for romobiles that have to move really by foot, and we know that there are few actually cycling paths and most cycling trails are marked on footsteps and do you think it's very logical or We should limit the footsteps to rapid steps. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92511	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92512	As far as the first question is concerned, it is.../incomprehensible/... so certainly a person who is more than 16 years old may suffer, of course, a person between 14 and 16 years of age because of his psychophysical development perhaps something more exposed than a person who is somewhat older and more experienced, may have more experience in traffic management and participation in general, but this is probably part of the present provisions and some heritage, but we can continue to discuss some other solutions and age limits. As for the second question, there are countries that have even limited the movement and on foot to about six miles [6 km]. Personally, I mean, you asked me for a personal opinion, that it might be too small, but for it to be worth making a distinction between the stakes, sidewalks and the cycling trail, that's possible, that would make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92513	Thank you. Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92514	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here, I was going to ask you something else, but my colleague Emil Deus encouraged me to ask you, unfortunately he's gone, something else entirely. So you've been in the past since 2008 this Law has survived 9 amendments. This is now the 10th in all the 9 changes you've invited to work group and medical associations. This time, for the first time this time there was no doctor's representative in the working group, otherwise a commission was formed on 19.10.2020 and there was no doctor, he was only a representative of the Ministry. So you can tell us why this time you haven't invited medical associations that are very important to us for these changes, and of course you can. with their objection to Art. 233 [[Intruder: Thank you.]] from the law so far. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92515	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92516	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. After the last changes from 2019, I personally met with representatives of medical associations among which I may not be counting everything, not with everyone likely, but with KHOM I certainly am. So by coordinating the doctor of family medicine, right? Why weren't they, were they, by any chance, I don't know the content, a list of all the members of the task force, if I find out, I'll let you know anyway. In any case, the discussion about it would not, it is always good and I think that to listen to the proposals of all the laws it touches is desirable and necessary, and then to respect the proposals that most people decide to be most meaningful, that they will best contribute to the basic purpose of this Law, which is to reduce the number of victims in transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92517	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92518	Dear Secretary of State, in particular Chief Matai, it is certainly commendable to this initiative, this change, a step with time around the romobiles and those one-ways that you limit your speed, but you must give greater importance and preventively repressive action to irresponsible, uncultural and non-civilised bicycle drivers who, by the sidewalks, put their feet at risk in cities, in urban areas most vulnerable, older age, pedestrians, moms with children, etc., this is first, it is evident in Zagreb, it is a disaster that is being done, go for a walk, and you will see how many cyclists will hit you in the elbow or if you are lucky, not worse. And secondly, are you in contact with the doctors responsible for the vaccination sites, do you have any side effects from vaccination and I know 3 cases, 2 cyclists and one of these, the car driver who have been completed after vaccination in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Grab or in a car accident [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]] Here. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92519	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92520	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Although we often point out when we talk about this Law and this matter, traffic safety on roads is an important man, a vehicle, and roads. I'd say, that's my opinion, and I think it's shared by many others, that man is most important. If a man, as you say is decent, conscientious, if he respects others in traffic, if he counters the situation, if he's not just looking at his cell phone, I don't know, somewhere empty, but monitoring what's going on, he's going to prevent a lot of accidents. So on the road, but also on the bike paths on the stake and so on. For this question that you have referred to, I have no information about it, so I can't really tell you anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92521	Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we are witnessing that electric vehicles have more and more, last year twice as much as the previous total of all years and it is commendable that you have introduced this Law, punishment for offenders who park in a place where electric vehicles are loaded. However, this Law will come real in six months' time. Is there a solution in the meantime to punish those who park on the designated spot, not charge an electric vehicle and do not have an electric vehicle?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92523	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92524	It appears that the task force has thus established that there is no other option and therefore this provision is prescribed. I'm a lawyer and somehow I think there might have been a way, but now I haven't been involved, I haven't consulted anything more so we can, so we can explicitly tell you, so I believe that the task force did everything possible and when she saw that there was no other way, then she decided to supplement with that provision this Law. I saw in one place close to where I live that, which, dis, parking is, so there's a place to charge and I see that it's always a lot and I see those same vehicles and when I go to work and when I come back, I come back, so obviously they abuse it. Is it possible to charge parking tickets or other sanctions, it should be seen with the city authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92525	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92526	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Katic, here I am going to repeat, very often during these replicas spoken the truth, we all know, especially in urban areas, that romobiles are a problem. We have to put ourselves in their position sometimes, and it's not too difficult for them, let alone slowly get off the sidewalk where pedestrians are moving. Here, let's say, I will speak specifically to you in the city of di live, here in Zagreb, those on the road, let's say in one Vlaška, in one Drašković, in one Tesla, in one Vukovar cannot come on the road because it will endanger, primarily, its own life. But again, I say, it seems to me that we haven't solved the important thing here. What are we gonna do with these people? They want to drive their romobiles. I remind you, I've been a motorist for over 30 years. Everybody was taking off the engine blockers of those of 50 cc's to go 120 per hour. How will you solve the problem? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Romobile speed control [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]] On footing surfaces? [[Thank you. Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. /]] I apologize to the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92527	So now we're solving, Mr. MP, one news that's come up, which may have been a little bit, because when we've seen the last few years every day, every week we've seen more and more, especially in the centre or the wider center of Zagreb, it's winter, so there are fewer, but as soon as there are warm days, there will be a very large number of them, as you say, passing through and among pedestrians, and we certainly have to solve that question because for now we've been lucky that there have been no numerous and great accidents and casualties, but we have to do everything that we don't, we just don't hope, and we haven't done anything. That wouldn't be an excuse for all of us. Experiences and others are that roads where vehicles move at a higher speed, so more than 50 km/h do not use romobiles, and there extremely where on roads where the limits are...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92528	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92529	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, we are aware of the fact that, for a long time, vehicles that have not been legally regulated have appeared on our roads, so to speak. Romobiles. Some say that they have a positive impact on the environment, facilitate and accelerate the movement in major traffic jams, which, for sure, it is. Other European countries have regulated that, Germany means it regulated them at a speed of 20 km/h, 14 years old for management, Austria 25, all over 12 years old can manage, I welcome what we will finally and legislation because of course, not to cough for other European countries, but my question to you, how much these legal provisions will improve the situation and security on our roads when we are aware that traffic accidents are still large, that penalties that are not minor do not affect that. If we need to step up education since kindergarten, maybe step up the campaign because the test is real. transport cultures hardly can be made... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92530	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92531	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. I'll start from the end of your presentation. Certainly, education and prevention are the key to reducing the number of accidents and accidents. It's never enough, but we're all aware that a small but hard-core number of people can't be affected and that will always commit crimes and crimes, and therefore there must be sanctions. Some may seem rigorous, we believe that they are well measured, adequate at this point in the economic situation. Traffic accidents are unfortunately the 8th cause of death of all ages, age in the world, among these youngest, up to 29 years are the first cause of death. That may sound amazing, but that's how it's been determined and we all need to make that number of victims as small as possible, make it one. Let's root out the days. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92532	On the phone, we have a respected representative, Maric, who has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92533	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, do you have data on the percentages and numbers and with the number of fatalities that are the most common causes of accidents in the Republic of Croatia for the past 2 years, with special reference to the changed health situation that we are actually talking about in these amendments to the Law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92534	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92535	Your Honor, ma'am. Agents, if I understand correctly, the question is which are the biggest causes of death in traffic. That's speed, 57% is either irregular or unadjusted speed. Of course, behind them comes the use of alcohol and intoxicating drugs, use and others, followed by other means, primarily technical which, due to the driver's discrimination, therefore due to lack of attention in traffic and here, is how we come up with these high figures that I must certainly reduce. The health condition of the driver is certainly very important that this number is smaller and we think that these proposed provisions will reduce the number of those who drive and are not psychologically capable and ready to drive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92536	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and the first on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative, Andreja Maric, who we have on video. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92537	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we have already heard that this is the 10th Amendment to the Basic Road Safety Act, which dates back to the 2008 These amendments to the Law are already too far-fetched, so it is very difficult to apply and enforce in an effective and fair way. There were 224 comments in the public consultation that was published on July 7th, a large number of which were unfortunately not accepted. The safety of traffic on roads is most affected by effective and consistent enforcement of criminal provisions, education of citizens and information, i.e. prevention, and this is not seen in this Act. The state and development of road infrastructure has a major impact on the safe movement and safety of road users, from pedestrians to drivers. The Green Plan of the EU, Green Deal, strongly encourages the use of bicycles and bicycles, and very little cycling trails built in Croatia for the safe ride of cyclists. The trails are not separated from the stakes, but are only marked with a yellow ribbon or very rarely with a different color, and most often there is neither. There is a general trend in reducing motorisation on roads, using public transport, using electric bicycles and electric romobiles and using personal vehicles and public transport vehicles on electric power plants. The trend has already reached Croatia in some ways and has led to the definition of separate categories. Certainly, the use of personal means of transport undoubtedly has a positive effect on several aspects of traffic developments, the environmental aspect, the reduction of total loads of transport and motor vehicles, the reduction of the need for parking spaces, less public transport loads, are easy, portable and relatively acceptable prices. In this proposal, several amendments have been made to the Law, especially if a separate category of vehicle was defined, such as electric romobiles, electric bicycles or Segway, so personal means of transport. They are allowed to participate in the traffic on the wheel, in the case of no cycling tape and pedestrian area, only exceptionally on roads where speed is limited to 50 km/h and less and on which traffic sign such management is allowed. There was a lot of debate in public consultation that would actually allow speed, so there were also pedestrian zones and 5, 10, up to 25, mostly, there was no way that the applicant went to determine the number mark for speed as in some other European countries, but the drivers of personal means of transport are obliged to adapt their speed to the circumstances of the area managed and the safety of other traffic participants. There has also been a lot of debate and dispute over the limitations of the power of the passenger vehicle. First it was 250 watts, and now it's increased to 600 watts. Electric romobiles which do not belong to the category of personal means of transport will have to be approved and registered, and those whose speed exceeds 25 km/h on a flat road and where the comments from e-Advise are actually accepted, however, our representatives and the SDP Club held a meeting with representatives of the Croatian Association of Electric Romobile Drivers and there is, in fact, a disputed item precisely that restriction of the power of the electric motor of the personal means of transport to those 600 watts, since the EU Regulation No. The 168/2013 EU Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 on the type-approval and supervision of the vehicle market on 2 or 3 wheels and four-wheels in the field of application says that Regulation for L1, B vehicles does not apply if the vehicle does not have one seating position, so it is actually not possible to type-approval of the electric romobile as a vehicle, so this is actually quite unclear for us. The Croatian Association of Electric Romobile Drivers is also seeking to remove this power limit of the electric motor because they are trying to look long-term, not only in the short term, stressing that the electric vehicle industry, not only the romobiles, but all electric vehicles are growing exponentially, performance and efficiency are much higher due to the increased power of the electric motor and then is actually going to stimulate the micromobility and these alternative modes of transport, so here it is somehow calling for not to go to limit the power of those vehicles. This bill also mentions what we heard in the replica, that a protective helmet must be used up to 16 years old, the question now is why not over 16 years old. I don't... in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 30th century 1 where it says that bicycles and personal means of transport are allowed to be operated by a person who was 14 years old, they are actually in the sale of children's bicycles for less than 14 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to point out that we are increasing the penalty for unadjusted speed from 500 to 1000 kuna, of course it is important for us to be safe in transport, not only to charge the budget and punish the driver, but here, I think it is very important, primarily to act preventively, and then only repressively. And now, the most important item about which a lot would actually be pointed out would be, at the time of this presentation on behalf of the club and in the individual debate, finally, and this is a matter of health examination of the driver, i.e. medical examinations. Since not all that has been said by both the profession and the committee and the thematic session has been respected, we will not raise our hand to support this Law in this reading. Now, let's go in turn, so first, so the proposer says that the main intensities of these amendments to the law, we're talking about art. 37 and 38 relating to art. ... is that the objective of timely delivery of important information that can have a direct impact on road safety and that no new obligation has been imposed on the doctors of family medicine or new administration. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But it's not exactly like that. That is exactly what the representatives of the profession warned about, we held a thematic session that was held on 4.11.2021, shortly after that was the board of 24.11., the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health spoke at the the thematic session that we now have to discuss when it is not yet in the Government or in the Parliament, and in fact we have very much to discuss. It was trying to make some kind of changes to the law, and in fact, there will be social and health damage that will be far greater than what is trying to bring about by amending the law. So I appeal to the ministries to respect everything we warned about during the thematic session,... And at that thematic session, it was just those who were not involved with you, or at least you disobeyed them during the drafting of this bill. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So both HOCOM and Croatian Society of Medicine and Croatian Medical Chamber and Association of Patients and Representatives... So it was said a lot, and it was not appreciated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards KOHOM itself, medical chambers which state certain objections related to art. 37, yes, yes, doctors must report this temporary change to all who have therefore examined the patient. So it will actually lead to a series of questions and ask a number of questions related to such conduct. Is there some kind of deadline that can be extended after the end? Is the doctor obliged to call the patient again during that period to examine the condition of the driver? Is that driver even going to report for a checkup? There is certainly a loss of trust at the doctor-patient route. In addition, the resolution ministry has not yet defined a rule that will have its own list of diseases, conditions, medicines, doses, duration. So, all these conversations go from at least 2019 to 2022 and there's still no near the new rulebook. Look to the examples that have been set for you and the profession and a series of objections as arranged in the UK. I'll talk about it a little bit more in an individual debate. You also have an example from France because exactly there is a defined traffic light, marked red, yellow, green in terms of medicines that can affect the ability to drive so that it would really be instructive to listen to what was said at the the thematic session and at all these meetings so far. In addition to that Article, Article 37 is a major problem and Article 38. I'm still what's here... the provision that there is in fact the responsibility of doctors themselves if they do not report this temporary condition I repeat is not yet defined, there is no Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're actually wondering if it's all about getting the Department of the Interior rid of extra costs for medical examinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92538	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS, and a respected representative of Dragana Jeckov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92539	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. So, the law that is before us is unusually important for each of us because we are all in a way involved in traffic either actively or passively. Transport in terms of progress is a very dynamic area. Since technology is progressing literally from day to day and certain newspapers that were unimaginable to us until a year ago are now quite common. For this reason, in a legal sense, we must follow trends and respond to them in a timely manner because I am afraid that the prediction in which development will go is actually impossible. However, I think that in certain situations we still have to react more promptically, so I'm going to say in a simplistic way that the electric rhombus has existed for many years in reality, but not in law. I remember one text from about two years ago when one lady on an electric rhombus had a small child sitting on the bottom of a rommobile, the other a little older she put in front of her as her bag was sticking to the Maltese. The lady was driving a wheel that she shouldn't have, then she was warned and moved on to the nocturnal, but she wasn't actually on the inside at the time. In fact, the romobile under Article 124 of the current law applicable to road safety may be moved in part, which is intended for pedestrians, but must not go on a stake. Thank God this ride of the four mentioned ended without consequences, and it's undeniable that in fact, everyone was on that romobile in serious danger. At the beginning of the 10 months last year, we witnessed a tragedy involving a driver, a forty-six-year-old electric-romobile driver who died here in Zagreb because he was hit by a car run by a 20-year-old. Physicians have constantly warned us about the possible side effects of this kind of driving, so this fast-driving on the rhombus, so for N1 a prominent orthopedic set an example, precisely that one of those enormous speeds. So, he said that if a person of which 80 kilograms hits an hour at a speed of 30 to 40 km an hour, for example, a lighting column would cause serious injuries, of course, even death. Also more fatal and severe injuries can be exposed to pedestrians who encounter such a rhombus at this speed. That is why I find it controversial to suggest that the helmet be mandatory only for motorists under 16 years old, because the drop at a speed of 25 km/h on the head can certainly be fatal to anyone, not just those younger than 16 years old. Better normation in this segment is necessary, and the proposer has shown us several examples from Member States that can be a good orientation for us. Electric romobiles and similar vehicles have become our daily life and therefore it is not good to define a brand new category of vehicle that will bear the name personal means of transport, and all so as not to leave a potential maneuvering space for avoiding regulations. Among other things, it is stated that the construction speed of such vehicles does not exceed 25 km/h, so I wonder what will happen to those romobiles that cross this speed, and we know that there are those on the market. How do we regulate them? Unfortunately, unadjusted speed is one of the most common causes of traffic accidents. Scary sounds of information that a million 630 062 misdemeanors have been identified in just over two years, of which 654,000 883 cases have been reported for speeding. In 2020, the highest number of people were killed by 84, representing more than a third of all people killed in car accidents. For this reason, the fine for a violation of an unadjusted rate of movement on a thousand kunas is increased instead of the 500 so far, which was the most common cause of the accident as I have said. And since the law stipulates that the fine can be paid within three days in half of the amount, so that it was possible to pay 250 kuna for a misappropriation of unadjusted speed so far and peopleally to finish the whole story. I believe that the level of sentence imposed does not fulfil its purpose, that is, the perpetrator of the offence does not deter from repeating the conduct of the offence, and we know that the aim of the law should be prevention rather than sanctioning. I must also touch the transfer of part of responsibility to family medicine doctors, namely provisions that predict that family doctors will report to their patients who are unable to drive a vehicle because of their medical condition. The issue of this legislative proposal has been warned by the medical profession, because they believe that they were not sufficiently involved in the making of laws, i.e. that the employees of the Ministry of Health who worked on the law are actually administrative employees, not medics. What I am also afraid of is whether this proposal will add to the burden of the medical system especially the doctors of family medicine. If it was already necessary for doctors to take part in a certain way in law enforcement, as doctors of all specializations were obliged to warn about permanent changes affecting drivers, which is why it is now about occasional changes and only selected doctors of family medicine, which is why this does not apply to all, and to unselected doctors of other specializations. Some experts warned that the legal proposal could lead to a lower treatment outcome, resulting in an increased number of chronic illnesses. Why? The question arises: will this law lead to a breach of the doctor’s relationship? Or worse, will patients lie, for example, about the symptoms of a disease to preserve their license. After all, what if a patient is lying to his doctor about not having a driver's license at all? And the question of protection of personal data is raised in certain situations, so should the doctor even know whether the driver has a patient's license or not? Improving road safety certainly needs and needs to be a priority, because every saved human life and every step into safety and the smallest one is still positive. In view of the above, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to Road Safety with the minimum observations made during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92540	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers will now speak the esteemed representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92541	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act certainly makes a step towards regulating traffic safety and reducing almost daily black statistics, although we have some observations. I hope they respect him. According to statistics, 275 people were killed in the first 10 months of 2021 in traffic accidents on Croatian roads, which is 54 people or 26% higher than in the same period in 2020. The most common causes of the accident were too much speed and alcohol. It is certainly good that the proposal for a new law increases the amount of penalties for non-adapted speed violations because we believe that the heights of penalties will, however, deter drivers from committing the offence. What I think is important is also that after more than two years of use on Croatian roads, electric romobiles are legalised and their participation in traffic is regulated. The regulation of the transport of these personal means of transport shall be aligned with a provision relating to the similar category of vehicle so far envisaged, mainly bicycles. We welcome and welcome the inclusion and definition of these relatively new environmentally-acceptable and increasingly numerous means of transport under the new law, and we are pleased that the proposal from the public debate for increasing the power of such vehicles from 0.25 kilowatt hours to 0.6, with a speed limit of 25 km/h. This regulation also made these vehicles functional for adults because they can overcome the corresponding rises. I consider it a violation of the responsibility of the driver of those vehicles, as well as the introduction of mandatory protective equipment that we have heard here today, and only for under 16 years seems more appropriate for us to foresee the obligation to wear helmets on all romobiles for all age groups as well as wearing mandatory reflective vests which should also be applied to bicycle drivers. On a daily basis, we witness that in traffic, such drivers are especially now inconspicuous, invisible, and on poorly lit roads, because neither bicycles, nor electric cars are generally equipped with adequate lighting, nor is it legally prescribed. It should also be more precise to define the movement of drivers of personal means of transport on pedestrian surfaces and on the condition that the safety of other road users is taken into account mainly by pedestrians, as this could become the wild west in the use of romobiles. The most controversial in the proposal for this law, despite the best intentions of the applicant, is an assessment of a part of the law relating to the regulation of the temporary incompetence of the driver. I can see that everyone actually has a lot of big remarks about it. In view of the fact that this proposal of the law, the responsibility for driving a vehicle during the period of incompetence is fully transferred to a family doctor, although it should be exclusively on the driver himself, such as in the event of a driving in an alcoholic state. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law states that the consequences of these changes will lead to the administrative dispensation of doctors and police officers, which certainly does not correspond to reality, given that doctors, except for the current obligation to report medically incompetent drivers, are also added a new obligation to report temporarily incompetent drivers in connection with which applications will have to be made, in particular, to take account of the duration of such incompetence. This would constitute an additional administrative burden on the doctor especially now during the pandemic and a significant increase in the number of treatments due to the effects of the pandemic of covid. In that article, in addition to existing driving obligations which are not capable of driving, an additional obligation has been introduced by the doctor to distinguish the condition which temporarily prevents the safe management of the vehicle from permanent conditions. On the other hand, selected doctors are not competent enough to decide these conditions at all, since this falls within the jurisdiction of medical work. In order to better regulate this section of the law, I support the measures proposed on behalf of the profession by the Medical Chamber and this is the following: reintroduction of compulsory health checks and further reduction of the age limit for carrying out compulsory health checks on 65 years of life as previously prescribed by the Road Safety Act of 2015. I believe that this would restore an important additional health control mechanism for motor vehicle management, especially in older generations. As far as the normative arrangement is concerned, I propose a step towards reporting on changes in the driver’s health status in such a way that the provisions of the Road Safety Act no longer require the doctor to report directly to the competent authority on all observed diseases or conditions of drivers affecting safe driving management. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The law in the future should contain only the obligation of the doctor to warn the patient, or the driver, of the observed change in health status and to record the warning given in his medical documentation. I'm primarily a patient who needs to take responsibility for his health. Non-compliance with the recommendations, and with the medical records of the physician, and in such a way as to implement the obligation imposed on him by Article 198. The law. The responsibility should also be for the informed patient to decide whether to follow that warning and refrain from driving the motor vehicle as long as the physician’s warning is recorded in the cardboard or would self-initiately, within the prescribed time limit, carry out a detailed medical examination for the purpose of removing any suspicion of his medical ability or in order to delete the registered warning in the e-cardon. I point out that the doctor’s obligation should be completed by recording the observed change in medical records in the patient’s e-cardon. I particularly find it inappropriate to punish only a doctor with fines in the event of a failure to report an observed change in his health. The decision on the way and conditions of access to data from the medical records should be primarily the result of the agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance where doctors should be directly involved in the reporting process itself, i.e. the delivery of notifications. All assumptions necessary for the delivery, i.e. the exchange of data, can be defined by means of appropriate additional amendments to the legal, sub-legislative rules governing the health checks of drivers and candidates for drivers. The problem of the current Road Safety Act as well as all other laws in the Republic of Croatia is not only in a particular lack of regulation, but often in an unconstitutional and inconsistent application of them, and I hope that this will not happen again after the proposed changes have been made. Because many of our laws are not bad, but in fact, the way we conduct them is often questioned. It's often campaigning. The best guarantee of road safety is the daily higher presence of police officers in terms of prevention, i.e. on the road, and the legislation on traffic security needs to be taken to the fullest extent possible by the profession and medical and transport, while the Ministry of Interior needs intensively to make this a historic transition for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92542	On behalf of the Association of State Movement Representatives will now speak a respected representative, if you'll excuse us before the Green-Left bloc club is spoken by the respected representative Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. So, therefore, the amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act that we are talking about today are problematic in several aspects. But they are far the most problematic when there is an effect that these changes have on the doctors of family medicine. Therefore, KOHOM spoke publicly, the representatives of the Croatian medical chamber spoke about it, the Croatian Medical Association of Work said. Despite their requests and appeals, however, you literally did not include any of the medical professions in the draft work group. Well, it's no wonder the proposed changes are actually quite scandalous. Therefore, the proposed changes actually mean that a family doctor is responsible for the person who should assess whether or not he is capable of managing motor vehicles each day during each examination. And then, if he accidentally assesses that there has been some change in health conditions that could potentially affect his ability to drive motor vehicles, immediately record that change through CESIH and de facto do the driver’s license to the person she examined. So this proposal is really scandalous, it's totally unacceptable because it won't lead to an increase in road safety, but rather the opposite. What will lead to patients not going to their family medicine doctors because they will know it can happen to them, will not report the health problems they have because they will know it can happen to them. They won't take therapy because they'll know it can happen to them. So you're actually going to cause these changes to drive us on the road people who are not being treated for certain conditions that affect their ability to drive, so while we're not ignoring you're going to lead to significant bad outcomes of treatment because people aren't going to go to their doctors when they should and in time. So that's the first thing. In addition, this law and amendments to the laws are passed without Croatia having clearly defined criteria for what conditions, which diseases, which treatments, which changes in health conditions affect one's ability to drive, but all of which you leave to the subjective assessment of family medicine doctors who have not studied for it in their specialization. This first means that we will have a completely unequal treatment, because one doctor will evaluate it this way and the other one on the basis of his subjective assessment. And more private doctors, say, you didn't commit to what actually means that those of our citizens who have money and are well-settled will be able to go and treat themselves with a private doctor, take treatment prescribed by a private doctor who doesn't have to and can't report it through CEZIH, and these poor, yes, they have to be treated and that's it. With all that you do with this Road Safety Act, you bring family medical doctors into a position of absolute legal uncertainty, because you put them in a situation where they must be held accountable for any situation in which a patient has committed a traffic violation, therefore, or has taken part in an accident. He could've been a misdemeanor, and the bogs could've been sued by the insurance companies, asked for damages, could've been sued by patients for not taking their driver's license, etc. So you bring family medicine doctors into a situation of difficult and unacceptable conflict of interest to choose between their own safety, between your own profession, between a license and an objective assessment of their patient. It is not clear to me at all how this is possible and what the task force was doing when she was texting these amendments and supplementing this law. Otherwise, in the law itself, you already have the regulation to be able to manage, and I quote: “It is found in specialised institutions and companies in which specialists in medical work work work work work work. ” If this ability is determined by specific institutions, how is it possible that any subsequent temporary incompetence can be determined in the case of fractures and that the doctor of family medicine, therefore the breakdown is legally appropriate. For example, we have a professional truck driver who comes to his family medicine doctor because he's anxious and he's prescribed a diazepam. And the doctor of family medicine prescribed 5 milligrams of diazepas in the evening, but he realizes it's nice and he's a little quieter and he's taking the diazepas in the morning, and he might take two pills and make a car accident. And here it is, the doctor of family medicine didn't well estimate that the diazepam that could really affect someone's ability to drive, and the drinker doesn't know which two-digit percentage of our citizens, that this is responsible because he didn't write it down in CESH and reported it. Or Claritin mentioned by his colleague Pavic. Or the doctor of family medicine will be terribly careful, and then he will report it to CEZIH and take away our anxiety professional driver’s driver’s license and automatic right to work. And then what? He can't work. Yeah, you said then he could ask for an extraordinary review of which of course he must wait for a while and not only that, but he must, of course, pay for that extraordinary examination of the patient. So that's what you do with a solution like this. No country in the EU has such a solution. This is where the UK was mentioned as an example of good practice. So they have an agency made by licensed doctors who assess ability or incompetence to drive, and patients themselves must apply to the agency. So, they are not reported by their family doctors, but there are clear rules, clear criteria, it is clear which conditions, which changes in therapy, which you have to report and then some licensed doctor who is only involved in assessing whether or not you can drive. It's an example of good practice. This is an absolute example of terrible practice. What I didn't understand was when I read those amendments to the law and talked to a sea of colleagues who came to me, but I believe all the other clubs were why? What motivation was there for this because it's a terrible thing, and it's going to bring a series of problems. And then I came up with one single possible explanation. Namely, until now, family medicine doctors had to report any changes to the MUP, and then the MUP would have to send such patients for review, and then if it turned out that the patient was really incompetent to drive, he would have paid for the checkup, and if the patient was able to drive, then the MUP would have paid for the review. And that's how it worked. And then in 2019, there were about 1,000 such applications they told me annually. And then in 2019, there was a car accident at St. Helena's house where the driver under the influence of opiates crashed from 125 km/h into a car where the three-member family was sitting. And what happened after that? Literally the same day the police conducted a search of a doctor's doctor's doctor's doctor's doctor's doctor's doctor's medicine, although he had previously been treated on Rab and what I know is where. And I think she got a criminal sentence before that man who did it was even sanctioned in any way. So even after that, the doctors of family medicine who know everyone about this case started mass reporting to their patients to the MUP, because of course no one wants that kind of situation to happen to him, that some of their patients ha i mean drinking, sniffing out coke, I don't know if they have any kind of consciousness disorder and that the police are coming to the office. And then you got a sea of applications and this problem was supposed to be solved, because all these applications went to extraordinary checks and most of these reports on extraordinary reviews would prove that people were still able to drive. And then the M.O.P. would pay for those checks. So the MUP decided to solve this problem and the MUP solved this problem, but you solved it in a way that you solved it through a family doctor, that you solved it over the back of patients, through the trust between doctors and patients, which is a basic prerequisite for good treatment. And what is most important is that you solved it at the expense of safety on Croatian roads, not for the safety of what should be the intensity of these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92544	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak. He's gone? He loses his right to speak, and then the next club will be that IDS. He'll speak to the esteemed representative Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, as more areas and more problems have already been said here. There are good examples, but we're here as an opposition to point out those who aren't that good. The problems with the amendments in question are very long. In part, they were caused by the abolition of periodic examinations of amateur category drivers 2013. In 2019, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health proposed to reintroduce the review, but due to political intervention and changes disappeared from the final text of the amendments, regardless of how they defended their proposal for the reintroduction of periodic reviews in the e-consultation carried out by both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health. Today, in the Assembly, amendments to the law in question, in which not only there is no reintroduction of periodic checks, are introduced and a somewhat strange provision is introduced on the so-called. a warning to drivers by a doctor whose driver is currently suspended by a driving licence. And a lot of them talked about it today. There were also heated debates, many of these polemics were public, arguments were presented by the profession, but the promoter proved in some way unprepared for this collaboration with representatives of various professions. But let's take the turn. In the drafting of the law in question, neither appointed members of the working group were hired, and I had previously asked in the replica the working groups and the professional medical associations of the Croatian Medical Assembly and other associations of doctors whose domain is the identification of the driver’s health skills. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the laws concerning the identification and/or suspension of the driver’s health skills do not have a professional medical basis but are exclusively for persons from the proposing ranks. Although the promoter states that the amendments in question have been made by the employees of the Ministry of Health, but with due respect, the administrations in the health care sector is not a medical profession and the improvement of road safety cannot certainly be achieved if medical professions are excluded from making changes to the law to determine the health capacity of the driver. Furthermore, there is no indication of the change in the health status of the driver that affects the safety of the motor vehicle, nor is there a way of informing the competent police offices. It is also unclear to have an incompletely reasoned procedure and deadlines for determining the driver’s health capability which has been established that he is temporarily unable to operate a motor vehicle and which is not satisfied with that warning. The so-called warning enters into force immediately, becomes visible in the central health information system of the Republic of Croatia, so-called ‘RH’. CEZIH, it's becoming visible to the police. The driver is currently in breach if he drives the motor vehicle. Professional drivers shall not be able to carry out work at their workplace as a result of a warning issued, and by issuing that warning to persons who are professional drivers shall currently be limited to the constitutional right to work and the right to be available to the workplace defined in Article 54. The Constitution of the It is then stated the term so-called. the chosen doctor. The question is, how and how will patients be warned, all of them so-called. unselected doctors, such as hospital, non-patient specialists, all those who are not selected doctors of family medicine, gynecology, dentistry and who do not have access to CEZIH. CEZIH has not been able to access specialists of medical work that determine the health skills of the driver, and on the other hand it is made possible for the members of the MUP. We point to an indication of the term so-called. justifiable doubts giving police members the right to derivate the assessment of the driver’s medical ability established by the competent specialist in medical work and consular associates on the basis of anonymous and adversative suspicion. I don't know if there's any other legal regulations in this country that doubt the doctor's decision on the so-called. the established suspicions of members of the police, and that is why further procedures are required to be carried out and cause additional costs to be incurred by the holders of the health certificate to the review of the second-degree commission. What's particularly worrying about us who think and those who don't live in larger urban areas and who don't have access to public transportation is that by issuing so-called. warnings on the change of health to the driver’s licence give rise to additional costs and procedures caused by restrictions on mobility. In the explanation of the legislator's amendment to the law, it says that the amendments are intended to achieve and save for drivers, but it is not only clear to us how when it says that the compensation for the health examination of drivers who are dissatisfied with the warning of the change in wages is the same driver. The bill also introduces the liability of the driver to whom a health change warning has been issued. It is not clear here within which time limit and which route the driver is entitled to appeal for the alert in question, which is currently losing the right to drive the motor vehicle. Co-ordination of Croatian Family Medicine KOHOM has suggested that the problem be resolved by informing the patient that the vehicle should not be managed by the doctor and the patient in such a way that the doctor knows the same thing in the medical documentation, and handing over the patient while only on the special request of police officers would the doctor be obliged to provide such notice or warning of insight. The patient himself, or the driver in that case, would have the possibility and responsibility to refrain from using the motor vehicle during the duration of the notice, or warning, just as it is obliged to do when there is an alcohol present in the blood. For example, the possibility of a subsequent address to the selected physician to control his medical condition and determine the suspension of the existence of a temporary condition or to initiate an extraordinary medical examination of his cost. And before the end, I have to mention this, and I've been offered more and more frequent violations and car accidents that are the cause and old drivers, especially those in recent years. Yes, we agree with statistics is such that younger drivers are the biggest problem, i.e. the most caused by traffic accidents, speed, alcohol, it's all clear, but we are increasingly witnessing people drivers in recent years, in the late years who are actually committing traffic violations. Unfortunately, and with tragic consequences, some of them, the proposed amendments to the law are not at all covered by the area of determining the health capabilities of older drivers and periodic checks of them. The subject area in the Republic of Croatia is inadequately regulated and is contrary to existing practice in the EU and to the proposed changes in existing legislation by the European Commission and the European Road Safety Agency. Whether thoughts continue to run away from that problem or at last take responsibility. Maybe it's a little awkward, but we shouldn't go so far as populists are concerned, but there are some things that need to be solved that need to be solved. If you sincerely intend to increase road safety, please accept, between the first and second readings of this bill, well-intentioned proposals that you hear here today or tonight from the debate in the Assembly, something that is not accepted from e-consultation and makes sense to look again, to include more professions, fewer policies, and to correct all the shortcomings in this bill because it will depend on road safety and therefore on human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92546	On behalf of the Representatives' Club "For Righteous Croatia" will speak the esteemed representative Miroslav Škoro, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92547	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate. I may be talking about some things that haven't been mentioned tonight so much, but I think they're the same thing we should work on when we talk about amendments and additions to this very important law. At the end of the line and the statistics you mention and one of the reasons why you should go into these changes and why you're saying that we don't need to increase the fine from 500 to 1000 kuna and exactly the fact that the statistical indicators are not good for us. So everything we do doesn't seem to produce enough results. I was at the very beginning when I replicated your opening statement asking how you were planning to measure those 25 allowed kilometers on a rhombus and you didn't give me an answer. And I'd just like to introduce you to the fact that, so we're talking about some kind of traffic that has a power of 0.6 kilowatts. Right? And you can't cross or have that much, so it's supposed to be 600 watts, and if you type into the search engine and you want to buy that already you can find out I don't know offroad electric romobiles that have twice a 1600 watts, so two times 1.6 kilowatts and that reach a speed of 100 km/h. That's true. So maybe the problem is somewhere else, maybe the source of the problem is somewhere else not in the sanctioning but in the fact that it's possible to buy a car that goes 100 kilometers per hour on the market. It's usually 40, 50 kilometers nothing controversial. So, what I find somewhat controversial is that the age limit for the management of personal means of transport is from 14 years to more. And there's this interesting thing I don't know that wearing a reflective vest at night is always a day in case of reduced visibility. Who decides what is reduced visibility? Good fog is reduced visibility, but reduced visibility can be for countless other reasons, it can be from a display located by the road as an ad pan. What may be important to say is these famous 14 years and there is no obstacle to anyone being involved in a car accident. The accident is called an accident because it's an accident, and they're 14 years old. We read in the paper that the case of cybercrime breaking into a situation where one person attacked a teleoper led to that person's looking for 500 thousand dollars in crypto currency, and the investigation found that the person was 14 years old. For 14 years, according to the Youth Courts Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2020, it is therefore a younger minor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law says that a minor who turned 14 at the time of the crime did not turn 16 in his life to be able to give him educational measures and precautions. So he can't be sent to prison for minors, and we can have very serious consequences. He can cause a car accident with no God's death. One of the colleagues in the ruling coalition mentioned the issue of insurance. I welcome that, and I think it's something that's been solved in Germany in a way that pays annually but not abnormal money like we pay in everything, but between 15 and 30 euros, it says in this document of yours. Driver training. So someone at age 14 takes that moving machine, so let's just move 25 kilometers per hour and he goes to traffic, he's a traffic participant. You've brought a lot of things to a limit, he has to when he gets to the pedestrian crossing to get down. Who's gonna introduce him to that? Will this child go to read this law? I assure you he won't. So that insurance and that education are important, because users of roads and traffic must undergo some kind of training. I have not seen that this law provides for some kind of training for those who can move up to a hundred miles an hour. What really fascinated me was actually happening on our board when we talked about an initiative to see what was going on with those standardized first aid boxes. This is amazing at that committee session itself, it is said that the lack of a first aid box or part of its contents as well as the flow of five years from production is no longer a reason for the vehicle not to satisfy the technical examination, as it is also considered a minor disadvantage that does not affect the safety of the vehicle in traffic and such a vehicle passes on to the technical examination. It's spoken and it's true, that's right. And I'm even okay with that. So, when it comes to the accident site and an unprofessional person who has passed a first - aid course may be better off not touching the unhappy, especially if he has some old first - aid kit that contains some kind of sterile Gaza that is increasingly non-sterile. And that's where I totally agree with you. But then the question arises, so why are we taking first aid? Which is why people who pay for a driving exam expensive in Croatia are sure to pay for it as a whole at least 7,000 kuna, basically I went through it a little bit. Class B category is 5600 kuna. Of which 1200 kuna goes to the state, it's VAT. Lectures from first aid, so 450 kuna is in a health care facility. The first aid test is 118.75 kuna. Why do we need that first aid? What's that for? So we don't have to have first aid, de facto, and even deiura, we can't provide first aid, but we have to pass first aid. So if we want to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, here's their initiative. Cut that commitment at all, let's introduce her I don't know her as a class that will be at high school level. That's the least of the problems. And speaking of these first aids and talking a lot about health care, you're talking about corridors serving vehicles, especially ambulances, fire departments, etc. Which, as I've driven a lot along European roads, is the usual thing. Every overpass has that sign and de facto as soon as it stops, as soon as what the Croat would say is what we're moving left and right and I welcome that decision. Because you say it yourself, statistically, has been proven to increase the possibility of coming to the scene by 40 percent. Have you considered what is happening in Croatian cities, especially in the city of Zagreb, is true and toast, with rebels or so on. No offense, don't take me wrong. Is these passengers, especially now in the city of Zagreb, looking like less mountains and certainly some former officials might send wiremen on them. Is there any chance these slow-downs are slowing down the ambulance by any chance? In order for an ambulance to get to me where I live, there must be at least 30 passengers. What's the speed of the ambulance? A very small one, and you need to get here in a hurry. And we'll open up on the highway corridors and make sure they pass quickly. But a man who's at risk at home, so doesn't he have the right to an ambulance, especially when he's in such an emergency and driving to a health care facility. What does that look like? I think you should think about it. But it seems to me no matter how much some don't like the fact that we have a subjective experience of a policeman as a way of measuring the movement of those vehicles. The cop goes and he says I think this goes more than 25 kilometers an hour. It's like that joke where a Russian cop stops an American, so they want to punish him. He says how you're gonna punish me you don't have radar? And then they tell him that, but we've got Aljosha's cargo yards that know it. And then they tell him, so here's a look, comrade Aljosa, some kind of drive a tent capitalist? He's showing off. And what's that? Wak. So, we're making fun of it because you yourself said a device to measure the movement of these romobiles is gone, and the subjective experience of the doctor is again an additional basis for corruption, clientism and crime because it will depend on the doctor whether or not to report you. We need to work on this law, I'm ready to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92548	The next club of representatives will be that of CENTRA and GLAS, the respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92549	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of amendments to the Road Safety Act. It's absolutely a law that's important, and I'm sorry that we're having this debate at 10 o'clock in the evening. I would rather rather we had some, had it been in a better time and had more opportunity to get involved in the debate for a few reasons. When I even analyze some law and prepare for discussion, I like numbers very much. So in 1979, in Croatia, 1605 of our inhabitants died. 40 years later or 2019. 297, and then when you see a little bit there in the '90s we were at 1,000, and then we were at 600, and then we were at 400 and now we're spinning in 2020. 237, 2021. 299, so somewhere around 300. Why is it so low? So exactly one detailed analysis can come up with why it's reduced. One reason is that roads are incomparably safer and more quality than they were, and each time they are safer and better quality and our roads are always and marked as particularly safe with tunnels and with everyone else. But it's going to be a topic of each other because cars are safer and because we have a sequence, we're all more stuck, we're tied up and we're stringed up. It's one of the reasons why I think it's important to talk about this law, that it's important to talk about this law really to talk about us as much as possible. One thing I'm going to point out, and I'm going to beg for it. So, the 2008 law There's been a lot of changes. There was also one decision of the Constitutional Court and one decision and a solution of the Constitutional Court and I think the time has come for you to make a new law next time. There are so many changes, and there's so much going on that you probably can't handle it. And these changes are real and complete, they regulate a series of things so I'm really sure the next time, so not now, but the next time you come, and you'll come because there will be certain needs, come with a new law. I want you to install everything you've got, because this law will no longer be able to handle anyone. When I talk about the dead on our roads, I find that comparison rather sad. In a year, so in 2021. 291 dead, approximately so many dead in a week on covid. Count that about 50, today it's 48 or 49. So, let's be about 45, 50 like that very much, that means in six days of covid or with a covid whatever you want to call it in the Republic of Croatia, people died as long as they die at the level of a year, and we need in law to have measures that are as small as possible and that's why it's important. So what I'm really going to insist on, I'm going to insist that next time there be one whole change. But what I'm going on, I'm going to go on two subjects, I'm going to refer to myself, or rather on three. One topic is where the secretary of state introduced what this amendment and the addition of the law applies, so there is traffic in a protected cultural and historical unit, and then the theme of parking in places where cars are filled would be to discuss it. Because if you can't park in parking lots, or places that are meant for vehicles that use, so people with disabilities, then it's the same situation for me. But okay, I'll let that go. Then it's connected to an automated vehicle that's passed us all under the radar, but first we have it in law because it's a fact. Two topics that this law opens and that really needs to be highlighted, and that is the role of a doctor of family medicine, and that is where I will refer in several sentences. So we never have, we don't know how to solve it, then we get into some things that are always problematic and debateable. When we didn't know how to solve one problem, then we transferred this problem to the communal directors, so the communal directors other than dealing with energy efficiency, dealing with whether or not someone has a board, whether or not someone has a terrace, a jarhead, a dog and a cat vaccination. So every time we didn't know that we switched it to communal directors. We had no idea that these were people in principle with medium - professional training and who could neither, nor knew, nor had time to deal with it. Now we've got a new fashion. Now we transfer everything to family medicine doctors, and then they need to keep different records, they have to test the talk about the crown. They must not know and vaccinate in houses, I don't know how to carry a tool with me. They have to do everything and deal with the whole administration except to deal with their patients, to those who come to them in the way they should be dealt with. I suggest that in the next, through some subsequent amendment to the law, doctors of family medicine are engaged in divorces. I don't see any reason why not, and about this best let everyone write... apaurin, he'll be without a driver's license, he won't be able to drive but he won't be upset. [[You can't hear it.]] [[What's wrong with you?]] You haven't stopped time for me, but I'm going to forgive you because I'm going to have an individual discussion. [[/Intruder Reiner: You're joking in your other workplace and not here. Please!]] So, let me finish the thought. They write apaurines for everyone, they say they prescribed apaurines, they can't drive, but they don't get nervous. They don't drive or get nervous. And I'm coming up with a topic that I'm extremely fond of, and it's good that this law regulates it, it's rhombus. Romobiles are a fact, romobiles people use. Romobiles aren't regulated in our legislation. So, we're a few months ago, there's one trafficker, so the man died because he was a blow to the rhombus and cars. Romobiles have different ways of resolving other countries' legislation. I got it, I got it, and now I've got an amendment to this Romobile Act. 23. January 2020. I got the government's opinion, so it's been two years saying that my request is not accepted because I wasn't surprised. Because one whole solution is being done, and it's a good thing we got that solution. But it's not good that we got it this way defined. What we need to define when it comes to romobiles. We have to define, so they're small electric vehicles. We need to define the maximum speeds that must be, we need to define the powers of units of local self-government because they have to do with parking accommodation and other things, we need to define the obligation to use reflective vest lights, the obligation to use a helmet, the places where these romobiles can move. So these are basic things that must be defined. I'm not going to say that I've defined it through my amendment to the law. In some things we match, but in some things we don't. And I'm taking the opportunity to point out the need to define it, the need to think about defining it and somehow different. We always have amendments that refuse opposition, but at least we've done the job we need. So, where do people use romobiles today and move? On footpaths. Today, moving on your rhombus is like walking because we don't have it defined in the legislation. So, they get up today, we have any idea, we have a sidewalk, we have a stake. The sidewalk uses pedestrians, the wheel uses traffic, so traffic, no matter how. So that's the basic definition that I was still learning in the last century in the last state, in college when we even defined the way it was. Then we introduced the theme of hiking trails. We're walking trails today where we cut the sidewalk, even part of the hiking trail. See in Zagreb how many times you have a problem as a pedestrian with a part that uses a cyclist who is not guilty, who walks, the cycling trail I apologize. I think I said in the enthusiasm of fighting the hiking path of a cyclist. And you have a part of the stake that's just as used as a bike path. I'm sure of one thing, that one speed of a romobile can be when he uses a piece of the sidewalk, because that part of the sidewalk uses a pedestrian, and it's part of the bike path that will be used by the romobile, that there's one speed, and that the other speed that can be when it's on the wheel, so the wheel uses all the other vehicles, and the part of the wheel is a separate cycling path. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have very cyclist paths that are particularly defined. That's what the Netherlands and some other countries have, and there should be a third speed because then there's just a cyclist and a rhombus. So you have to systematically access it. I'm gonna stop now because I've already spent time, but I've had something stolen there, and I'm gonna spend the rest of the rest of my life through an individual discussion just about the rhombus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92550	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent MPs will now speak the esteemed representative Predrag Štromar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. Although these changes primarily relate to the addition of laws to new provisions defining a separate category of electric vehicle such as electric romobiles and monocycles, it is certainly important to stress that these changes are another important step in strengthening road safety. Many have mentioned the figures that have so far looked, and in the past 10 years, 3324 people have been killed in traffic accidents in Croatia, and more than 144 000 people have been injured. According to statistical indicators, 291 people were killed in car accidents in 2021, which is 54 people or 22.8% more compared to the year before. Car accidents are, however, the leading cause of death for children and young people aged 5 to 29, and the eighth cause of death worldwide for people of all ages. More than half of all fatalities in traffic accidents are now quite mentioned pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists who are still often neglected about traffic safety, so I find it extremely important to support these proposed changes and complements as they go towards strengthening road safety. Although the law should primarily play its preventive and educational role in certain cases such as traffic where we want to avoid black statistics he must obviously have and take over and repressive functions. And the latest amendments to the laws imposed by dragon penalties have not achieved the desired goal of reducing the number of people killed and killed in transport, from which we can conclude that measuring the level of punishment is not sufficient guarantee but must also follow an effective policy of implementing those same rules. Although the proposed solutions to these amendments to the law in the public debate have caused the disfavor of certain professional associations, I believe that a necessary and interdisciplinary approach is necessary in order to strengthen road safety and strong cooperation. Today we have much more opportunities than before interdisciplinary action, cooperation, exchange of information. There were also suggestions to do a lot more informational work than should be administratively bureaucratic than some people who do not actually have a basic job. The problem with traffic loss is the problem that concerns all of us. Only by working together can we contribute to reducing the number of people killed and killed in transport. And now I, unlike some others before who have spoken, suggest the applicant to reconsider the initiative once again that, in accordance with the practice of most EU members, the lack of a first aid box or the expiry of the first aid box is sanctioned in a way that makes it impossible to pass the technical examination until the vehicle is equipped with a first aid box with a valid expiry date. Namely, in our club, the HNS Club, HSU and independents, we believe that the absence of a first aid box or an invalidity of its contents, i.e. the expiry of the validity period, is a disadvantage that can lead to the risk of the disabled unless the first aid is provided in a timely manner or is provided with incorrect sanity material. I would point out that this opinion of the law in question is also suggested by the Ministry of Health, and it is sufficient that more than 144 people in the last ten years have been injured and are somehow given first aid. I would also like to draw attention, and already today many have also talked about this part of the amendments to the law relating to the mandatory wearing of helmets of persons under 16 years of age for drivers of personal means of transport. Namely, drivers older than 16 years can also be severely injured during driving such vehicles, so I appeal to the applicant to consider the possibility of removing any age-limits and introduce a general obligation to wear helmets for all drivers of personal means of transport. And we see today when we cross the street all those who use these means most of them and themselves without having to use the helmet. I'm sure it would be useful if everyone used it. Despite good traffic regulation, regulations continue to be insufficient to strengthen transport culture, education and prevention, and the personal responsibility of each transport participant because ultimately responsibility lies with each of us. It is not only the law, but it also needs education and strengthening of transport culture. The HNS, HSU and independent representatives will support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, and we hope that these suggestions will be found in the second reading of the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92552	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will now speak the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr. Mathaia. Taking into account the rapid progress of mankind’s technological achievements, we can see that there are increasingly different types of means of transport moving on electric power. Certain types of such means of transport are not categorized, and therefore there is no criminal liability for their users. Since new technologies appear on a daily basis, different problems arise with regard to the use of electronic means of transport by electronic means in an irresponsible and dangerous manner. This puts the safety of these drivers, other road users, especially pedestrians, at risk. Electric romobiles are now a walking aid, allowing them to move exclusively along the sidewalk and in the pedestrian zone. Therefore, there is a need to regulate the participation of such vehicles in transport. The applicable law does not specifically define categories for vehicles such as electric romobiles, electric motors, sugweys and the like. According to its own purpose, the motor vehicle is intended to move in traffic exclusively with a stake. In practice so far, because of the lack of regulation of persons using an electric romobil or other electric means of transport, it would be considered a pedestrian and should not be moved by a wheel but simply by foot. Their increasing use shows that the existing legislation has not fully regulated this issue in a satisfactory way, and the need to supplement it with new provisions defining a separate category of vehicle and their use. In addition, there is also a need and arrangements for the conditions to be met by drivers of such vehicles when operating vehicles as well as to determine the traffic areas on which to move. This problem is not only present in Croatia, but also exists in other EU Member States. For example, in Germany, the use of electric romobiles was regulated in 2019, where some basic rules were laid down. Allowed maximum speeds limited to 20 km/h shall not require a driving licence. The minimum age for the driver is 14 years and is allowed to move along the cycling routes. In the same year, the French authorities also stated in 2019, and these vehicles have a speed limit of not more than 25 km/h. There is also anticipating movement along the cycling routes, and there must be only one person on every romobile. In Italy it is allowed to move on bike paths, wheel and sidewalk 30 on the wheel, 20 on the bike path, and 6 km on the foot. A driver's licence is allowed to be entered into the vehicles of public passenger transport and no driver's licence is required to operate. Today there was already a word about it, so let's say in Spain it's mandatory insurance from the resulting damage to the third person, so it's something we'll certainly suggest that this one, ours, our amendments and the addition of the law, be included. And there is a possibility in some laws in Europe that cities bring their own local legislation. It is also not negligible because we have certain specificities, so you said yourself that Dubrovnik is allowed to regulate it in a different way. I think that's a good way to go. As regards the proposed amendments to the laws, a new category of vehicle which is required to prescribe vehicle speed and introduces the duties of drivers operating areas that are not on the road, to adapt the speed of movement to the circumstances and conditions of the area under which they move. There is also an increase in fines for the infringement of an unadjusted speed of movement, which is the most frequent cause of traffic accidents. The proposed changes will also allow sanctioning unconscious drivers who, in the intended places intended only for charge of electric vehicles, park vehicles that do not have that option. We can really see that from our lives every day when we go anywhere, so these places are occupied, and that's really something to do, that abuse really needs to be sanctioned. The relevant item in the amendments to the law is also the corridor for passing the emergency service vehicle which is intended for priority vehicles for passing the emergency service vehicle when the incident situation occurs. It's very important, it's very important to say hello. Because when you look at the works, it's actually up to that speed to finally save a human life. And statistics show that by introducing such a corridor to the site of the accident, it can be averaged four minutes earlier and the chance of survival of the victim by 40%. That's a hell of a lot. This is statistics, but it's a terrible lot. Four minutes of emergency, if we know that a man from a large blood vessel can bleed out in 3 minutes, that the arrival of 4 minutes is actually a key point for introducing this. If it were up to me, it would be a lot more drastic, but I understand that it's hard right now in this way to think about how I think as a healthcare worker, especially an ambulance that meets it often. In view of the forecasts and the increasing presence of autonomous vehicles, the concept of a fully automated vehicle is introduced. I think that's important, that's one step that will certainly wait for us, because from publicly available data, there's more and more information about drivers who manage vehicles of automated management in an unauthorized way. In fact, while driving, they don't sit behind the steering position, and in this way they can't actually take control of management in the event of an incident situation. The essential item is to regulate the administrative and financial reduction of the burden on the driver of the physician and the police administrations relating to the health checks of the driver. I've already listed in my replica to you, Mr. Secretary of State, who does all this, so these are the same people who have done this before, except now that they've reported it physically, in writing, and now they'll have the opportunity to show through the system that someone is temporarily banned from being granted a temporary ban. And that's why I think it's not an administrative burden, it's a discharge. I would always, as a doctor, rather not write papers and send papers, but, by clicking on one, determine that this is the way it is. Of course, this would all be done together. Indeed, changes to the Regulation on the health examination of drivers and candidates for drivers are necessary. And there I pray that it really be in the hands of the profession. It is only a profession that can say, meaning not you at the Ministry of the Interior, but indeed a profession at the Ministry of Health, doctors who do so of different professions that participate in bringing about changes and additions to that regulation that will precisely regulate the conditions in which a person can be, and that it needs to reduce his ability to drive a motor vehicle. It is something that, without it anyway, this law relating to that provision in the law cannot come to, cannot be consumed at all. The amendments, or to sum up, will regulate the participation in the transport of personal means of transport such as electric romobiles, allow and arrange their participation in road transport, regulate the right and way of use of the areas by which they can move, regulate the rules of view of the driver of those vehicles, enable the sanctioning of drivers who park vehicles in the intended places intended to charge electric vehicles, regulate provisions regarding the passing corridor of emergency services and reduce the administrative and financial burden on the driver of the doctor, and police administrations relating to medical examinations due to the temporary health status of the driver. All proposed amendments are of great benefit only by applying them for a further period, especially as regards the use of new technologies and the presence of new forms of means of transport. The essential item is the protection of the health and life of transport participants, which will increase by amending this law. To stress that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding in the state budget, and the HDZ Club will support these changes and complements in the first reading, noting that we really expect this to be heard many times today in these discussions, that the use and use of the first aid box is correctly regulated. That's very important. As a health care professional, I can certainly confirm a series of things that have been said so far that I'm not repeating myself because it's something that we're helping a man with. You know that there are procedures to be learned at first aid where in 3 minutes it either happened or it didn't happen. During that time an ambulance cannot come and therefore that box must be in its place, it must exist and must be filled with what it says and, of course, it must all be expensive within a period of time, so I ask you to consider it when preparing this law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92554	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats, and time will be shared by respected MPs Opačak Bilic and Sablar-Dračevac. First of all, the respected representative, Opačak Bilic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92555	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although the law changes by a number of questions and in several articles both acceptable and unacceptable and actually includes several segments we can say that, in fact, the core changes are two items. The first is the definition of the status of electric romobiles and their drivers and the second is the introduction of obligations to family doctors who are here we can say already overloaded additionally here they are under the obligation that if the driver has a temporary change of health, the family doctor must enter it into the central health information system and the information will be directly available to the MUP. I will say immediately that the Social Democrats Club welcomes in certain parts the proposed amendments to this law, but since there is a lot of change here we can discuss a lot. First of all, I will look back on positive changes such as the transport of electric cars, monocycles, segvias and similar devices, and as far as we know here we have heard today that the amendments to the law in this particular matter were proposed and discussed even in the previous assembly session and still on the initiative of colleague Mrak-Taritash, but then such a proposal here can be audiblely rejected by 88 votes, and here today changes in this matter come to us here with minimal differences from that proposal. But, well, I guess it's just a tradition with us, some tradition that doesn't matter how useful or not useful, it just has to do with where the proposal comes from. However, it is important that as soon as we regulate the use of this particular category of vehicle that has existed in most countries' legislation for a long time. I also see here in the very interpretation of the law exactly those ways of regulating the transport of small electric vehicles in other EU Member States. Let's say this Italian model is quite similar here to our bill, and as I said, it's finally the most important thing to achieve maximum traffic safety, and we can do it right now by regulating this issue, and especially since before, before, however, we currently have about 15,000 of these vehicles, and we see that from day to day, there are more of them, especially now with, I apologize, now with the coming of a better time, and these more, if we consider that indeed here these vehicles represent a modern solution for, and for urban congestion because they are also cheap mode of transport, and they do not pollute the environment. Excuse me, a little water. Time can only, it's a long day, we've talked a lot today. So like I said, these vehicles here are really cheap, cheap modes of transportation and they don't pollute the environment. So here's the part we welcome, of course we welcome the sanctioning of unconscious drivers who park cars in places designed to charge electric cars, and here's the fact that there are a lot of changes, and here we have some, for some maybe futuristic parts, we introduce the concept of a partial or even fully automated vehicle, and on the other hand here we introduce rules and provisions for live animal riders, and that's okay here. The minimum changes here are also for drivers of driving instructors and here are for vehicles with the advantage of passing, and given over 200 comments to the public, I am holding that today we should mention what we see as a topic for discussion, and this is a proposal to increase the amount of fines for a violation of unadjusted speed from 500 to 1,000 kuna, although if we take the general amounts of penalties for, penalties for traffic violations, specifically this minimal change, yet we are proposed to see ourselves further in articles, let's say Article. 112st century 11. Penalty of violations again with rigorous and extremely high penalties especially for our receipts, and indeed here I kept this mentioned because we know and at what level the standard of living is in Croatia. The aim of the Road Safety Act must exclusively be to ensure the safety of all road users, and we all agree here that this level of fine must act on deterring from committing violations, but we must also say that the aim of the law must not be to fill the state budget and without misreading it precisely because it is clear that in Croatia it is largely counting on the growth of income from the punishment of citizens, which is visible here from the budget, which is, in fact, expected from year to year, an increase in revenues of almost 100 million kuna and more. Here's to the conclusion, given the time. I said here's the core of the changes are two items of which one is the regulation of legal provisions for electric vehicles, and the other is the conversion of family doctors to cops, but here's what my colleague, Dr. Renata Sablar-Dračevac, will talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92556	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative of Sablar-Dračevac will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92557	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. So, I'm going to refer exclusively to the introduction of the driver's health skills for the safety management of motor vehicles and I'd just say first of all that we support the introduction of an emergency corridor. It is very good and therefore should be adapted to Croatian drivers. On this subject, the Committee on Health held a thematic session on the initiative of the doctor KHOM, and colleague Maric said a little more about the session itself and what we were talking about, so she would not stay there. In our e-consultation we received 2224 remarks, of which about 1/3 were directed by doctors and medical associations. But let's get back to the past. The law was passed in 2008, 9 amendments survived, and all 9 amendments included medical associations except in this 10th amendment. Here you included means commission which was formed on 19.10.1920, a representative from the Ministry of Health was appointed, and doctors object that it was an administrative employee who did not know the job itself in the profession. In addition, you used yourself, so when you refused the proposals, you used medical associations as a fig leaf to write that they were involved in the adoption of such a bill, and you know it, it's not like that. You didn't consult the profession, and it's not good because this time, of course, the profession wanted to warn you about some things that have been done wrong in the previous additions. Therefore, the coordination of Croatian Family Medicine Doctors has given you a letter from the State Secretary asking to be included in this implementation, or in itself, only the commission or preparation of this bill. In the signature below you stand, you personally rejected them and did not include them. This law is contradictory in one article it is clearly said that skills are needed, specialists in medicine work, or even a team sometimes, and in another law you claim that the pausal doctor of general medicine can assess whether, if the patient needs to be taken away from the driver's license. So your doctor takes your driver's license, he's a direct executioner, he's the one who, by clicking the mouse, takes away your driver's license. There's no problem at all except that you need that driver's license to work. You say that seven data are to be produced by the Ministry of Health and possibly medical examinations for drivers and driver's licenses, and this one, issuing driver's licenses, but of course you love the sublegal acts instead of having prepared it, that you have done it, that you have agreed within the law, that you have allowed the citizens to see it, to say, that they comment on the whole situation, not that you brought us into a position that one day the Ministry of Health will do it, and it is very important for us that we know exactly what the rules, how long the patient's license can be taken away, but even more important therapy, which is with therapy. So, let's say I prescribe to my hypnotic patients, and what if he drinks hypnotics at some other time, and not in the evening before he sleeps or drinks hypnotics, and he has to take someone to the hospital, so am I going to take his driver's license for that? Thank you. I'll continue the rest in an individual debate. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92558	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Andreja Marić through a video link, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92559	Thank you very much, here's what I said in the debate on behalf of the club in an individual debate. I'm going to look further at the problem of the driver's medical examination. Family medicine doctors point out that they certainly accept to play their part in road safety, but by warning the patient, not to forward that information further. According to the World Health Organization statistics, only 3% of the accident was caused by a changed health condition, and age groups generally refer to persons aged 20 to 30. which caused the accident due to speeding, drugs, alcohol, or mobile use in the car, so I immediately ask if we are doing enough to educate and prevent such cause of the accident? Furthermore, as I said, there is no list of diseases that would prohibit a patient from driving temporarily. This issue should certainly be resolved by sublegal acts or the health regulation... The driver and that should have been settled by now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This problem applies not only to doctors of family medicine but also to specialists and all other doctors who are affected by these legal changes. Also, representatives of the Croatian Society of Medicine have actually expressed their disdain because they were not involved in the drafting of the bill as representatives of the profession. They draw attention to the fact that the introduction of the idea of a warning to be issued by the competent doctor in fact means the current suspension of the driver’s licence holder and this is a particular problem for professional drivers of B and C categories which are therefore deprived of the right to work and who have the right to complain about it, and the MUP for an extraordinary subject in this case does not bear the costs. There is no such law in other European countries. Again, I point out the example of France that has a list of medicinal products that are marked with red, yellow and green marks, so why not take an example from other countries where this has been resolved. Furthermore, the problem is that there must actually be statistics on how much health has affected traffic safety. Such statistics, unfortunately, are not in our possession. What about driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs like cocaine? We believe that the solution is not to involve doctors in this law and punish them more to this, but rather to the personal responsibility of anyone who drives. The profession also proposes systematic checks at least every 5 years. and these solutions, such as drug traffic lights, should also be lifted by a misdemeanor provision that the doctor is responsible if he has not reported anyone. They are also very important from the Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights which also monitor the situation and say that in other European countries nowhere is such a law as this bill. They also say that doctors issue recommendations to patients, patients need to take care of it, certainly stress the right to privacy or to protect privacy of data and medical secrets, and in order to transmit the data to another party, it is necessary to seek the consent of patients. So all these things that I've just stated to the ministry should be taken care of. The question arises how they will warn patients in this way and not all of them are selected doctors, for example. Hospital... , hospital specialists, so those who are not selected are doctors of family gynecology, dentistry, or who do not have access to CEZIH, and in addition, access to CESIH is not possible for specialists of medical work who are in the extreme line again, and they are not given sufficient roles as they have so far and in the extreme line as they are competent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say here's an example, we hospital doctors fire a patient on Saturday and advise him to take normable during day two, and the patient doesn't immediately report to the doctor, but he's taking this normable by any pill, and even a little more than two or three days, so more than we've recommended, there's a car accident, who's going to be responsible, how are we going to report it? So where he is, why would there be the doctor's responsibility, not the patient himself, which we will, of course, warn about all of this. I also mentioned in the discussion on behalf of the club an example of Great Britain who really have very precisely worked out what conditions, which drugs affect the ability of this ride and there is a certain agency and patients actually have to stick to it all... /Intruder: Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92560	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92561	Thank you. In addition to the treatment of doctors in this bill, therefore, a family doctor who is deeply troubled and we hope that he will experience serious changes until the second reading. It is also necessary to highlight those changes concerning cyclists and issues of their rights and security on our roads. The overall impression is that these changes do not in any way promote or encourage cycling, do not repair the disputed places in the law, but in fact deepen the troublesome position of cyclists who are mostly riding on our roads by choice to ride a bike safely, but illegally or ride a bicycle under the law to risk a living head. For example, in previous laws, it was clear that the driver of a motor vehicle who cuts off a bike track or lane which is provided along a wheel which is bound to miss bikes moving along a bike path or lane in the same direction or opposite direction. However, according to current laws, it was very expensive to take advantage of the driver of bicycles or romobiles when turning over a cycling crossing. It is, however, the most expensive violation that drivers can make to the detriment of bicycle drivers or romobiles. This situation is fully regulated and regulated, yet the MUP proposes to introduce additional provisions on the damage of bicycle and romobile drivers and that provision says that the driver of a bicycle or a personal means of transport moving along the bike path is obliged to pay attention to the distance and speed of the vehicle approaching him and to cross the wheel after he is convinced that he can do so in a safe manner. So, although we already have an article of the law that clearly follows the international principle and the rule of traffic that the vehicle that retains the direction of movement has an advantage over the one that turns, and when it crosses the road, it proposes a provision that creates legal uncertainty for the drivers of bicycles and romobiles on roads such as. The Zagreb Vukovar Avenues, where they keep their direction straight, move along a neatly marked area at the crossing and have a green light on, but the police will still be able to punish them further by the basis of this provision in case they are hit by a vehicle that took advantage of them. For example, the law states that when a vehicle encounters a marked pedestrian crossing, it must adapt speed and increase caution, but the same obligation by failing the MUP legislator is never prescribed for the crossing of the cycling path or lane. Then new amendments to the Road Safety Act prescribe that bicycle drivers are obliged to move along a cycling path or bike lane in the direction of movement, and if they do not exist as close as possible to the right edge of the stake. This change also goes to the heart of the safety of cyclists because cycling trails often do not exist, and the ones requested as close as possible to the right edge of the wheel is the most dangerous position to move on the road. There is gravel, glass and other waste, holes, shahts, the threat of parked cars, the threat of dangerous threatening when there is not enough space, less transparency in bandages, and why the legislator in this article does not allow the exception to the movement as close as possible to the right edge of the stake as predicted in the second place in the article. 47th for motor vehicle drivers in situations where keeping at the edge is dangerous. Then new amendments to the law prescribe that the driver of a bicycle and a personal means of transport moving along the cycling path is required before entering the road wheel which he intends to cross when the bike path across the wheel is not marked to stop the bike or the personal means of transport and push it as a pedestrian across the marked pedestrian crossing. This request is problematic and completely unnecessary. In fact, the legal situation in which the cycling path is interrupted at the pedestrian crossing, although it should be in continuity, is already addressed in a way that already requires cyclists to miss vehicles moving along the wheel. So, these additions and changes rather than encouraging cycling to reduce car traffic, for the purpose of reducing pollution, for the purpose of meeting environmental objectives, these changes further make it difficult for us to find a difficult, ungrateful and insecure position of cyclists on our roads anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92562	Stay here please, this one we have two replicas, is the first respected representative of Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92563	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, you have stated truly justified and beautiful that you are actually able to say the new obligations of cyclists in traffic not and their rights, so I am interested in your comment on the information that I have that actually has at all or very little participates in this coordination of the construction of a whole network of cycling trails by the Republic of Croatia that will be financed from the NPOO and in fact everything is left at the good will of cities and counties in coordination with the Ministry of Tourism or Croatian roads that recommend and watch where it can be reconstructed by road or build a new road in their jurisdiction to secure cycling routes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92564	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92565	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Yes, the problem of all of this that I've been saying so far about cycling is simply incomprehensible that still as the primary thing in the construction of transport infrastructure really takes the development as soon and as significantly as possible and as much as possible of cycling infrastructures both in cities and outside of them, because only by building infrastructure and organised transport and bicycles and romobiles will we be able to arrange and traffic by vehicle. Our pedestrians then really ensure that they are equally equal participants in this traffic. And as for this environmental, health protection, pollution, we're not talking about how much it's necessary and necessary and that's why it's in the recovery plan, but we'll see, hopefully it'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92566	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92567	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, therefore offered your last part or final words in an individual debate, I would like to point out once more or to another point. Our mouths are full of green development, green plan, every time we use this pay phone or some other way about Croatia's awareness of Croatia, about the awareness of investment, I will not say that a certain amount of funds has been used and realised in certain parts of Croatia, which are in terms of tourism, green development and everything else, and then we come to reality. We come to a law like this where it's actually seen that it's, it's good to talk and it's good to say it, but somewhere where we can through some concrete law solve, make it possible and define it we don't. So, among other things, what we need to encourage is the development of cycling trails as if Croatia is about like Australia, so by bicycle and romobile you can't get between individual cities, you can if we have conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92568	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92569	Thank you. Thank you, too, dear colleague. We're old enough to remember it's 20, 25 years ago. associations, green associations that talked about cycling, waste management, green economies etc. They were considered strange to some, some so to tell the freaks, it was all something marginal completely not present and then it was a little late. We are now witnessing that in the mainstream policy we can talk about green policies, transitions, polluting ddd, we've come to theory, now it's just a question of whether we have enough brains and reason that it won't take another 20 years to practice then it'll be too late for you gentlemen to rule. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92570	Now she will speak to the respected representative Sabina Vosovac, the vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, the remaining few colleagues, co-workers and fellow vice president, if one of the objectives of this law achieves a set goal in national traffic security of road transport, which was adopted for the period from 2021 to 2030, and this is to reduce the number of victims by 50%, then it is logical that through this law solutions are sought in some way to improve, intensify speed control, mobile use and alcohol-related driving because, as we have already heard in previous discussions, 95% of the cases, road deaths are actually caused by these 3 factors. What's good and what needs to be regulated by law is the establishment of an emergency helicopter medical service, additional driving training after passing the driver's exam. It is equally commendable that new phenomena in traffic are regulated in some way. We've heard about electric romobiles, but also cars today that can be semi-manufactured in some way that you don't have to keep your hands on the wheel all the time, and today maybe some kind of, like I would say, robot cabs that have already been announced by some companies in a few years that will become our reality. And it's good to keep up with time and even in front of time. However, this law, as I have already mentioned in the replicas, there are some illogicalness, a space for further reflection, which is why we have regulated certain boundaries or protection, I think we all don't like to feel constricted on certain helmets, belts in cars, but if we protect cyclists and romobile drivers, then it's really not logical why we only protect those under 16 years old, and we don't protect those older ones as well. If the maximum speed is allowed to move that electric rhombus, and we are not meant to move in lanes or wheels where vehicles are moving, we are putting it in a walking zone or on bike tracks in some way, and we have very little coverage of the cycling trails. It may not be logical to treat the speed of the cyclists and the speed of pedestrians equally, and in some countries it is normal for the speed of electric romobiles to actually be reduced to the level of human steps in that pedestrian zone. And a third not less important question, which I would like to dedicate to a part of my debate, although my colleagues and colleagues have discussed a lot about it, was precisely this new moment in which it actually started in 2018, with the abolition of the mandatory driver's examination when they were 65 years old, but the obligation remains to have our chosen doctor or another doctor report to a more significant serious disease, severe health impairment, a difficult change of health, and that the review therefore means that he is carrying out medical work. However, with this law we now end it, doctors are no longer obliged to do so, the medical work becomes only a second-degree body, and in fact the doctor is asked to be the one to take away driver's license, driver's license, and in such a way as to suggest that no more notice is sent to him than that, whenever a patient visits the assessment of the ability and withdrawal of the ability of a potential driver, they take away the driver's license, they send it to the MUP or I see it through the system, and they are in principle brought into a very awkward situation. You cited the reason for this kind of treatment in administrative and financial discharge. What I see, and I trust doctors, there's no reason not to believe, that this won't lead to administrative discharge, but it will lead to financial discharge, and above all, the state and the MUP. So if this is the reason why family doctors are burdened with saving something from the state, then it just needs to be said clearly here. Why? I'm afraid this was offered by a 2019 event when St. Helena had one treatment-free addict stuck into a three-member family. After that merciless event, nothing actually happened to him, and the doctor was prosecuted plus damages, a fine of 5,000 kuna. After this unkind event, doctors become, go into panic and triple the number of applications they report to the MUP from 2,000 to 8,000 applications. Of those 8,000 applications, only 2,000 were the ones that resulted in the withdrawal of the driver's license, and 6,000 applications actually had to be paid by the state because they were unfounded. And if that's why you're deprived of actually these payments, these baseless reports where doctors are forced to fear the bones of this It happens in 2019 then it only needs to be said here honestly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92572	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Radolovic. Stay here. Stay here. Don't run away. This first one's respected MPs. Radolovic. [[- Yeah, she's got a 3.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92573	Your Honor, you mentioned it, so you asked me to ask you a helicopter service. I believe you remember that in 2015 the SDP government introduced a pilot helicopter service project and in fact there was no day that this service was not on the ground. So for 7 years, we still don't have in Croatia today, although virtually all EU countries are a little more developed and developed as we have helicopter service, and we know that fortunately we have a very divorced coast where during the tourist season there are a very large number of guests, that we have remote places and what you really think, please comment on whether and when this government will finally establish a helicopter service and an equal level of health care in all parts of our beautiful country, even though I've heard a few times in the last year and a half after this pay phone, it's only about to be ruled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92574	Thank you, even though helicopters don't exactly go down the roads, you'd better go and have some respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92575	Thank you very much. Well, I mentioned it, but they're part of traffic and literally life means saving lives. Well, look, this dynamic is what it is and it's simply unsatisfactory, a number of amendments have been written in this HS in those seven years to ensure exactly the one among other things and health care. There was no hearing, I hope that now will be just as simple as I don't like the way in determining the priorities of this government almost no area, but we are therefore obviously opposition, and they are ruling, and we are all going to pay in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92576	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're not talking about health care. We're gonna talk about school. Namely, they always say that repeating is the mother of wisdom, with first aid can be done very much, you will agree with me. Those to be taught first aid are the youngest since early age, almost since kindergarten. Why the schooling system is constantly resisting initiatives to introduce first aid as perhaps mandatory, it is absolutely optional that within some hours, these children would already learn the procedures of first aid in stopping the bleeding of everything they need and thus save people's lives. That would be me thinking a good preventive investment that would ultimately lead to some good results. Why won't that school accept it? I personally launched countless of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92578	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92579	So, as far as the mandatory subject is concerned, probably at this point, as long as we do not implement the Science and Technology Education Strategy in the way that it is designed to go to some nine-year compulsory basic education in which students would then disburse 30% of the content, that remaining content would in some way be "smacked" for nine years, and there would be plenty of room for creativity in each of the cases, but there would be plenty of room for some of the non-essential content that our students need to prepare for life, life and, among other things, this. And as for this part of the extracurricular activity, it can be done at local levels, but here's an attempt by the government, as I would say, to advocate the ruling majority to see what part of it can be incorporated. I don't think it's going to be real as a mandatory object, but as some sort of content you might actually succeed in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92580	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92581	Thank you. You were talking about family medicine doctors, Mr. Secretary of State said that on several occasions he spoke with exactly KHOM, so here I would remind you that three months ago in this assembly, the Health and Social Policy Committee had a thematic session on these amendments, and there were representatives of both KHOM and Croatian Medical Chambers and Croatian Medical Associations, all unanimously declared these changes extremely problematic and prayed to be involved in making changes and additions. However, to repeat, KoHOM has written a request for inclusion and received a written refusal. Well, here I would ask you nicely to comment because it reminds me of the reform of the social care system when the same profession was ruled out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92582	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92583	Thank you. And not just here, there are a lot of laws that come from serious reform laws that are actually done parallelly or born out of the profession which is not good at all. Normally, they're bitter, first because they didn't turn on, second because this law is actually unspeakable. So in this law, they are asked in some way to give away a medical secret, to violate the relationship of trust between a patient and a doctor, to re-expose a criminal perhaps even criminal responsibility. Furthermore, there is no case-law to show what will happen here. These patients can go uninterrupted to privates who do not have the obligation to apply as their family doctors, there are no rules on how for which disease, at which stage who will assess whether or not, what will happen to people whose job depends on driving permits, whether they are taking sick leave, how much, when the checkup is a lot of irresponsible issues because people have to do something tomorrow, and they don't actually have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92584	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92585	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You've brought out several important items, so I'd like to work them out a little bit more. The waist also says that driver checks older than 65 years should be restored. According to the data I have a review, it costs 350 kunas released from VAT which, however, in these periodical periods may still contribute to certain traffic safety every few years, and it is not such a big item. Another thing, no one takes care of the doctors of the 60+ family medicine who have made it very clear on many occasions that at the the thematic session, which in the public debates is precisely because of this fact that what the profession suggests is that they will be forced to retire. And third thing, you've made a good point about it already, and we've been saying that actually the MUP is reducing its costs in this way...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92586	By the way... [[Thank you. Honorable representative of the Voter.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92587	These first two were actually rhetorical issues and you're absolutely right when we talk about 65+ and the medical examinations of older people allegedly influenced by representatives of some political parties to be gone, and who advocated that particular category of citizens. And this third part, to be honest with you, is in our best interest to save because after that unfavorable event in 2019. Doctors were scared and were no longer reporting what they needed only difficult medical changes but began reporting and easier so that they would not pay as much as this doctor tomorrow. And there was suddenly this boom so you had out of a thousand applications you had suddenly in a year seven thousand applications and out of those seven thousand applications, eight, only two thousand were justified were the fear of doctors and it was the MUP all had to pay and now you're leaving only second-degree medicine actually work which will pay the patients and it's clear as a white day and it's not that problem and those people needed that clear word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92588	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92589	I thank the Vice President, the honourable secretary with his associates, associates, colleagues and two colleagues is present at this time in the hall. I'll keep going. I'll try to keep going where I left off. So where, where there's been a big problem, so we should have these sublegal acts here today because we'd have a much better insight, we wouldn't guess and we wouldn't assume. Because if we look at it, for example. The UK system here has clearly developed rules and these patients are therefore aware of their obligations, know what conditions they should report and yet some system of art is established to assess whether their ability to drive a motor vehicle is neat or not. So, clearly, we need to have a medical issue of diagnosis and the issue of medication, we need to make clear which medications are controversial, be careful some are taken once a day, and most often in the evening before bedtime, whether it is a problem, whether this patient needs to be taken away from him or not, because he has a problem with sleep and sleep or cannot sleep. And then I'm also wondering what we're doing with the medical work and the art of doing this specialist in medical work or some other specialists who are involved in the evaluation, there's also a psychiatrist and an occultist, a cardiologist, so there's a number of people who need to make a decision about whether someone can drive a motor vehicle or not. Now imagine, for example. We have a situation where psychiatric patients are sent for forced treatment and now that the MUP decides what is now all these complicated, enormous human rights, it will be enough for a doctor of general medicine to click on CEZIH to say a psychiatric patient needs forced hospitalisation because it endangers himself or others. I'm a cartoon now, but I'm telling you, you're entering an area that's problematic, you're disrupting the relationship between the patient and the doctor. It's a trust-based relationship. How someone will tell you their problems if they can't trust you when you're in a position, I'm looking at your associate more than you understand, this one when you're in a position to take away that man's driver's license you're an executioner. It's not our job, we're witches, we're assessing states, and then the system says that those in the system are in charge of whether someone stays without a driver's license or his driver's license stays. Then there is the problem that all aggression will then be directed towards doctors. You're gonna put a cop in front of a general medical doctor's office. Aggression will be highly directed at the doctor. And it's still very important to say that means you have violations here with, the penalty is from 1,500 to 5,000 kuna and the least evil is that punishment and it's the simplest thing to pay than the problem is that if you're punished by that provision, then you can run for example. The criminal responsibility of a doctor for unconscious treatment, therefore a civil suit can arise and can be financially charged by that doctor and more importantly, insurance companies are charged by doctors rather than by the perpetrators of a car accident. It's starting, it's going to be the Americanization of the system, and it's going to be more. So we can't let something like that happen. Yeah, well, in an article, in an article. So 233 [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92590	We've got replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92591	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Members, so here we are, 10 MPs or MPs, here tonight and we participate in different ways, and at least by attending, 40% of them are doctors, of us 10 is 40% doctors. And the main issue of the debate that we have, therefore, other than the rhombus and the theme of the rhombus which has one aspect is the topic and the problem of this law and doctors. I can't understand it, and I'll never understand that there wasn't enough power, energy and everything to sit down and think about what the best model was. So, what we've had a chance to hear and what we've all got as parliamentary representatives, I'm an architect, I'm not going to get into things that it's in, but there's something wrong. Something, I smiled and said so prescribe all the apaurines won't drive, but they won't get upset, I mean, but it's actually sarcasm and the inability to react to this. So, detect the problem and how to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92592	Thank you. Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92593	I thank you for asking. Definitely, apart from communication and conversation, we have nothing, but when we communicate, we need to hear from each other. If I am speaking and if no one is able to hear me and wishes absolutely to move their position, so it is not by chance that these different associations of doctors were not called into agreement at the MUP. Well, of course they were deliberately skipped because they knew what kind of problems they were going to be doing and what they were going to look for. They've been struggling with it for a long time, and we're definitely going to have this if this is how it's done, if you don't change this until the second reading, we're really going to have a lot of problems with this situation. We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92594	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92595	I'm so glad you brought up Great Britain as an example. Here I happen to have one copy here, so this was issued by their government actually by license agencies and drivers and vehicles and this is this guide for health professionals or actually doctors where up to in detail are simply prescribed protocols for absolutely almost any health problems of what kind of serious approach it is. And we're passing a law where from family doctors, family doctors, we actually do prophesies and cops, people we force to tell a secret doctor, to violate this relationship between patients and themselves professionals without actually knowing how to act so as not to make a mistake in the whole story, which, in what way, in which way, who controls them, what they subject themselves to, a lot of strangers, and a lot of responsibilities and obligations transferred to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92596	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92597	Yeah, thanks for asking. Yes, you have systems in which it is clearly defined, one of them is Great Britain and look at what the volume of that guide is if it is working out every situation. So there's a lot that needs to be assessed individually. It's an estimate of the one who's qualified to evaluate it. What would that look like? I'm a psychiatrist, I'm a psychotherapy therapist, and now I'm going to start acting out in court all of a sudden because it's lucrative, and I haven't been through education. So these people either have to be educated or the rules have to be clearly written or let's not do problems when we already have medicine that does it well, professionally and for many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92598	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92599	Thank you very much. Here's as well as a colleague of the Voice prepared this example from Great Britain I have it here, so then we can definitely give the secretary of state all these written documents if they don't know for themselves, so here's what the examples are out there in other regulated European countries. The second thing, we have already pointed out on several occasions that without the relevant regulations defining the specific condition of the disease, medicines that can affect the ability to drive, I don't think there's any speech in the application of this law. And even when such things are defined, how will you even as a doctor be hospitalized, do family knowledge at a given time whether you will compare the medicine, an example for... Five days, ten days, whether a patient will use it as advice or double the dose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, medicines do not work 24 hours, so that's the problem. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Sablar-Dračevac, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92600	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92601	Thank you for asking my colleagues. Look, I think it would be correct of the promoter that today came with this, it shouldn't have been sublegal acts, it should have been clear, transparent, it should have gone into public debate, it must have been known in advance. And if we had done so, surely the problems would be much less than they are right now. Of course, it will happen in some silence, without this stage, without being able to influence that rule or only those in the Ministry of Health will write it without consulting anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92602	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92603	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So when we, as opposition MPs, go out for this pay phone or make some suggestions, we know that these proposals will not be appreciated. And I, on several occasions from this pay phone, said the words try, it's not related to some kind of world view or anything, if not if you won't accept something. And here's February 16th, 2022 at 11:00 p.m. I can say that today I can show satisfaction with two things. One thing, imagine the government is to decide to reduce VAT to hygienic pads or menstrual supplies from 25 to 13%, but we'll get to zero, we won't give up. And second thing, look at the wonders finally came the bill where the theme of the rhombus is regulated, and now I'm going to talk about the rhombus. The theme of the rhombus isn't since yesterday, the theme of the rhombus has been for some time. We had a couple of months back in traffic. A man died on a rhombus. That's when I said regulate because it's not a regulated area, regulate it, don't let someone next, what we need someone to die for, and then we don't know where to go and we say it should be regulated and the government decided to regulate it in a certain way. And I will use this individual debate for concrete ideas and concrete proposals. First thing, you have to define wearing a helmet, you can't define wearing a helmet for up to 16 years. Everyone who rides a rhombus or uses a rhombus has 16 or 66 have to wear a helmet. I was recently at home by the lady's, the lady I found her or she was killed by a man who was driving a car that was over 70, and she was around somewhere, she had bloody knees and nothing terrible, but that's the fact we had. So that's the first thing to do, and if that, I'm deeply hoping that by the second reading you'll really define it that way, so there won't be any need for an amendment, and then once you're aware you come here with that amendment and then I feel like my mom who told me 100 times in my life, I told you and I'm trying not to say it, but now I'm already in this situation. The second thing, that's what the distinguished representative said when she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, she said the question of compulsory insurance. I hope it's going to be the activity of the HDZ colleagues, so it's going to be defined here. And the third thing to do. So we have traffic surfaces that can be driven by romobiles and other vehicles, legposts or sidewalks, cycling trails and lanes and stakes. So today they move, move, some move on their knees, some move on the sidewalks, and some move on the bike tracks or lanes. When they move on the bike tracks and tracks they move on bicycles, when they move on the sidewalks with pedestrians, and when they move on their knees, then they move on the track, i.e. the bike track, and we need to define, or you need to define the law of different speeds that can be moved. When you explained the law in the explanation, it accurately states that some countries have regulated and have regulated different speeds. Let's regulate it because the fact that romobiles are moving there, that's a fact that you can't ignore, let's regulate it. Similarly, it would be extremely good to regulate the disposal or parking of those types of vehicles if rented as a car car, therefore the practice of large European cities alike. And I'll, what I'm reading from the paper is what the government wrote me in response when I went with the bill, which should be regulated in more detail. So now I'm using that memo to repeat what I should do again. So, if we should, then when I wrote the bill, then I'm sure we should regulate it now that the government gave it because it pointed to those, these things, that problem. And he says that it is equally necessary to define that it would be good to define the method of recording, reporting and marking. What I think should be regulated by three things, which is mandatory wearing a helmet, a subject like I already said mandatory insurance and defining the speeds that I can move, and then in the second phase, you'll see what experiences are and regulate some other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92604	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92605	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I apologize immediately to you and to everyone here for not wanting to have your particular discussion right now, but since it's my last chance, and I think it's important to say, we are testifying, and we know that we are missing a doctor of family medicine, we know that the average year is 52 family doctors, we know that 33% is over 60 years old. These changes to the law that put on doctors general medicine something that is totally unacceptable with their work because there are doctors in medical work, and since we don't have them to predict that we will have them even less because who will generally be given to family medicine doctors under such conditions. This law. Well, I'm sorry to bother you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92606	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92607	Thank you very much. So, it's already late, we're going to the next day, so maybe I'll make a little joke. Today is an interesting day for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. We had two points related to education and the other, so one was vocational education and the other was related to the recognition of diploma, so maybe that's the solution. It may be through this recognition that we will really open up and have a theme that comes to us and some other people from some other countries, but really it's just a joke or in the context that it is. I can't understand, I really can't understand that he's not able to sit at the table and that he's not able to at the table try to solve that problem. If everyone points out that's the problem, they're not all silly. So, there's a problem, I deliberately in the replica told me at this point we still have 40% of us who are parliamentary representatives that we're discussing are doctors. It's supposed to be a problem, it's been suggested that this has to be solved as though it doesn't want to be solved out of spite, I don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92608	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92609	... Vice President, my colleague, Mr. Taritash, I am absolutely in favour of the helmet for over 16 years. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] It doesn't matter if you hit your head when you're 14 years old or hit your head when you're 45, and it's even more dangerous when you're 70 because the elasticity of falling so easily occurs. So that's what I did on the board that I took part in, and I made it clear that as a nurse and the one who sees a lot of it as an ambulance, so it's still and we should all wear a helmet. I think that's quite all right. I agree equally with you about insurance, which is something I really need and I don't agree with many times, but this time I agree with your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92610	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92611	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is somehow your debate, or your replica, or better said conclusion, of the hope that this will be regulated. I have to, I'm going to use this and I'm going to say the situation on one committee was a draft law given by the government, and I now have the same bill that I had in my former assembly of law-altering parliaments that exclusively applies to romobiles. And now we're having a discussion on the board, and now we're discussing, among other things, the subject of wearing a helmet. In my proposal, wearing a helmet is mandatory regardless of the age. The government's proposal includes wearing a helmet for up to 16 years. And now that I'm the promoter, the board members are arguing and you know there's a vote and you know how to vote. It votes for the government's bill of law for, and mine is rejected, and we discussed the helmet and the problem of wearing a helmet, and we all agreed that it should be. I hope we can make it right by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92612	Dear representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92613	Thank you, dear Vice President. So in order for you to continue this answer, I'm going to ask you again a little bit about helmets. Here's what you said yourself, actually, a colleague here and the ruling party says she is, that everyone wears helmets, so what happened on that committee. Do they just have to nod their heads when this opposition makes a suggestion because I really don't understand why you think they didn't put their helmets on right away? Does it actually cost them anything as a government? Whether they are constantly afraid of any financial resources that will have to be provided in the state budget because I really don't see any obstacle, so users will finance their own helmets, and for the ruling nothing bad will happen except to save a few people's lives. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92614	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a respected representative of the coat of arms, Grba Bujevic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 238, let a colleague deal with his party, his interests, and his thoughts. It's not hers to even think about what HDZ is doing and what HDZ thinks. My colleagues, mind your own business and do not provoke at this time, we are here constructively to contribute to the development of all that human lives depend on. And stop having fun.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92616	Well, of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning of this, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92617	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238, I'll just say that my colleague cared about human lives then she would vote in favour of her colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash, and she would support that everyone involved in the transport of electric romobiles must wear helmets, and she would not raise her hand the way they tell her from Mark's square only on the opposite side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92618	Excellent, on the basis of Article 241(1), I express the measure of distance from the session for today's session. Please step outside. Honorable representative Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92619	Thank you very much. So, I'll try to respond to the replica she was on and the theme is wearing a helmet. You just have to be very persistent and you have to insist strongly and you have to speak very strongly, if you are very persistent then you have to endure a debate where you are told that VAT on hygienic cartridges should not be reduced, you are told that hygienic cartridges with lavender, rose and everything else and then you experience very quickly 2 months after that VAT is reduced from 25% to 13% and I repeat, we will come to zero. Equally related to the rhombus, you have to be patient that someone is discussing and saying that, you should wear helmets and everything else, and then when the vote is against it, but we will come to this and in this and in the second reading there will be helmets and there will be insurance and at some point there will be a defined way of driving along the sidewalk, along the walking path, we will also come up to the fact that some other things may have to be needed for the rom mobiles. We just have to be persistent and patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92620	Finally, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92621	Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear Vice President. Here's a few finals...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92622	Let's calm down because there's two and a half of you and you're still talking from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92623	Please stop my time, please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92624	Well, you'll get time without worrying, you can talk to me about one in the night. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92625	If you have the strength, there's no problem. So, I'd like to finalise a few important things that have been discussed a lot, but I think we should repeat to the Secretary of State or to everyone who will work on hopefully improving for another reading. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act bring about changes that have a dramatic impact on family medicine doctors, or on the overall profession of the doctor and patient relationship, on the health of citizens who will avoid going to a doctor because of this law, and especially on all groups of professional drivers and persons operating motor vehicles. Unfortunately, virtually no proposal for an e-consultation profession has been accepted on this medical examination, and it is necessary to point out such shortcomings until it is concluded that the job is a specialist in family medicine, all other doctors, specialists in medical work, and what is the administrative work of the competent services. It is the primary and most important personal responsibility of the citizens who need it when their doctor indicates that their medical condition can pose a risk to them and other persons in traffic, and that they should not have to drive the same thing, stop driving temporarily, and in the event that they also violate and threaten themselves and other traffic users to actually bear that responsibility. The following thing certainly define a very clear rule before the second reading, own colleagues from professional associations and find common solutions because without the rule there is actually no quality law. There's already been a talk about a first aid box, and I would say that as a club, we feel that every vehicle really should have a standardized first aid box and that the contents of that box should be restored every 5 years. I've already said the same thing on behalf of the club that you should actually prescribe helmets for more than 16 years, not just 16 years old. up to 16 years. And at the end of the day, I ask the Secretary of State for a nice pen in your hand, and now write down what is.../incomprehensible/... here I will now.../incomprehensible/... repeat, Article 233., so in paragraph 3, when a permanent health condition is established, a damaged health condition that makes the driver no longer able to manage the vehicle, the doctor who has examined or treated the driver and the chosen doctor will issue a written warning to the driver so.../incomprehensible/... the profession advises and will inform the police administration or become in which driver has the registered residence or temporary or permanent residence. Furthermore, beyond Article 233(3), we propose to add new paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 to the article. in paragraph 4, it would be said that in situations where the driver is temporarily unable to manage the vehicle, the doctor who has carried out the examination or treated the driver would issue a written warning to the driver. Fifthly, the driver who has been given a written warning in St. 4 of this article must not drive a motor vehicle during the period of that warning and will not be referred to a re-medical, and the sixth, this warning is stored exclusively in medical documentation in writing, and the doctor who carried out the examination or treated the driver... the selected doctor is obliged to give a warning at the request of police officers... Seven, we suggest that a notice be made to the police administration or to the station in St. 3 of this article, which we propose to provide in the form of a form prescribed by the Minister's Rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Eight, then, that a fine of two to five thousand kunas should be fined for the violation of the persons who act contrary to the provisions of Article 5 of this Article and the ninth that the minister responsible for health care within three months, so no longer than three months of the entry into force of this law, shall be subject to a regulation defining the health status of the driver who shall permanently or temporarily disable the safe management of the vehicle. So here we have given the deadline of three months, although I underline that already the final provisions of that regulation should be defined before the second reading itself. So here's the final, listen to everything you've been told and at the the thematic session, in public consultation, what the profession, the patient associations, we from the opposition and in the end of the line here at this multi-hour debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92626	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mario Kapulica, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92627	Mr. Vice President of the HS, dear fellow MPs. We also had a meeting of the Assembly Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the eve of this debate, where we discussed the report of the Croatian Police for 2020. and then that segment relating to traffic safety and that report got a positive assessment, no one was against, there were several abstentions. And the general assessment is that police are doing their job well, making progress in terms of road safety. And now we have a debate in front of us about a law debated by the parent board in which individual MPs also presented their proposals, but we have put the law in the first reading procedure, so that all proposals and opinions that will then be discussed in the debate in this House could be presented. Therefore, we did not adopt or adopt the law on the board but let it go into procedure so that we could discuss it. So, when it comes to this subject, there are obligations that people in transport must adhere to and for all these obligations there are also some obstacles. You may have a passed driver's test, but that's not enough, you have to have a driver's license with you because if you don't have it, you'll pay the fine. You'll pay the fine and if you didn't get it on time, that doesn't mean you can't... That's right, that doesn't mean you're not capable of running a motor vehicle and of course if you're politicians then it'll be more than a fine, right, that's where we agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, we in the Road Safety Act have an obligation to have first aid in the vehicle, we know that it has to meet certain standards, we know that it has to be valid, but neither does anyone control whether we have any first aid or any sanctions being prevented. We at the HDZ Representatives Club hold that it is an obligation to have a first aid box without it being as serious as if we did not foresee who controls the obligation to use the safety belt in the vehicle or to prohibit the improper use of the mobile device without any sanctions being provided for or who actually controls it. Well, of course if we have a first aid box in the car or not, doesn't affect the safety of driving, doesn't affect the safety of driving or whether we have a triangle or a crane, it doesn't affect the safety of driving, but they need us not to drive safer than if something happens on the road. And tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who, on an annual level, are making it harder to suffer in car accidents, show that such situations are many. That is why we call on the promoter to seriously consider this topic, to correct this illogicality in which the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Red Cross and the Chamber of Commerce have already warned in some way. If road safety is one of the main tasks of the police, and it is, it does not only involve reducing the damage to the body, it does not only involve measures that will lead to the reduction of the number of people who are unhappy but also measures that will ensure that the injured are provided with the necessary first aid, which, as Col. Škoro said, and the condition for passing the driving exam. Anything that can reduce the tragic consequences when the accident has already occurred, and there will always be accidents, must not come out of the focus of our interest. So, we welcome the anti-recipient of new circumstances in transport, new means of transport, filling gaps in this sense, regulation without which we enter the area of uncertainty and uncertainty. That is why we call on the proposer to take advantage of this opportunity and resolve some fundamental issues that have still been left unsaid. We also appeal to the careful development of the rules that you will bring in cooperation with the Ministry of Health when it comes to declaring the temporary inability to drive. Because of the temporary medical condition that these are diseases, how long it takes to avoid having an unequal approach. This is important for every driver, let alone for professional drivers. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92628	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92629	Thank you again, Vice President. So here I'm going to take this opportunity of closing words and look back at these proposed changes. And here we have seen in the introductions of clubs that some of the representatives of the ruling coalition actually sent a message that part of the changes is unacceptable and here's to say so bad. Most of the time, this discomfort is based on part of the introduction of already overworked doctors of family medicine, the obligation to report patients who, for example, because of the use of certain medicines can say milder medicines, there is a possibility that they will actually be deprived of their right to drive, and we have heard earlier in replicas that this effect can have really very mild medicines that we use daily for allergies or headaches or even a cold or heartburn. And it is truly amazing that this proposal did not include a medical and medical profession, because the proposal is truly absurd in this part of which I have mentioned and in this form, and we are not satisfied with the answer that the diseases and medicines that will be covered by these provisions will only be adopted by a subsequent rule. Here and at the beginning we said about some changes, it is good that they finally came to the agenda of the assembly and that some questions are being arranged and here I will repeat that we welcome the intention to define a new category of vehicles that includes both electric romobiles and thus regulate and regulate the traffic of these alternative modes of transport. Finally, here I will refer to the issue of compensation insurance for third parties as regards the transport of these small electric vehicles, and here is the introduction of a helmet obligation for everyone and I hope that you will consider and respect such a proposal. The law is in the first reading, we believe and expect you to hear the voice of MPs here today from this High House and from this pay phone and you will respect our constructive and useful proposals and here I hope you will use the time until the second reading for further reflection and for further changes and that the final bill will be much more acceptable than this one now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-16-0.u92630	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., and the first item will be the Proposal for a Agriculture Strategy by 2030. Have a nice rest of the night. The session was interrupted at 11:35 p.m. In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will speak.
