ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u102736	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with the article. 226 ct. 22, section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition of the agenda of the 11th session from the 4th new point. Will you turn this off, please, because it's telling me? So the addition of the agenda consists of four points. You got them in the mail. Electronically. The proposal for supplementing the agenda has been submitted by means of electronic means. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. Art. 206 The Rules of Procedure lays down, you can exclude this, so the Rules of Procedure determines that, by an urgent procedure, laws are adopted that comply with EU documents, if requested and not voted on by the applicant. This is point 1 of the supplement submitted. So the point is the Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Investments with the final bill, which is in an emergency procedure, of course. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226 century 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare that this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure, if there are no... There isn't. Okay. Objections. Any of the representatives, therefore, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 2 of the proposed amendment, that is, the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with a final draft law? So it's an emergency procedure? Is there? There are no objections. Get into the agenda. So all these dots go into the agenda. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda were not included, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 11th session. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk club HDZ, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u102903	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will talk about something that in the sea of information that we receive on a daily basis may have been promoted by many, but of course not by insulting anyone, especially those who cannot answer that question. We are talking more and more in public, but we are also making legislative proposals in this House regarding the European Green Plan. Realising that Europe's future depends on a healthy planet, and also aware of the fact that climate change, industry has done its part and that we urgently need an answer to it. The EU has committed to achieving climate neutrality by the end of 2050 and fulfil its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Croatia has put great emphasis on the green economy through its National Development Strategy and National Resistance and Recovery Plan, so today I will talk about the first two competitions and projects from the Sustainable Waste Management Sector under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which were presented several days ago in the National and University Library. It consists of two calls, an invitation to build and equip a plant for the biological treatment of separately collected waste and a call for the recovery of closed landfills of non-hazardous waste worth 434 million kuna. It will co-finance the construction of a biowaste treatment plant and the disposal of waste disposal sites. The above call will co-finance the construction and equipment of the plant for biological processing and separate collection of biowaste amounting to HRK 354 million and 80 million for the recovery of closed landfills of non-hazardous waste is foreseen. The calls concern the construction of 7 plants by the third quarter of 2025 and the establishment of additional waste recycling facilities as well as the reduction of biowaste levels at landfills. When it comes to disposal recovery, the goal is to reduce minimum ten landfills by the second quarter of 2026. I would like to point out that the eligible applicants for the disposal of the local self-government unit are eligible. In 2020, a million 684 thousand 428 tonnes of municipal waste were generated in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 414 kg per capita of the Republic of Croatia, of which 686475 tonnes of municipal waste were collected from which 84% of the municipal waste was collected directly for use, which would mean 584 thousand tonnes. Therefore, the rate of separate waste collection was 41%. I expect further investment in our Waste Management Centre, because current dumps have very modest capacities. Any investment in the conservation of the environment will be paid twice as much. I commend, of course, a tender that will provide a significant part of the biowaste and meet one of the objectives of the waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia and the circular economy package. As part of the National Resilience and Recovery Plan for the Waste Management Sector, 1.25 billion kuna is available where sustainable waste management projects will be co-financed with 1.1 billion kuna and waste disposal projects totalling 150 million kuna. The general objective set by the European Commission in terms of Member States' transition to a circular economy is to reach 65% separately collected and recycled waste by 2035, while the amount of processed waste that can be delayed should not exceed 10%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is an opportunity for Croatia to become the leader in turning climate and environmental challenges into its own opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u102904	Thank you, too. And at the end of the day, Marina Opačak Bilic, the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103083	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, here I am today going to talk about one issue that is important for two groups of our citizens, on the one hand for people living in rural areas, and on the other hand, for entrepreneurs of carriers who, among other things, employ a large number of people. So let's start with the carrier. We know that the coronary crisis has affected all sectors in business and in society and that it has actually threatened the survival of many on the market, but the sector that has been particularly affected, was the passenger transport sector, and in addition to the accumulated losses and questionable business in the coronary crisis, they have already faced problems in business, for example, in the part of finding and retaining the workforce because we know that drivers are a deficiting interest, and in parallel to all this, they have been fighting what is crucial, for 2.5 years now and we do not see the will to resolve this issue more quickly. In fact, during a very difficult period of business for carriers last March, we brought in, then after an emergency procedure, amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, which included, among other things, the regulation of the question of public service contracts of this type of transport and the introduction of access to contracts based on a public tender, and then here we listened to promises that this issue would be resolved significantly faster and in a much better way. Whether this model is more quality, it's still a question, and if it's solved faster, unfortunately it's not. I personally called on the authorities to take advantage of the possibility offered by Regulation 1370 and to access the direct conclusion of the contract in order to actually start with public service contracts for the operation of county liner transport as soon as possible, which would in fact ensure the transparency and sustainability of this deal, especially in rural areas, but unfortunately neither this possibility was applied nor any other form of accession to the contract in almost all of Croatia was implemented, and here, the exception is only the two counties that managed to resolve this issue. By then, in March 2021, therefore, when the Law on Road Transport was amended, there was no political implementation of the contract at the time, so today 2.5 years the carriers have been working with uncertainty, appealing, seeking and calling here for access to the signing of the contract so that they can plan the future of their business, and they are here today, in a position to maintain non-performable lines and are in a position to really not have further investment and business plans because they cannot and do not know under what conditions they will continue to operate. So, apart from knowing that the past two years have been in a completely invisible situation, that most of them have been on the verge of collapse due to the reduced scope of the Covid job, of course, we now know the current state of fuel prices, and we do not really see the problem of maintaining public road transport, which is, in addition to them, in the significant interest of the entire social community and the Republic of Croatia, because in a good part it protects the areas that are less populated, more precisely, demographically devastation and this form of public transport, i.e., public service as such, in an important way, marks the quality of life in a given local area and does not need to repeat the importance of the actual transport of line in rural areas and how much contribution of quality of life these lines have to both the population and transporters. Where it is rightly stuck is not clear to anyone, and from all over Croatia, here, this issue has been resolved in only two counties. Even though the number of counties in the section is only yet, they point out that the implementation of the contract is possible and that it is feasible and therefore I appeal to the other counties and to the Ministry of Transport to see, examine, look at the model that these two counties have applied and implement it and spend it on the rest of Croatia. I appeal because indeed the way so far shows the indecision of public authorities in solving this problem, this issue, given that it is not being seen and that there is no answer when the time will come for the signing and conclusion of contracts which, as I said, are equally important for the development of rural areas, but also for the survival of our carriers that are on the verge of collapse. I call therefore on the competent authorities to prevent resolution this problem through protests that are already being announced [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103084	Thank you very much. And that concludes this, this point. First, a pleasant and comfortable weekend, I recommend, someone will now think I'm saying this, whole, has two MPs, right? A comfortable weekend, working, that's my recommendation, but you can take a bath if you're brave. We continue on Wednesday with the Proposal for a Law on Encouragement of Investments with a final proposal in the law, in an emergency procedure, first and second reading, that is Law No. 283. Last one out, turn off the light, thank you. Session interrupted at 12.35 hours. And as I announced this morning, we are now moving to deliver the position of club representatives. The first is Mrs. Marija Selak Rasludic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103141	I'm going to talk about the most important topic, at least from the existential perspective of our citizens. No, it's not the renaming of Titus's square that could expect us in the near future, and that might earn headlines, it's not even a referendum on abortions that many are currently wishing for, that's what might keep us quiet for now, and in the future it's going to be the focus of all our interests because we won't be able to avoid. Of course, it's a growing spiral of inflation that's completely out of control. First of all, it needs to be stressed that the current entry into the euro zone has become an ideological issue, and I stress ideologically because we are no longer talking about rational arguments that would justify entering the euro zone on the basis of economic facts rather than talking exclusively about the fact that it is someone's unequivocal political goal that completely ignores Croatian economic reality. So even though we now know that we have inflation for April higher than the EU average and far from those three countries dreamed with the lowest inflation rate to meet the criteria needed for the Eurozone, we continue to ignore this reality by moving towards the euro, and it is not a fact that it will only allow for further inflation to grow. Right now going into the euro zone is like lighting a match and keeping a match on the ground filled with gasoline. I'm sure inflation will burn further is just a matter of when and how much can be put out. The key problem of the Republic of Croatia is that it is not only waiting for us when we enter the euro zone, but we are witnessing it right now, so a complete lack of control mechanisms that would allow price growth to be monitored so that we can see now what many are doing so that they are not caught those months, two before entering the euro zone when it will have to be officially monitored. However, when we talk about control mechanisms, we need to know that they do not exist at any level that has taught us this budget rebalancing. Two items for which the most money has been made, health care 4 billion kuna and 1.7 billion kunas for stock stocks are those items whose consumption cannot be monitored because they continue to go beyond the public procurement under the code secret. So, our budget currently pours out the largest funds where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we of Parliament can't control it, and the control mechanisms for the prices that are growing completely and what may not have been deliberately communicated to the citizens, although it is said that our inflation rate is 9.4% When we talk about the inflation rate in that area regarding the life of every citizen of the Republic, therefore about food and drink, it is already almost 13%, and as far as the apartment, water and electricity is concerned, over 14%. So there's already a two-digit number. We're far above this 9.4% with a marked growth rate, especially when we're talking about food and drink. I want to take a special look at two things. It is necessary to design a model, and we at the MOST Club are actively working on which will allow the income growth of home budgets to grow because inflation cannot survive without it. And secondly, what we need are social shockers. On many occasions, I warned this speaker about the lack of a food bank, a distribution network that would allow excess food to reach the end-users. In Croatia, this is in theory, in the plan since 2019, it has still not been alive, and it is planned for mid 2023. Knowing that almost a third of the population is at risk of poverty and that this number, given the basic needs of life, is going to grow radically in the near future, we urgently need to reroute funds to food banks and other social shockers so that citizens survive the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103142	Thank you very much. And now, Mrs. President. Urša Raukar-Gamulin, who will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103229	Thank you. Minister Banozic broke the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was decided today by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. On 4 March 2022, the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the conflict of interest procedure, Marija Banozic. In the decision itself, the Committee established facts relating to the circumstances of the Minister's family, and we received information showing that they had never had a residence or residence in Zagreb, says Mrs. Novakovic. The commission has undoubtedly found that there are two decisions, one is that there is an apartment to be used by officials and another decision that one apartment will belong to Minister Banozic. Both decisions, interestingly, he signed. The decisions did not precede the decision of any commission that would decide which apartment would go to whom. Banozic has the right to an apartment, undoubtedly. But the fact that one of family members would sometimes come to Zagreb does not go into these criteria, so he obviously does not have the right to such a large apartment. The D.A. adds that about 300,000 kuna was invested in the apartment, part of the office, and part of the small inventory. Well, it would be interesting to see what little inventory our minister needs. And what, Minister Banozic will receive a fine of 7 thousand kuna. Well, I'd say it's pretty cheap 'cause it's nowhere to be determined that it has to get out of that apartment that you voluntarily past the criteria or any commission you've assigned. So, the minister still has no worries, calm and content living in an apartment that doesn't belong to him according to criteria, which he has assigned to himself, beyond any procedure, will pay for that fine and peaceful Bosnia, and the prime minister defends him and defends him. It explains what Banozic really meant, what Banozic said, what he meant and didn't say, what he said and didn't mean. So he tried to defend an indefensible statement about the hero of the Homeland War, Colonel Selak, whom the poor student, and an excellent shmuckler and a fraud, indirectly accused that he had rocketed the Vinkovci in '91. Mr Selak responded adequately, but it cannot be noticed that HDZ is otherwise soul and heart with defenders but only when these defenders are silent, without objections or when they are unspeakablely obeying orders and holding tents in front of the ministry, threaten the gas bottles of peaceful citizens of Zagreb. And where are these defenders now to defend the honor of their fellow brave pilot retired Colonel Selak? Where is it when it comes out in the media evidence that the current defence minister while he was the Minister of State Assets has damaged the budget for at least a few million? Where are the evidence of the minister's protection of those who haven't paid rent in years and earn good profits? And until when will our prime minister defend indefensible? How long? Banozic is a notorious smudger and a fraud and it is now completely clear. When I voiced hope that State Attorney Hrvoje Šipek would resist the pressures of his employer, Prime Minister Plenkovic, as well as such types as Banozic will arrest Parliament President Mr Jandrokovic attacked me not to seek arrests, although I only expressed hope that the arrests would take place. But if I don't upset him again, I won't mention just arrests, I'll say it like this. I hope now that the state's attorney is finally going to start reconnaissances and file a criminal report for our poor student, and for an excellent hide-and-seeker and a fraud. And we know where they'll end up eventually and how long. That's the question. As long as there are multiple affairs with ministers, as long as the prime minister and his adversaries defend indefensiblely, as long as this country is led by those who work provenly for their own and not for public benefit, those who do not launch any reforms but only reform their property and well-being. The election, the only solution is the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103230	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103304	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On yesterday, May 19th, exactly 31st, 1991. The Croatian people said that, in a historic referendum where more than 94% of those who went to the referendum decided to leave the then state-owned state of Yugoslavia and create an independent Croatian state with all rights belonging to national minorities, it was particularly highlighted in the referendum issue of the Serb national minority. Despite this historic referendum, however, Croatia had to develop its independence in the bloody Homeland War that ended in '95. The magnificent legitimate freeing actions "Blash" in May and "Storm" in August. After that, there is a peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunovre in '97. and '98. Croatia has lived for 25 years in the peace period in these 25 years, unfortunately, Croatia has not resolved a single open issue with neighbouring countries, especially with the Republic of Serbia, and this only shows that Croatia does not have diplomacy. In those 25 years, we have not solved a single border dispute with the Republic of Serbia, several thousand Croatian countries from the left bank of the Danube Vukovar Ada, the Sarengrad Ada, we have not solved the kidnapped cultural treasure of the Homeland War, we have failed to mark the concentration camps where our defenders were throughout the Republic of Serbia, we have failed to protect the rights of the Croatian national minority in Vojvodina despite the signed international agreement, we have failed to bring justice to thousands of those suspected and accused of war crimes that still walk freely throughout the Republic of Serbia today. I will not mention open issues with other neighbouring countries, especially with BiH. And as a result of this indemnity, as a result of this mildness, this milk, we have no diplomacy yesterday, and this is the first indictment of the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia for the alleged war crimes of Croatian officer pilots during the military-related action "Storm". And believe me, this won't be the first, unfortunately, this is just the first in line because what is the goal of the Republic of Serbia? Well, exactly what they've been doing for years, which is equating the victim and the aggressor. They want future generations of what happened in '91, '92, third, fourth and fifth years to learn that it's civil war, that we're all equally guilty, and that's unfortunately true. But this is the result of a catastrophic Croatian diplomacy that has not responded properly today. Unless we want justice, fate and history to be tailored by those who are in '91. We go on an armed raid on the Republic of Croatia then we trade, then let's say loudly and clearly not, then we use all the instruments that we have as a full member of the NATO alliance both the EU and our allies to bring our eastern neighbours in line for the future stability of this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103418	Mr Ante Prkačin will speak on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club and generally on his behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the assembly pay phone I've been going out to continue the controversy since yesterday, but in a divided mood. First of all, I'm sorry that Mr. Milosevic is not here because he warned me that he would answer me so that I would listen carefully, follow and tell him, I didn't want to use a false violation of the Rules of Procedure, said my colleague, I claim that everything you said was false, I won't tell you that you're lying, but you have the wrong facts, and I'm going to explain it all nicely to you tomorrow, or at least what I can catch in those five minutes. I actually liked that Mr. Milosevic had entered the ring because of his aggression and uncompromisingness. After one theater and poses favorably to Pupovac, but a very wise and cautious one uncompromising director comes in who I'm not sure is in this great, strong courage that has a cover in knowledge and mind. What do you think, Cipe, does he have, and so do you, Pavliček? Does Milosevic have any cover in knowledge and intelligence for what he authoritatively told me yesterday? So he takes advantage of the opportunity, and at first he attacks me fiercely, even in that attack and praises me a little bit. He's apostrophe of this kind of reciting poetry line of mine that I've been doing the reciting-song way with an unprecedented chauvinism in this House, and after that, he's moved on, so, I stopped. It's better for me to be attacked than for a man to come around. Please, in this House when it's being debated, at least me and myself taking care of the Parliament, if I have someone to pollemize, then listen carefully, then I know what he was saying earlier, then I fit my debate into what he was saying, but Mr. Milosevic speaks as if he's never heard anything from me. If he had listened to my argument 15 minutes before he did, he would have found answers, if he had now released what I had said before. There are answers for all of them for all of his enquiries and all of his claims. So, in the first place, he stopped at a contract with the Serbian Orthodox Church. He says I'm contesting that contract. So I doubted him for sure, so I didn't challenge him once. I didn't challenge him once, but a thousand times. And then he tells me, but that's how it's written, a contract with another 7.8 religious communities. Now there is something painful, which when I asked the same question to Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, his, believe it or not, I have to say this a little more quietly, his answer reminded me a little of what I heard in Milosevic, that the ministers would explain to me how these contracts were concluded, etc. Ma contracts are concluded, but you understand finally, everyone, all other religious communities are listed in the religious community records, and SPC in Croatia does not want to register. As the Croatian Orthodox Church of Croatian Ministers will not enter, so the SPC does not want to talk about it, it is the problem, so for God's sake, whether after so much time, after so much time, but hopefully now, all the point is in it. Well, then I'm told, and the best thing to do is not even read it, the contract with the Orthodox Church is disputed, so, well, it's declared hostile to its activity. After that Valerian memo that started in the 6th month. '41. Mr. where the clergy of SPC and Stevan Moljević and their team are 2 km away in Belgrade. Stevan Moljević made a memorandum of "Homogene Serbia" in which the plan is how to kill and slaughter Croats and Muslims, and the SPC in its memorandum of brain trust thinks that the better they lie, the better they mudgle Croatians in the world. Well, then come out what I've said three times, I've got to do it the fourth time. So, that's until the 6th month. '41. One hundred thousand Serbs killed in NDH. After 20 days, 180 thousand Serbs. In the 9th month. 300 thousand Serbs, end of 9. 350, well-known lies, which is why General Simovic resigns, cannot listen to this nonsense. Next, it's called HPC, no one dares mention it, I only mention it, but now we're going to say the important thing. This church is not founded but restored. The problem is in the following, which is Pavelic Had more written ministers than Plenkovic and they knew how to restore Orthodox [[Mr. Prickin, we've broken time again. Thank you.]] Church. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103555	Mrs. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103556	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I'm going to talk about medical interns. A topic I've talked about on many occasions, but now I have fresh information. So it's about those professions that are required to do internships after schooling. So, physotherapists, working therapists, pharmaceutical technicians, primates, sanitary engineers, etc. So for a year and a half, I've been working intensively on this problem since 10 months 2020 when these young people came to me for help, and right behind that question to the Minister's actuator, and to organise a meeting with the Minister and the interns. In 2020 there were only 170 seats for interns, we made it here for 2021. 2,000 seats. This year, for lack of money, 900 seats. So here I asked for a thematic session on the topic of healthcare trainees to be organised, and that was held on 25 February this year on the Committee on Health and Social Policy. A series of e-mails, parliamentary issues, phone calls, personal conversations, so a lot of hard work, and here's the information. Therefore, a letter from the Ministry of Health was sent to health institutions dated 12.1. of this year requesting that, in accordance with the needs of the health ministry, the tables of what is required should be kept in mind that 900 seats are provided for the whole country. Hospitals send their needs and filled tables to the ministry in the second and third months of this year. To this day, the Ministry of Health has not sent a reply to the institutions as much as their trainees are granted, it should be sent urgently so that institutions finally know how many places they belong and so they can call for tenders because young people are interested in institutions when they will compete and you can think of them as disappointed people, seeing that the ministry has not yet responded to the needs of institutions, and since January it is known that the total quota is 900 seats. However, here I am today confirmed where it is stuck. So, it's stuck with that government's decision to ban employment, and now it has to agree with the Ministry of Labour that this decision on the ban on employment does not apply to trainees, and that's then in a letter that goes here today, so it's written to me by health institutions not to be confused. I also asked for the approval of the number of traineeships to take care of the professions for which the greatest demand is like a physiotherapist. And here's the good news, too today confirmed, of those 900 seats 400 seats will be for the physical therapist. And certainly to minimise the number of nurses because they really don't need much. Last year, of those 2,000 seats, 675 seats were provided for nurses, which is old for the time being, and sisters no longer have to perform a traineeship. So, I asked to take care of it. Also, here I am confirmed that in a memo to go to health institutions today, I have also defined the criteria for admission to internships so that those who wait longer for the internship have an advantage or, say, if the evaluations are concerned, etc., I have also sent a letter to the Ministry from 2013 to be renewed and here I am confirmed to be doing so today. It should also be stated to healthcare institutions that, immediately after receiving the approved quotas, they should not be allowed to wait annually and to waste time. Here it goes in a memo to be sent today from the Ministry of Health Services. A few days ago, I also directed an amendment to the budget rebalancing to provide additional funds, 40 million kunas, to finance an additional 420 seats through the HZZ, these 900 places that are scheduled through HZZO are too small because many who wait for a traineeship wait 2-3 years and work out of the profession to survive and many are willing to quit just so they can join the internship. There are over 3,000 people waiting for the internship, and here I hope the amendment will be accepted. There is also another nebulose, that during the scheduled internship trainees must be at the employment office, and if they report to a private resident for as long as 6 months. That's also what I was talking to HZZ about, that actually that criterion is moving away. It was said to be at the end of the year on the board of directors, but here I am today confirmed by the ministry that they also sent a letter to HZZ to move that nebulous criterion. It is, of course, necessary to amend the current Regulation on standards for the reception of healthcare professionals on the traineeship. There's also a question of possible reduction of internships, abolishing the internships that some chambers are looking for, change of curiculum. And mostly some conclusion from the ministry that the ministry is working on a full and long-term resolution of this a multi-resor question. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you very much, here's hoping it will come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103557	Thank you, too. IDS and Mrs. Katarina Nemet will now perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Before the beginning of last year's tourist season, I warned from this place a very current problem, which unfortunately has not been solved until today, although a solution has been announced from the competent ministry. It is a problem with the difficulty of crossing the border on which the population of the border area and one part of Istria County, especially the day-to-day migrants from northern and northwest Istria, people who travel daily to work in Slovenia or Italy. Soon we are looking forward to a good tourist season, which means intense traffic at the border crossings, so these people who use them daily spend a lot of time on travel and waiting at the currently available border crossings. I then referred the issue directly to the Ministry of Interior and Minister Bozinovic. I was told that shortly after my inquiry, a meeting of representatives of the Croatian and Slovenian police was held at which I quote that at the border crossing of Plovani – Sečovje will try to find an alternative direction that would benefit the local population and thus avoid waiting in the wheel when arriving at the border crossing. In this connection, an alternative direction is defined, i.e. the access road towards the border crossing which is designated only for the traffic of the local population. It is said in the response then, adding that the border police of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia have agreed that border controls on the local population will be carried out in a maximum speedy manner to facilitate their border crossing. But here we are a year later before the new tourist season, but there is no alternative direction mentioned today. By noting that, even if it were realised, it would not be an appropriate solution because this alternative access road would only somewhat speed up the arrival of an existing border crossing and still have to wait in the column, or columns with all other vehicles. The right and effective solution would be an alternative border crossing, which would allow only local residents and daily migrants, i.e. people who are forced to use the border crossing for work on the other side of the border on a daily or frequent basis. When this problem was discussed last year, it was also mentioned that by next year it would actually be resolved by entering Croatia into Schengen space. But from Schengen so far, nothing, and as I said, the tourist season and hand in hand of the great tourist crowd are here at our door. I therefore appeal once again to the Ministry of Interior and Minister Bozinović to define, as soon as possible, the alternative small-border crossing in the north-west and north of Istria County, and thus help a large number of residents there who have been forced to resolve their existence through everyday migrations to another country. When we have not already allowed them to find a decent and acceptable job in their country, we can help them at least in this independent situation in which they will soon find out which way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103685	Thank you. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi will represent the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103785	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Today's free speech I'm going to use to talk about the day being marked tomorrow, May 21st. It is about the World Culture Day for Dialogue and Development, which UNESCO declared in 2002 and since then is marked on May 21st. The aim of this marking is to help countries in their own environments, respecting and promoting cultural diversity, create conditions for dialogue between culture and civilization in conditions of globalisation. In addition, in the preamble of the UNESCO Constitution, human dignity requires the expansion of culture and education with the aim of justice, freedom and peace. It is the sacred duty of all nations to fulfill it in the spirit of mutual help. On the occasion of cultural diversity day for dialogue and development, the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia, Kalisar, will organise a cultural dinner in Zagreb on Tuesday 24 May called Roma a unique and inspiring one. At the event, the emphasis will be on the Roma language. Thus, among others, we will talk about the strength and importance of the Roma language, which is also related to a date that UNESCO has recognised as an immaterial cultural heritage, and this is about November 5th when the World Day of Roma Language is marked and each year marks the Roma community in Croatia in an appropriate and dignified manner. This is one of the great achievements of the community to which I belong, because the Roma once marked their holidays in meadows and pubs, and today they do so in institutions such as the Croatian National Theatre, the National University Library, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and others. Speaking of languages, language is a basic prerequisite for preserving cultural identity and one of the basic criteria of cultural diversity, which is most often listed in addition to ethnicity, religion and tradition. The cultural evening will also be about the world culture of the inspired Roma and the impact of Roma creation on world art. In fact, few people know how many Roma have served as an inspiration to painters and writers. The huge influence of Roma musicians is on certain music directions such as classical music, jazz, ethnic flamenco and others not only in music but also in design, fashion and film. The Roma have never authorized their culture but have melted it with the culture of the country in which they lived and created, and that is probably the best example of what the Roma and the Roma souls are. If we think of culture as a single river, so to speak, then the Roma, with their way of cultural creation, have shown the highest degree of selflessness and cosmopolitanism. The indigenous Roma culture has been preserved mostly through oral surrender, but over the last decades, there has been an increasing literary creation that gathers and collects Roma works, but also creates new works. There are more and more Roma artists and artists who create new literary, visual and theatre works to change perception towards the Roma national minority. He will also be able to learn about Roma mythology and proverbs. Namely, since oral surrender is the base of Roma literature in which the language is preserved and thus the identity through a large number of stories, fairy tales, legends and proverbs is the desire to make an audience known to all of them. It is very important to meet one community through culture because without identifying the uniqueness of a culture, we can hardly talk about social dialogue and even less about the development of an entire society. In this regard, education on different cultures, meeting with their members, and various events that bring people closer to groups like this I mentioned earlier are essential. So I will be very happy to invite you, my colleagues and colleagues, and all the other public to join us at a cultural dinner to get closer to the Roma and their culture, their traditions and customs. There's no better way for people to get closer and know each other than it is. through someone's culture. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] She's the one who impregnates a man. And only when individuals identify with their culture is cultural identity... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] it comes to full expression. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u103786	Thank you. And now one notice. Since there are not many applicants, but it is never known, of course, for today's debates, for the presentation of the position of club representatives, let your colleagues know, we will start immediately after the debate on today's points. And we start with today's agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Registration of Persons with Disabilities, second reading, P.Z. No. 244; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 244. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That's bill number 244. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading and amendments may therefore be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. With us is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Silvio Basic, will he take the floor? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112033	... Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] The Law on the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities was passed 20 years ago, and from that time there has been a series of changes in the systems of data sources on persons with disabilities and informing their official records or registers, and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Registration of Persons with Disabilities is governed by this area. The register of data on persons with disabilities is a prerequisite for planning preventive measures and adopting a programme that contributes to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities, as well as public health levels with a view to increasing the age of citizens and the number of years of life without disease and disability. The register is conducted in HZJZ and started in 2002 and is the source of epidemiological data for national and international needs and the basis for checking the status of persons with disabilities. System(s) concerned with persons with disabilities on the basis of data from the Register shall make policies and decisions on this extremely vulnerabilities in the procedures for the exercise of their rights under the scope of their jurisdiction. The final legislative proposal ensures better coverage of data on persons with disabilities in the Register database, improving the communication of registers with data sources, the quality of epidemiological data and the speed of data exchange by electronic means from official records and the register of data sources, and removing unnecessary administrative procedures. In the final draft law, compared to the draft law, the possibility was added that the Register database contained data on the European identity card, the basis of the rules governing the mobility area and the text additionally no-technically developed. I would like to propose to HS that the final legislative proposal be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112034	Replications now. Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112035	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. The register of disabled persons is run by HZZ and started in 2002, so 20 years ago. Given changes in the data of persons with disabilities and information, the need for a new law is imposed. The registry has its general and special part, we won't talk about it. As of 2014, a methodology of skills carried out by the Institute of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been prescribed. In addition to the Croatian wartime wartime disabled and the civilian disabled of the Homeland War for which the art is performed by a doctor, the medical councils in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry are held. Please have information whether local communities meet their obligations to disabled persons all they need, access to public institutions, housing I have to finish! [[Mr. Kira's time.]] Houses, public transport although I am of the opinion that state, institutions, government with special sensibilities respect and meet the needs of people with disabilities. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112036	Here's your answer. ... Here's your answer. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112037	People with disabilities are one very vulnerabilitating population, and indeed all of us are in the goal, the interest of making it possible for these people to have as high quality and better life as possible. The subject of this law is the only harmonisation, i.e. to enable the collection and analysis or use of data of persons with disabilities, and this is all settled by other legal regulations and acts. And I am certain that the necessity and need for such persons in every part of our country to be made fully possible by their rights. And if it's happening in every single one of them, I really can't answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112038	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112039	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor. Here is the final proposal for a law on the register of persons with disabilities, not only does it help disabled people to finally have one single base with all the data with all the parameters that will certainly enable them and facilitate the further exercise of their rights. It is important that this is also the second in a series of laws that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament this year bring to this topic and we believe that we will continue in the direction of other laws to help people with disabilities. But what I am particularly interested in and what appears in this bill is therefore also a confirmation and I believe that this certificate will certainly contribute to the future that they can exercise all their rights through it, so I am interested in the fact that the law allows you to know whether and in what direction this right to confirm will go in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112040	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112041	The certificate will be available to any person with disabilities as regulated legally. So, absolutely every person who asks, the Croatian Institute of Public Health is obliged to give an appropriate confirmation of course free of charge without any compensation and all other legal bodies that do this [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Well, a person with disabilities and all the other legal bodies that are legally allowed for their own purposes. [[Intruder Radin: You can continue to have more time if you want.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112042	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112043	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Article 8 shall state what data the register contains, which may be searched. There are 21 items, now they've added under the 20th what we've been looking for on the European card. However, I would now ask about paragraph 21. This is the date of death. At my first reading on the board, and also at the plenary session, I asked a question about the cause of death, whether it would show up, so your colleague of state said no, no. It's only as an autopsy to prove cause of death. It is not, of course, so now on the recent board we are told about this final proposal that data is still being networked with the Institute of Public Health, i.e. other sources of information where the cause of death can then be found, so here you are, then I ask you to definitely state which data you will be able to obtain regarding the death of the insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112044	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112045	This law passed the alignments and was talked a lot about on our Health Committee, and we have indeed tried to bring all concrete remarks and suggestions into line and drown them in this bill. What I can tell you very clearly, and you know it yourself that the cause of death is not determined exclusively by an autopsy. However, in a much larger number it is determined clinically, and all data collected of course will not be included in that certificate, but all relevant bodies that are authorised to obtain this data will, of course, be anonymous for the need for further analysis, evaluation of data. One of the purposes of this register is also data analysis, prevention to help these people in the future and to reduce the incidence of disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112046	Thank you. Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112047	Thank you. This law or amendments will contribute to the functioning of the register for disabled persons, as a series of systematic changes have occurred since 2001 regarding the recording of information on official records. But what is bad about this is that people with disabilities have no use for better data records because the system of services for people with disabilities is becoming more and more inaccessible and people with disabilities are becoming more and more isolated. How much of these changes will lead to the improvement of the status of persons with disabilities, if we know that certain inequalities have been introduced last year among people with disabilities, so that medical councils have been performed by the Ministry of Defence for the skills of the Croatian defenders and civilian victims, while for all other persons with disabilities means skills in the Office of Arts since 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112048	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112049	There is much in Croatian health care that can be improved and wants to improve. It is a constant process, but there are also some things that we are predicating in Europe, so let's say that information is among them, so that we are one of the four EU member states that has far gone or are one of the best in the EU to use information data. I would not agree with you that this registry will absolutely contribute nothing to people with disabilities, though, I think it will or will, because it will make it easier for them to collect the data they need. Of course with the register that not all the problems that people with disabilities have that will not be corrected, changed, improved is it quite impossible... the register simply collects data, allows faster, easier and simpler data exchanges precisely designed to help and increase the quality of life for people with disabilities We'll try everything else another way to solve it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112050	Thank you. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112051	Thank you. Your Honor. You state in the reasons that several MPs and advocates on the European identity card have been accepted, however, when we look more carefully, it is only in art. No. 8 such data can be obtained on the European card, however, if the European card is not legally determined to be issued, and if it is not determined how much we understand it then the European project comes into question. So here's if you could explain to us why, and that's what the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities has been talking about, that European card and the rules on its release are still not included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112052	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112053	Well, for the simple reason that this law regulates exactly how to collect data from people with disabilities, and what you're talking about is that it's not within the scope of this law, so it's not included in this rule, but I'm sure that all these shortcomings that, if they really exist, will have to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112054	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112055	My dear secretary. I'd just like to ask you a brief piece of information. At what stage is the construction of an information system to support the construction of the register? At what stage is the construction of the information system to be supported by the register?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112056	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112057	I really can't answer that question because I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112058	You've had more time you can complete. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112059	I don't know what stage it's at, maybe it's already made, maybe it's not done I really don't know, I'm sure it'll be completely adequate and it'll work right, and with it it's being built on maybe it's already in function.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112060	Thank you. You'll have more time later. Mrs. Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Lately, we can witness a rapid increase in the number of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Until recently, we've been dealing with about 10%, 520,000, etc., but the recent data I've read is 608, including 612,000 people with disabilities. Can you tell if you know to this day what is the correct number and what may be the reason for so much increase in the number of people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112062	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112063	The number is too large anyway, and the exact number really doesn't know what it is at this point. It's the same living process and of course those numbers are changing. I also cannot dare or go into speculation which is the reason for this increase, surely the reasons are complex and I think they exceed this time that I have in this replica, but thank you for pointing to this problem, as well as all constructive proposals in the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112064	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So surely in the process of obtaining disability status that are of great importance and important experts and certainly the work that it does is difficult and often requires both empathy and most people have it, with professionalism clearly which is first. I had while I was deputy mayor and covered the area of the social community often repeated remarks just from the Split-Dalmatia County or from the town of Split that certain witches did not always have enough empathy, even some had certain traumas after meeting them. I wouldn't get too much into the details right now, but I'd like to ask you a little attention and that kind of behavior of a few people who, in that way, throw everything that most people do in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112066	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112067	Well, maybe this isn't the time or place for this kind of answer that I'm about to give, but you've encouraged me to do it, so I feel like a man and a doctor with a duty and a responsibility to answer like this. I think the issue of empathy is something that goes beyond the profession itself, rather than the issue of empathy, is the question of society as a whole. Somehow, we seem like a society in the last 10 years, 20 years we've completely gone from caring for the total, I'm not talking about political structure, political belongings, but the whole society towards the individual, and we've simply put ourselves in the focus over the rights of others, and that somehow we seem to be constantly stressing our rights and ignoring the rights of others. Yes, absolutely human freedoms and human rights, but until they threaten the rights of others. I'm sure you all testify the same way I do when I come to some shopping malls and to a parking lot so people park in places of people with disabilities, and they don't have any disability. While such things are, this is a very big example of how we treat society as a society. Other people, I think there's a need to change everything not just... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112068	At the end of the day, Mrs. Naughty Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112069	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that this law regulates the question of the register itself of persons with disabilities and that it intends to ensure better coverage of data on persons with disabilities in the database register and it is a good proposal and, of course, the point is that this group of people does not have to go from one institution to another but that as many of their jobs, their demands can be carried out in one place, in fact, we can say the eased fashion. For example, for example, some diagnosis of persons in the register are permanent, permanent, and cannot be treated. However, such diagnosis requires re-experience every two years. For example, people with Down syndrome, so every two years they have to go back to art, so here if you can answer us, do you even know how and when you plan to actually approach this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112070	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112071	So this is the sole issue of the profession and I think it's the profession that needs to define how many of these, which are the diagnosis for which the evaluation is needed, and in which cases it takes a repeat, re-experience. I would leave that sort of thing entirely to the profession. I don't think that's a political, political question. Of course, if there are certain changes in the diagnosis that all these data will be updated in a timely manner in the register and that they will be available to all those who need what is the objective of this law. I repeat how many times and when there's something to be skillful about, it's only a matter of profession, even if that's what I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112072	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you for now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first Mrs. Martina Vlasic Iljkic, the SDP representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112073	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, respected colleagues, it is good that this law will improve the register of disabled persons since 2001, given that there has been a series of changes in the information of official records, changes in data records and all that has been developed over all these years. But the bad thing about this is that a person with a disability from better data records has no use because the system of services for people with disabilities is becoming more and more unreachable, and people with disabilities are becoming more and more isolated. Instead of having with the development of society and awareness the need to involve people with disabilities in the community who require a number of European and national documents, we have a system that cannot meet the needs of people with disabilities from the earliest age. According to the Ombudsman's report, we have problems with the lack of early intervention in the territory of Croatia, especially in the Slavonian region, rural areas and islands. There is no appropriate diagnostic of the early intervention service provider, the logopedes are expected for more than half a year, treatments are insufficient, and waiting lists are huge. Furthermore, not to provide adequate, professional support to children with developmental difficulties in terms of early promotion of development and failure to ensure continued disability prevention constitutes a failure to comply with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is also a distinction between children based on health conditions as it fails to provide adequate early treatment, comprehensive psychosocial support and the use of public services on an equal footing with others, which is prohibited under the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have almost done nothing in the process of establishing an early intervention system. According to UNICEF 24.169 children aged 0 to 5 years in Croatia, potential recipients of early childhood intervention services are only one of eight children receiving these services. Children with difficulty kindergartens are almost completely unreachable, only a few hours a week because we can't call them kindergartens at all, and amendments to the Preschool Law and education are missed opportunities to provide children with the difficulties of assistants modeling the school system. Not to mention education further, employment in rural areas, lack of accommodation facilities for people with disabilities of all age groups. It is particularly difficult to provide care outside of her own family when a child has significant mental health disorders manifested by aggression and autoaggression caused by the child and all family members. Almost as a rule, such users have nowhere to stay. Social care centres do not pass, do not find free places in the homes of social care and the problem is solved by individual interventions of the competent ministry of peer pressure or is not resolved at all. Why did I bring up all this trouble? Only one part of the significant problems for people with disabilities, and this law, in fact, by collecting data, by better informing, nothing significant will happen now in the system because these problems have not been recognized for a long time in the work of the government and all ministries in which jurisdiction and care for people with disabilities. According to HZZ data, almost 600,000 people with disabilities have lived in Croatia since September 2021, 57% of whom are men and 43% women. The maximum number of people with disabilities is 45 at the age of 20 to 64, while 44% of people in the age group are over 65 years old. A register of disabled persons is conducted in HZZZ and started in 2022, 2002 and is a source of epidemiological data for national and international needs. The purpose of this law is to contribute to a better analysis of systems that care for people with disabilities for policy making and decisions on this vulnerable group. On the basis of the register, when it was established, in fact, the application of the international classification of functioning, disability and health of the World Health Organization was created, a vision of the application of this classification in the system and the reform of the methodology, and thus of the skills system for people with disabilities. The process lasted from 2007 to 2014, and the basic novelty in accessing such an art methodology is based on the need for a more comprehensive assessment of persons with disabilities, taking into account the functioning of a person rather than solely the type of disability caused. It is therefore good to prescribe data sources of the Register from which data are collected for disabled persons, in accordance with the amended system of skills of disabled persons through the identification of their functional abilities. Since 2014, skills for persons with disabilities has been implemented by the Institute of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, except for the exercise of the Law on Croatian Defence in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, as amended in 2021, the Methodology of Work has been amended, so instead of the regulation on the art methodologies prescribed by the Rules, a new way of art is prescribed for new medical councils. In fact, the extraction of defenders and civilian victims from this Institute of Arts has contributed to increasing the inequality of persons with disabilities and reorganised the system of art, regardless of the fact that there was already a separate department for the skills of defenders and that organisation and the reorganisation were also opposed by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. In order to simplify the process of exercising the right for persons with disabilities, it is necessary to introduce a European card, and to create the necessary preconditions for the law on the registration of persons with disabilities, it is necessary to provide for and prescribe the adoption of a regulation that would further regulate all procedures, all procedures relating to the issue and use of the identity card itself, and this Law is in fact merely the introduction of a European card, and not the procedure for its adoption. The register under this Act means a comprehensive and fully methodologically standardised and updated records of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, and data are used to ensure transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and full data necessary for the analysis of data on persons with disabilities. It is this, this purpose, the real purpose of the Register of Persons with Disabilities and we expect full implementation of this Act, since persons with disabilities are extremely vulnerable group and good records can direct policy and make decisions for the welfare of persons with disabilities, but this is not a prerequisite for, in fact, not an indication of the implementation of the present. Good analysis and data collection are a prerequisite for planning appropriate measures and preventive programmes. The Institute of Public Health has produced reports, but the records so far have not been an indicator of success, as well as the adoption of documents, national plans or action plans, which we have adopted, and the implementation has shown a great lack of availability of services for people with disabilities where the Government, or the RES, has a major problem, which I was talking about in the introduction. We believe that the new Register Act is necessary, that it will contribute to better data unity in view of everything and legislative changes, that it can direct policies for the development of rights and services of persons with disabilities, the SDP Club will support this Act but the issue remains of the implementation of all policies of the current national plans, action plans, where the Government has not shown understanding and offered solutions for all needs of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112074	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112075	Thank you very much, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to look back a little bit on the very information, that is, the construction of that register. I haven't found any information about it, and I can see that the secretary doesn't have that information either, which is the phase of building the information system, but I'd just like to start by saying that today will be a lot easier to discuss when last time we all agreed that in that register there will be all the disabled, or all the people with disabilities, regardless of how they are artificial. Regardless of our disagreement and our differing thinking, we supported this Law in our first reading because we believe that we must do so on behalf of more than 500 thousand people with disabilities. Now let me go back to the law. There are a few things that you might want to draw attention to, since we do not have the right information, that is, the Law does not show. It says here, the Law says that data is collected from multiple sources, specifically, 10 sources are listed here, and it says that these data will be collected by electronic data exchange. We don't see anywhere here, when we look at later, the data that is being collected, we don't see anywhere that they're actually going to collect documentation in a way that the documents that are the source of that data will be placed in that register and that each of these documents can be clearly seen from that register. I don't know, maybe it's meant to be, but it's not written here in the law. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary to have and in fact a document part of the database in which we could scan each document and, or transfer it to PDF or in some other form, and in this way we would actually have complete documentation in this Register and we should no longer keep that documentation in paper form. Since we know how much money is spent on paper documents and how much money is needed to archive those documents, I think it would be good to have this register in which we will still have data for more than 500,000 people with disabilities to fit those data in, to be the documents that are the source of these data, which are listed inside, to actually contribute to that register. So the institutions that need to access these data see immediately the original document that was actually the source of that data. This is very important because when you need to get that data then you will need to re- or look for photocopies or to send it by email or to scan it and send it by email or actually send it in some other way or to physically come into the office to get these data or to get the document. And this is not necessary since it says that the data will be exchanged from all these institutions, the ministries that are responsible for administration, education, Croatian defenders, the Pension Insurance Office, the Health Insurance Office, the Institute of Engineering. I think it would be very good if it were to be included in the register in some way, or if this informational, informational part of the system wasn't built to add it in, because that would save us a lot of money. In the construction phase of the system, and later in the phase of the use of that system by all the institutions that can use it. In fact, if we look at the law a little bit then we see that it is primarily envisaged that these data are being reused by those institutions from which the data came into the register, so there are no big ones, there is no big division of data to other institutions which I sincerely regret because this means that we have not changed any business processes in the institutions that need to use this register by building a new register. Here's just one example, one example that I can give. When people with disabilities come to school, it would be very good for professional services to be able to access the child’s data directly. They need to know what's going on, they need to know how that kid used to do, what it was all about. If we had that information together, if these documents were in that register it would be much easier and it would be easier for the school's professional services and for the registry manager. Now that I have touched the registry manager, I must mention that here in the article, Article 15(4) states that the data controller is responsible for the implementation and accuracy of the data input. So that part, I think it's hard for the leaders to accept because they can't control records for 500,000 people. For the accuracy of the data input, the person who has entered that data must be responsible, or the person who has submitted these data from one institution to the register, because if you are going to charge the controller later on, it will be a real problem for him. In addition, the article previously states that the Institute collects data and writes in, that the Institute will actually control the accuracy of the data. It is written in Article 10 where it states that the Office is under official duty to verify the accuracy of the registration of the data in the register. Therefore, I think it would be good to consider this, this Article 15(4) below, and to see that it can also be changed later in the short term. I can't say that about data security because we don't know what's going on here together, and we can't really talk about whether it's going to be implemented at all 8 days from the entry into force, since we don't know what information support it's in, and we don't know at what stage the communication lines are to be established according to the institutions and ministries that are going to be, or who are in charge of handing over the paperwork in, in that register. I expect and believe that since it says here that for, for the verification and accuracy of the data, the data is in charge of the Institute, I assume that some people from the Bureau will take over these data from other registers or from other institutions, and that after that person will submit a report to his boss or the controller on the basis of which he will be able to and determine how much he is, what is the actual urgency on the other hand. I'm not just talking about the register here because the other side needs to be ready to hand you over. The registry will likely be ready to accept the data from the moment it is established, however, the question is whether the other side will be ready to hand over the data. There is probably some spare variant that is not mentioned here, which is that data may be transferred electronically to some media, and then entered into the register, but there is no law that will probably not have to be further regulated by the institutions with institutions that have no established infrastructure that they need to have established in order to exchange it. And I'd also like to mention one more moment here, one more moment, which is that of all the possible processes that can be done on the basis of these data collected, it says here that the processing of data from the register will only be done as a aggregate statistical indicator. If we will have only a collection of statistical indicators and if we do not have any other processing that would allow us to react and which would allow other institutions to react faster and more quality then that register will not fulfill its role. Let us not forget that with this register it would be good to communicate, I have already mentioned earlier educational institutions or schools, primary schools and secondary schools should also be there to communicate with that register, and it is also not stated that social care centres will communicate with that register. I don't know if it's a mistake or if the social care centres will communicate through the ministry indirectly, but mostly here it doesn't say that the social welfare value will be able to communicate directly with the... register which I also think is a mistake because social care centres should take care of people with disabilities and provide them with special and additional services. So here's a series of observations that I made here on behalf of the club, so I'd like to ask you to consider and maybe in the future we'll talk about it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112076	You, too. Ms Ljubica Lukačić Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112077	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities We have long waited for this law and here I thank the Secretary of State, I would say on behalf of all persons with disabilities that we have welcomed this law and I would say what is in a quality way arranged for all the data of persons with disabilities to be in one place. The provisions of this law also serve to collect the largest number of data relating to persons with disabilities and to enable them to be in one place, and the law regulates how to collect these data, cause data, type, degree and severity of damage to the health of persons with disabilities. So, like I said, we've been trying to do it for years, and here we've been able to get one of those quality laws that will, of course, go along with maybe some other regulations that will have to be brought into line with this law. This law regulates the terms, so in art. 2. he says defines who is a person with disabilities, who is a child with developmental difficulties etc., etc. which is the status of a person with disabilities. I'd stop here right now and say State Secretary I'll give two amendments or I've already given two amendments to this bill, and that's what you've set out here what a child is, a definition of a child with developmental difficulties. I think it might be a little wrong or I'd say clumsyly defined, so here I suggest that a child with developmental difficulties be defined in the same way as a person with disabilities is defined because it really is. A person with disabilities cannot be defined in one way or another in one way, and a child with developmental difficulties under other regulations and defined as a child with developmental difficulties is the basis of the rules of the education system. This is simply not possible because the only way to sort out the degree and type of disability or whatever you want is possible through a unique body of art through the Office of Arts only he can tell who this child with developmental difficulties is. Furthermore, this law therefore defines all that the register must contain, and these are therefore also ways of collecting data. What will come to this data is, therefore, what are the documents that will be collected and what will eventually result in the collection of these data. What I think is well stated here, which is that it is in art. 18. that the Institute of Public Health issued a certificate, but I would not say about enrolment in the register, so the State Secretary, and in that part, proposed an amendment, that certificate must have its objective. The purpose of this certificate is to prove that someone with disabilities is to prove their status. That's what we've been waiting for for for years, and that's what I've said countless times already, I'd say here from this pay phone that people with disabilities need to know who they are, what they are. I am here to say in a single sentence of a single story, I was in Brussels last week in the European Parliament and there they asked me, Mrs Lukacic please you can give us some proof of disability. I was a little surprised, and I said I'm sorry, but I don't have it. Then they told me if there was anything you could give me that card or something. I had nothing to do with it, and I said I would send them a sign of accessibility because it is a sign that we all have in the EU as a whole. And I said that here we soon have a debate about the law that's going to bring this one out of which this one unique document will come from, that's a confirmation based on which the Office of Arts will then issue cards in four different colors. Here's what I said that we've been waiting for years for that confirmation, solution or confirmation, now it's less important the confirmation is a public document and it's going to prove to the person with disabilities that he really is a person with disabilities, and in order not to carry those papers, the Institute of Art has already spoken before about how on the basis of that certificate he's going to issue cards that are going to be in four different colors, so in four levels that we now have, four levels of skill for people with disabilities, so the fourth group is the hardest one, so we're going down with the weight of damage or the weight of functionality. This is what is more important than the degree of damage that functionality is extremely important and according to it determines levels, and the disability consists of both the level of damage and the degree and percentage of damage to the organism. So, from the level of functionality and from the degree of damage to the body. So about defining disability or the same way for HRVI, so for civil and completed we have come to a single equation, and soon we should kind of bring those rights in line. I think this is a good law, as I said we would come up with quality solutions, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law, and the Secretary of State would like you to consider amendments and I believe that if you accept them to contribute to the quality of this law, that it will be clearer and better defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112078	Thank you, too. Mr Marin Miletic will represent the representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112079	Mr. Radin's esteemed vice president, the esteemed associates of the competent authority, colleagues and colleagues. The Mosta Club always supports every law that we see is a step and that's better than what we've found and right now we're in such a situation that we'll always raise our hand regardless of what I mean, ruling is ruling whether, but no matter which side a good bill comes from or a better proposal than the one we found, that's because we always think that every step is better and that's why we're here in the mood to support this law. We have a few of these thoughts, I was just talking to my colleagues now whether things should have been made more clear in the law so we can separate the art, there are some more misunderstandings, but all in all when we're looking at the whole thing, we're ready to support this law. What I personally think should really think about is how to sensitize the public, and then local self-government to behave better I'll say so to people with disabilities and somehow I'm such an extrovert classic so I can't escape from my habitat. I'm colleagues when I was interested in it, then I'm gonna have to forgive her as a high school teacher, as a believer, and I haven't even thought about politics, so I'm friends with a disabled person she's in a wheelchair, so I told her I'd be interested in how that one day goes. Then she said come, and you'll see, and then I sat with him in her car that's adjusted, and then I passed, so I lasted about three hours, so I kind of went out, came to the parking lot, first you're wasting a parking space that you can't find, and then you realize that there's a parking lot for people who shouldn't park there. Then you get out of the car, and when you get in that wheelchair, you figure out what kind of trouble you're in. And now I'm really saying this doesn't work now I don't know anything that shouldn't, but I think local self-government, just local self-government can do a lot of things in synergy with, with bodies, I'll be very practical, concrete. So, you come in, you sit in a wheelchair, and then from the parking lot you have to get a footstep, and then I'm a sportsman your whole life, why, because someone who's been doing that legpost wasn't practical and thinking about what slope you need for a wheelchair, and then the people with disabilities go exactly who don't know when you're driving, so the boat is going under 45 degrees, and Lucrezia from Rijeka tells me, says you can't go with the wheelchair over it but you have to do this, so you have to drift, so this, I say so what is this, who's doing this, so if it's a town, they've been working on Croatian roads, it worked if it's not and then we get through the first barrier means on which I fell on the cart, then we come to the other obstacle, now we need to get on, on foot, but it's been on foot on foot, but it's like it's made to you's like a little bit of water, and you can're going down the wall, and you can're on your back and you can're going down the wall, and then you's like you's, and you's like you're like you can're like you can's, you's, and you're like you's, and you're like you're like you's, and you're like you's, and you're like you can're like you're like you can're like you're like you're going down, and you're like you're going, and you's, you's, and you's like you's like you can're like you can's, and you's like, and you's like, you', you know, and you', you can', you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you' So we have people with disabilities that we at the local level actually do, so forgive us for making it difficult for people, so we're not helping people, we're making it difficult for them, and now I'm telling her how it is, so just rickety and now this might sound weird to you, but here you try one day with someone with a disability in a wheelchair just passing by with a man, passing their usual day, which is all difficulties. Then you have a situation, the Croatian roads come nicely, on foot for those who, for the pouring water for, for that goat, for, for, for, for the waste water, for the rain, for everyone to go through those bars and now for us who, who are not persons with disabilities and who we walk, we step it over and over, and people who are disabled, who are in a wheelchair, they can't get past that because their wheels fall into those iron bars and as much as we may ever do this so that what's going on here is what, to them it's the biggest problem that they have because if you're a person with disabilities, you can't get in your wheelchairs that are actually your feet coming to some workplace, come to work, come to work, come to drink coffee, then I think what's telling you how much country you care about you or let go back locally, how much your own self-government, you can't worry about your city with any practice. And here I really, really appeal from this place to be an incentive to the mayors, to the people who lead that, yes, yes, to look out for each other, at the end of health no one has, no one has subscribed to health, so while he's alive he'll be healthy and everything will be perfect. I'd like to tell you another absurd story. So it's the former mayor of Rijeka, now that it's not me to mention people, in the end, and it's ungrateful to mention people when they're not there for you, but I'm telling you right now about the situation. Bubahmetovic is called a person with disabilities, a difficult life story, now that I'm not going into it, I guess really when he slaps you, and then he slaps you to the end and then the man gets sick, he's both legless, so without both legs above his knee, Rekanin Bubahmetovic. Now listen to this, and life has thrown him so much where he's thrown into the pit that this person with disabilities, so he doesn't have both legs, he's got both legs, he's lost his job, he's lost everything, he's got God's dear office, he's got a lawyer for people with disabilities, he's got a really great lady, at least my experience, so I've experienced, who's doing it with love, heart, and he's struggling as much as he can, as much as she can in all that situation. I sent her e-mails, and I called her, and I talked to her about this particular case. And now look at this city of Rijeka, noting the former mayor, not this Marko but the former mayor has placed a man in the necessary accommodation on the third floor of 43 stairs to the room where the man lived, and there I've sent e-mails, called the D.O.A., something in the end, and in the end, it wasn't, then as it was necessary to pay some debt, so we've raised the money, paid the debt, but then, of course, nothing got resolved, at the end of the man thank God this man went private and settled down somewhere and that. Look, the local self-government of a man without legs, with no legs placed on the third floor of an emergency accommodation, a man has no legs, both legs, so who, well, that's, that's, I don't know what it is, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, how we's, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, that's, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Alan, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Alan, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, The state, the local self-government, it's when someone comes to finance, don't tell me about finance, there's money that doesn't matter, so there's money that doesn't matter, go find it, print it, give it to them, do whatever you want, so where people are sick, where they're powerless, where money is irrelevant, so find it, take it from everyone else. And here's really let this be a kind of appeal to both state and state, and then local self-government does everything it can for people with disabilities to live and perform their daily life like any other of us who are not disabled. And so here's why I said every step forward we're going to support, we have this particular grudge, but what do we do, that's how it is, but we think it's better than it was, so it's waiting a long time at the end and everything, so we're going to raise that hand, and let this be an incentive for everyone to look at a little bit better people around us, and then, in particular, people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112080	You, too. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112081	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, of course, we welcome the adoption of a new Register Act, given that since 2002, when the first law was passed, the entire methodology of skills skills has changed, and there have been many formal and real changes in the systems that are the sources of data. The most important end range for people with disabilities refers to the fact that they will be able to quickly and easily obtain confirmation of their status from the register in an online manner, and also to systems in which they, therefore, exercise their rights in the same way as they do. Therefore, the Croatian Institute of Public Health is the only authorised institution in the Republic of Croatia that fully monitors and records the status and characteristics of persons with disabilities. And it's important to prescribe a way to use and manipulate that data. We must be aware that 14% of persons in the Republic of Croatia, so 14% of people have some form and degree of disability. And it is important that this significant number of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens be truly included in the community and that they can truly exercise their rights. To achieve this, care and care for people with disabilities should finally be followed by a multi-sector approach. We talked about it in our first reading, but unfortunately it is not appreciated by the argument that it is not a substantive remark. However, we believe that if we want to ensure the adoption and implementation of appropriate and timely measures in policies to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities and their families, it is also necessary to actively include the Education and Health and Labour Sector and employment and the construction and urban planning and housing and social care and sports and culture. And in order for this multi-sector cooperation to be successful, it is necessary, of course, to monitor all data with all features. We must therefore conclude that it is a great shame that according to the proposed content, the register does not, unfortunately, provide extremely important information on socio-demographic status as it does not lead to as much important data on the movement in the education and work system and on a number of other characteristics related to each person with disabilities. In the process of skills and such data are certainly taken into account and included in the final assessment. So, unfortunately, here now remains to wait for some new changes and complements to find a way to include all relevant features regarding the person whose data are entered into this register. Because the characteristics of disability are exhaustive, but not enough for dynamic monitoring. So we regret once again that we missed this opportunity, but we hope that at least soon we will get changes and additions to improve the situation. Furthermore, simplifying the process of exercise of the right is extremely important for people with disabilities who highlight a number of European documents, and for this reason again we regret that no proposal for a lawyer for disabled persons has been accepted and we are more represented and represented in the first reading on the introduction of a European identity card for persons with disabilities, as well as the adoption of a regulation on a European identity card for persons with disabilities, which would further regulate the rules on the issue and use of the identity card itself, which is provided for by the project to improve the application of the right of persons with disabilities in the area of mobility. According to our knowledge, without the introduction of this document into Croatian legislation, which is pardonable, however, it is possible that this bill will not be implemented because it is a key prerequisite set by the European Commission, so we believe that it is a huge failure to resolve this issue by this law. This time we will also again and again warn about the inequality of civil and war-hazarded peoples to which the latest amendments to the Law on Advocates are further contributed by means of different methodologies, as indicated in Article 5 of this proposal, and based on the various methods of skills, their rights of different scopes are recognised for similar damages. As it has been repeatedly highlighted in public debates, in public discussions, in this House, in former councils, and I suppose it will be and I hope that as long as this situation is not resolved by the inequality of war and civil persons with disabilities, it is simply unsustainable because it is deeply unfair and unsatisfactory. We also believe that it was necessary to consider and adopt another objection by the Ombudsman to persons with disabilities that required that a person with disabilities may request a certified examination of the document on the basis of which the registration of a particular information was made in the Register, if that document is a condition for the exercise of a right and if it cannot obtain it from the holder of the document or otherwise. Well, here, I hope you don't need to stress specifically, yet, I'm afraid, that the attorney general is in daily contact with persons with disabilities and her objections, and so this one came out of practice, and therefore, we cannot accept that the remarks and proposals of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities are not taken into account. So from this place again and again we appeal to better cooperation between the ministries, legislators and the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities because it's quite logical and I believe that we all agree on this, it's a way to allow the best possible care and care and attention to all persons with disabilities, which, as a society, we are obliged to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112082	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Ruzica Vukovac will represent kz for a just Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112083	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, according to the definition of the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, any person with disabilities who, due to physical or mental impairment, is temporarily or permanently past, present or future, innate or acquired, under the influence of any cause, has lost or deviated from the expected physical or physiological structure and is limited or insufficient to carry out certain activities in a manner and to an extent considered common to people in a particular environment. The approach to disability is important to note that at the end of the 20th century a social model of access to disability by which the social community needs to ensure better conditions and services for disabled persons, so that they can participate equally in the life of the community. According to the social model concept, disability is seen mainly as a socially-made problem and a problem of full integration of individuals into society. Invalidity is not a feature of an individual, before a set of complex conditions, many of which created a social environment. Since the problem is a shared responsibility of society, a broad-ranging social action is required that would result in the necessary changes and allow for equal participation of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life. Prior to that, an individual model of disability prevailed at the centre of attention of a man who needed help and treatment in order to repair without the possibility of equal participation and decision on his own life, in which the role of experts was dominant, and institutions and housing units in which they were mostly closed or away from social flows. Since we're probably all going to support this bill and I don't see any controversial parts in it, let me give you a little attention to one interesting thing. Did you know that there is a domestic James Bond, Agent 010, instead of 007. I'll brief you on the original idea of a domestic detective film taken through workshops with young people with difficulties. The film recently experienced its own vocabulary, and recently the prime minister of Zagreb under conditions that allowed small budgets and, of course, the measures that were in place. The internet prime minister is expected, as is the engagement by foreign festivals. The critics are great for now. Why is he important to this subject? This film is an example of real practical support and inclusions in culture and art where rules, as in professional sports, are unfortunately written for excellent and best because we live in a society that promotes competition as a purpose and thus our life becomes a struggle for survival in which we are all each other's competition, instead of being co-workers and partners in working for a common improvement. Those who are obviously not the best should remain at the bottom as the object of compassion to make the great feel big and good and toss crumbs. The film Agent 010 provides something really innovative in the field of creativity of young people with disabilities. Something that in other countries appears to be more present, judging by the fact that an international film festival dedicated to people with disabilities captures a film, each year it takes between 500 and 700 applications of new films in which people with disabilities act. The festival Catch the Film in its 4 countries of organisers was accepted in schools and in colleges which organize projections, workshops, stands and others based on films. There's been a festival for 20 years. In that movie, as well as in the real James Bond movie, an agent, a detective solves successful obstacles and fights to make the world a better place. In real life, he has a major obstacle to our institutions and their complicated rules. The administration, the councils sleeping on duty, and for which the secret agent is indeed a secret. Unfortunately, this is just an example of what could have been from other sectors. The growing administration, the inertness of our system, the non-acceptance of new ideas are visible in all things and sectors that we can see. This example shows above all the incoordination and poor co-operation between ministries and institutions because although it is interdisciplinary, it touches various resolutions and is well assessed by experts and from several sectors as innovative, the programme is in practice not specifically and adequately supported by any ministry. It depends entirely on volunteerism. The example for the inertness of the system has and too much and it is interesting that people who work in institutions, however much help they are, are often tied hands, and it is precisely by the bureaucracy itself. Why is it an interesting festival that thematics of people with disabilities? So precisely because he changed reality during his existence through film, separation and topic processing and encouraged different actions in practice such as setting up, except for the ramps where they were not there, changed curricula, made TV shows, certain schools formed videos on the subject, hundreds of students were organised to visit cinemas in Rijeka, Lošinj, Krk, Osijek, the authors themselves, but unfortunately at their own expense. Looking at the films shown as part of the Spirit Association's visit to Zagreb, I am pleasantly surprised by the evident progress in all fields of film aesthetics and crafts. It is nice to see someone like Spirit Association working on film production related to sensitive OSI topics without common pathetic and self-pity, treating their actors as equal actors and creators in the film field. Such engagement is extremely social and socially important and I hope that the competent institutions will recognise and reward this work. The film Secret Agent 010, it is funny and fun and crafty, skillful persiflaze, a slightly neglected film genre, is that leading a detective story and using all available expressive means, the authors of the film have done a work in which the disability of an individual, or individual actors, has become a negligible fact because as viewers, it makes no difference in following the film. It is this kind of invisible, undetectable and subtle inclusion of humor that we need in art to make any kind of discrimination a relic of the past. Agent 010 and his brother festival Catch the film for years are changing perspectives and offering a different view of reality, a view that everyone understands was focused on the goal of making us all better. Because even though they're a person with disabilities, the messages that these films give are messages to everyone. Messages from which much can be learned and changed. Of course, if you want to. It is therefore clear why teachers and directors so often invite the Spirit Association and those programmes to be included in schools. We are left to see which are actually the reasons that such a process has a budget, and also support institutions of minimum size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112084	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Martina Vlasic Iljkić and so we start with individual discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112085	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. What I failed on behalf of the Club of Representatives to touch on the specificities of this Law regarding the determination of certain newspapers, which we expected this Law would explain, so here, it would take advantage of this opportunity, and this refers in fact to a confirmation which also the colleague spoke about for persons with disabilities where they were actually expected to be able to obtain confirmation of their disability in one place, which this Law failed to regulate. Now as it stands implementing, the Law states that the purpose is only for a person with disabilities to receive such confirmation that it is entered in the register or in the Register of Persons with Disabilities, but is not known for its purpose. In accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, a certificate issued by a public law body for which each recognised law is registered may issue a certificate of established disability, and the equalisation of actually such barriers, which could be removed by this Act, refers in fact to these administrative barriers which persons with disabilities certainly live on a daily basis. It should be found that persons can obtain a certificate in a simpler way about their disability to prove their status, which will unite rights and established disability, and that such confirmation is valid for proving the status of persons with disabilities. However, I note that this entails the safe and changes of the ZUP, i.e. the implementation of the conditions for that certificate to have its own meaning, but in such a proposal, as in this Act, it does not now. I will also touch on the Institute of Art whose intensity was to artificialize people with disabilities in one place, united. Unfortunately, for every right of that body, the individual disabled expert, for example for childcare procedures, the right to part-time work, social care rights, the pension system and despite those problems, is good that these changes will contribute to a better information exchange, as regards the Office of Skills with the Register of Persons with Disabilities. Although there is information that the application has already provided functionality for example, the takeover of requests and medical documentation in electronic form and.../incomprehensible/... and the delivery of findings and opinions to the body which requested the skills and ensures the rights of the user, in practice it is not, for example, still sending documents to the Office for Arts and Perceptions in paper form, while I say there is an information background, but it is not yet used in that section as it should be used. Certainly facilitating all and administrative barriers is in the interest of persons with disabilities. As far as the European card is concerned, we believe that it is not enough to just mention it in terms of this law, but it was also necessary to determine the implementation of its adoption and the regulation that regulates it. The Institute of Public Health also makes reports for people with disabilities. Reports by county are presented in Zorno and can be directed by national, regional and local policies towards specificities prevailing in individual counties. The importance of the register is recognised in the national plan for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2021 to 2027. She would have just pointed out in the field of research and development as the holder of the monitoring of scientific guidelines, knowledge and nomenclature in the field of disability, and in cooperation with the Faculty of Educational Rehabilitation, the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Health Studies in Rijeka, where public health aspects of disability were introduced as teaching content. What I have pointed out is that good information and data integration is not and guarantees that services are actually available or that policies are strengthened, this may be a guideline, but no, does not mean that implementation policy works the way it should function.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112086	Thank you. Before we give replicas, I'd like to welcome the students who are with us from Hardig College, New York, under the direction of professor. The Pirscha are here with us, please, few of us to greet them. Professor Pirsch, Professor Pirsch. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much, let's go to the replicas, Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112087	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, here we are more agreeable so it is not enough in Article 18 to state that only a certificate of data is issued, but that this certificate should have its own, its purpose, so to prove the status of that person and in that sense we hope that the amendment submitted by counterpart Lukacic will be accepted. Do you think that even in this improved form, the register will bring improvement to people with disabilities, parents with developmental difficulties, some of which have a more difficult disability, children eat. I'm afraid not because I think there's a lot more problems in the field. Practically, here are every few requests from parents to do something in order to increase childcare leave fees with severe developmental disturbances, to define the duration of leave for child care with severe developmental disturbances, to define the abolition of the right or to stop that removal of the right to care in the event of the cancellation of one of the parents, to change the method of skills. Do you have any idea if this will all be combined with this register? or will they follow new laws? [[Intruder: Op, op, op, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112088	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112089	Thank you. Here is that as far as the certificate is concerned, I agree that the certificate really needs to have its own meaning, and if the amendment is accepted by my colleague Lukacic, it is important that it be implemented, not that it is an excess certificate that will be applied, and it will not prove all that other bodies will require in the recognition of certain rights in the system of any social care system or health insurance system. As for improving the rights for children with difficulties there is certainly room to improve this right to leave up to 8 years of child's life. We believe that this limit to 8 years of child's life is too small and that it should be there, there is room for improvement. And as far as general rights in the disability system are concerned, we have certain inequalities that are rights...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112090	Thank you, time. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112091	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe, of course, we all agree that the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities is certainly the place that has the most information on the situation on the ground, which is in daily contact with people with disabilities and really knows their problems deeply and widely. So the sad fact is that in too high a percentage is being refused or disobeyed by remarks, suggestions, right from that office that should be the most important indication of where and where in, with legal proposals. Well, here, I'd like to ask you to comment on the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112092	Thank you, thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112093	Thank you. That the Ombudsman's report is indeed when reading the state view indicator, in fact, that the system of social care or that the system of different ministries that need to act interdisciplinaryly enables people with disabilities, and that is certainly not enough. And from all these indicators and individual case representations, or through a qualitative approach methodology and in fact by a visual case that we can find in these reports is a good indicator because it is certainly not the only indicator. He's just a sign that, what's going on in the field. And the people who are shown aren't the only ones, perhaps for that reason her reports don't, no, they don't respect enough because there are no such cases of violations of rights for people with disabilities in a large number of cases, which I don't think. If data are also shown in a qualitative and in quantitative form show a visual state. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112094	So we give the word to Mrs. Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112095	The respected MPs before us are one of the very important ones of the law, and I believe that its provisions are certainly very important, but I cannot be taken away from the impression that it is a law that makes some technical changes and compliance with European legislation. What is so much needed for people with disabilities is the Law on Inclusive Adjectives and the Law on Personal Assistance, so I am taking this opportunity to appeal to the authorities to deliver them to the constituency benches as soon as possible and I hope that you share this appeal with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112096	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112097	Thank you. That what I said about this Register Act actually pooling data and showing us everything we already have and updating actually records according to all possible new standards regarding both documentation and rights and more. But what is certainly not solved are those rights from the welfare system which are the last one we had in February of this year, where we have reintroduced a certain inequality because certain persons with disabilities have been recognised and increased the right while other persons with disabilities are absolutely nothing in that part equal to the possibility, as regards equal rights and in fact increases because the cost increases for persons with disabilities and third and fourth categories are the same as for increasing the cost of life and persons with disabilities and with first and second categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112098	Time. Thank you. Mrs. E is now you are finished now and now we go to the closing words, SDP is the first and Mrs. Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112099	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few final thoughts on behalf of the SDP club. So we all agree that the register is a source of epidemiological data for national and international needs and a basis for checking the status of persons with disabilities. The register becomes a significant factor in the creation and implementation of policies for people with disabilities, but it should also have its own purpose and benefit for the disabled. We talked a lot, and we also saw in public consultation that there are objections to associations that feel that they should even up the skills of persons, so two groups of people with disabilities on a military basis and persons with disabilities whose cause is not related to war periods because they are currently experts based on different methodologies and the rights of different ranges are recognised and their rights should, of course, be evened, so we hope that here are some indications that there will be a change of the Law on the unique body of art. Furthermore, we have talked a lot about the European card, in order to simplify the process of exercising the rights of persons with disabilities, and in line with the EU document, the Union of Equality and the Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for the period 2021, as well as the NPOO project to improve the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of mobility need to introduce a European identity card for persons with disabilities and we have said much that the necessary preconditions are required for the creation of a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities and to prescribe the adoption of a Regulation on a European identity card for persons with disabilities which would be more detailedly regulated by the rules and the issue and use of the identity card itself. Now, this term is being introduced here, but not the way it's being implemented, so that part hasn't been done yet. Furthermore, as regards the very certificate referred to in Article. 18. We support these proposals, or amendments, which the colleague of Lukacic also submitted, so that we hope that this will be accepted because the certificate itself must nevertheless have its own purpose and purpose to prove the status of the person with disabilities itself. We were also told on the board when we talked about the amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, so I guess that's where it's going to get a little closer. We are witnessing that today many people with disabilities are forced to repeat skills in different systems in which they are trying to exercise their rights, and this is certainly not an example of rational availability of resources, it is also a burden for this sensitive population, and therefore we think that the possibility of issuing the status of persons with disabilities is practically missed, or once again we are calling for that status to be defined by that official certificate because if this certificate were indeed applied in the future in all systems in which persons with disabilities exercise their rights such as social, health, pension and other systems, it would certainly greatly rationalise the current mode of work and would reduce the burden and of the Institute for Skills, Health System, Institute for Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We expect this law to make it more accessible to the databases of different bodies, to exchange data between bodies in procedures that lead either at the request of persons with disabilities or under official duty, which should simplify administrative procedures with people with disabilities and facilitate the resolution of certain status issues such as proof of disability. We will support this law, but we still believe that what was said in the first reading and in the public consultation was to be respected and that it would still be a greater purpose of this law if these improvements had been introduced. Last time I spoke a little more detail in the individual debate on the problem of employment of disabled persons, so here I am not repeating myself, just a brief appeal to all employers who employ at least 20 workers they are obliged to hire a certain number of people with disabilities in a suitable workplace according to their own choice in appropriate working conditions, depending on the total number of employees and activities they carry out, and if they are not able to do so then there are substitute quotas, replacement solutions, if all is not respected then there are penalties. But here we appeal to people with disabilities wherever possible to work and to actually realize their full potential. I also mentioned in the replica of my colleague that there are actually many more things to be done on the ground, and so do parents of children. with developmental difficulties or disability. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] So we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112100	Thank you. Ms Ljubica Lukacic will speak finally in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go. Is he all right? It is. It's not? There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112101	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end I just want to say some things that may not have been, maybe I haven't been able to point out when I spoke on behalf of the club, so the amendment that I've tabled, and it's about a certificate issued by HZZ and one and another amendment, so they're in agreement with the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, so also with the Association of Persons with Disabilities. When it comes to cruel things for people with disabilities, we really do achieve a phenomenal cooperation and I will also thank the ministry that has responded and our calls to see, to agree that it is best to arrange for everyone to be satisfied. The Ministry of Health, as well as the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, which may be the most addressed by persons with disabilities because there is also social care within the ministry, as well as all other ministries where people with disabilities exercise their rights, indeed have an open door at all times for people with disabilities. Of course, it's not always possible to solve everything, but the important thing is that this door is open, that the government is a partner to people with disabilities. On this occasion, I would also like to say thank you to the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole that they are really partners with people with disabilities. Whenever we need something, we have someone to talk to, that's what's most important. Whether the outcome will be like this or not, that's another thing. You have to understand that sometimes people with disabilities think something should be their right to do something one way or another, maybe that's not possible, but that's why we're all here together to talk. This law will finally allow us to say that people with disabilities have their status, that they can prove that status. I'm two days ago and yesterday on some occasion and here in the Republic of Croatia prove my status as a disabled person. When I asked you to tell me which paper to put on, so what you have, I said I have more of it, I have two solutions from HZMO, one from the Social Care Centre, and I can always count on what I personally have. Then I said, "Let's put on everything I have, and let's make them choose." And how do you think that someone's gonna get there? Not at all. Not at all. They won't know what the evidence of disability is, then they'll have to call me, so I'll explain, you know, in the rules of art, etc., you have 13 documents that I can prove and, of course, will remain confused. So, this law will give us confirmation of a single public correction in the Republic of Croatia according to the General Administrative Procedure Act, the confirmation is a public document, we will be able to prove it, and then the Office will be able to issue a card on that basis so that perhaps all of this in the process of exercising any right any more easily. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who will vote in favour of this law and I believe that he will be brought here unanimously because he will make it easier for people with disabilities to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112102	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112103	Thank you very much. Here's what we could hear today, no matter what we had, and we still have different views on whether it's okay or whether people who are skilled by two rules are in the same register, all the clubs have declared that they will vote for this law. But let's see how we deal with our data, and I'll try to show it to you through an anecdote that my friend's father is working on Elektra. They introduced electricity into one section many, many years ago, and after six months they came to a grandmother and saw that she had spent only 1 kilowatt of electricity. And they ask Grandma you don't spend it at all, she says I'm only spending so much to see if I can light an oil girl. See, that's how we treat the data. We've made registers, we've got a lot of them in the Republic of Croatia, and then we don't use them. And now we have re-registries again and again we insist on paper certificates, documents and everything else, and we have everything digitally available. And I agree with Mrs. Luka, and I'm glad she gave that amendment, and we're all gonna support it that it needs to be confirmed. But why wouldn't that certificate be digital? Why don't you go to art. 18. It says that the certificate can be issued both in paper form and in digital form, why wouldn't the certificate be formed in real time? We have news on the portals today, soon we will be the whole of Croatia will be under 5G network. So speed maximum, 1 8 GB. The data will be available in a second, and we're spending money on paper. Why? Why burden our disabled people with having to come for confirmation? Why spend money on postage if they don't come for confirmation but send it by e-mail or some other way? For what? It's not a small cost, it's a big cost. Let's take an example of insurance that manages their money and spends their money, with them almost everything is digital. You have a digital card that's on your smartphone. Father, should we take the banks? You have digital business through and m-business and e-business and everything else. So it's just that all the jobs they could have taken out of their institutions with the aim of saving money. Well, let's go with the data. Let's use it. Let's define the business processes that are related to these data in a way that speed up processes, optimise themselves, spend less money, spend less people, have more quality information available, that we can give more information to others. Well, here's my appeal for a business secretary to be considered in Article 18 to allow it to say that the certificate can also be in digital form and that it can be obtained in real time through a service that will form in the office. This is not a big problem since communications exist as it is said that there are communications to other institutions, it is an additional job that can be done without major problems and the confirmation will be made available to anyone at any time, in real time. As far as the Social Democrats Club is concerned, we will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112104	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next and last item of the agenda after which the position will be put forward: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Electronic Correction, First Reading, P.Z. Number 272 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, first reading, were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information and Information and Media, State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society Mr Bernard Gršić is with us. Would you like to give an introduction? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112112	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, the adoption of the Law on Electronic Correction in 2005 adopted a change in the position of the legislation in relation to the impact of information technology on society and made it clear that the need to modernise the regulation of electronic regulated documents was made. So that was 2005. The approach taken in the drafting of the Law on Electronic Correction has taken the fundamental view that the document signed electronically should be regulated in our legal system as a special legal institute. This approach, even in 2005, was not comparatively viewed as dominant in other countries of a wider and narrow environment, but was then widely accepted as a premise that the legal validity and importance of electronic documents is achieved by provisions prohibiting their discrimination compared to those on paper, subject to the use of electronic signature guaranteeing the authenticity of content and authors through cryptographic methods. By adopting Regulation (EC) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, the text will speak on the so-called Regulation. EIDAS, the EU has created a common national framework for the European internal market for trust services, which is an electronic signature, electronic seal, time stamp, electronic delivery services and web site authentication through mutual recognition of those in all EU member states and equalisation of their legal status with traditional paper equivalents. This Regulation entered into force in Croatia in 2017 under the law implementing the same Regulation. It has made it possible to apply a different paradigm than the one occupied by the Law on the Electronic Correction of Electronicly Signed Document as a separate legal institute. During the period 2018 to 2021, the basis of the Regulation, as well as to date, the basis of the EIDAS Regulation and the implementing law of that Regulation have led to the use of electronic signatures as a trust service irrespective of the provisions of the Law on the electronic device. The provisions of EIDAS, Article 25, have been excluded from the practical application of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Correction by the occurrence of qualified certificates, electronic signatures and electronic stamps as trust services which have the same legal effect as the own-legal signature and are recognised in all Member States. The challenges that were discussed in technical and legal terms in 2000 have not been addressed in 2005, leading to the application by the public authorities and the judiciary in Croatia to the EIDAS Regulation and the implementing law in place of the Law on Electronic Correction. It has been amended in this direction and the General Administration Act which, inter alia, has brought into line with the EIDAS Regulation. The same case with the Office Business Regulation, which extensively replaced the archaic provisions of the Law on Electronic Correction in accordance with the EIDAS Regulation, and in particular those relating to the documentation cycle. It should also be pointed out that the rules adopted back 3 years in the field of archivism have fully regulated the mentioned topic and there is no need for it to be in the Law on the Electronic Correction. In July 2021, the Central Office for the Development of Digital Society established a working group with all relevant stakeholders. The Working Group concluded unanimously that the 2005 Electronic Correction Act had become obsolete by a regulation which did not comply with the EIDAS Regulation, which completely replaces it and which needs to be put out of force. The question of defining or interpreting the originator of the electronic document as a provision of the law in question will be replaced by the interpretation of the competent Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development as necessary. The adoption of this law follows the conclusion of that working group and the requirements arising in practice and encourages all bodies which have not yet been in line with the EIDAS Regulation to do so, which is why the Law on Electronic Correction is put out of effect only in May 2023. It is concluded that the Law on Electronic Correction has two key problems. One is to be based on a completely different paradigm than the EIDAS Regulation and the other is to call on the provisions of the Electronic Signature Act, which has been put out of force by way of the EIDAS Regulation and the law implementing that same Regulation. As the existing Law implementing the EIDAS Regulation actually fully assumes the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council itself and only shares the implementing powers between the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the adoption of such an implementing law would be unnecessary and contrary to the EU legal arrangement. It should also be pointed out here that the bodies of the public authorities and the judiciary already use the EIDAS Regulation or the trust service it prescribes in its legal and sublegal texts. In considering the procedure in the existing Law on Electronic Correction, it should be taken into account that the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament mentions that if more than half of the articles of the basic regulation are amended or complemented, it is necessary to access the adoption of new rules. Only the adoption of a new regulation would be contrary to the fact that, if the regulations are legal acts that are automatically applied in all Member States as soon as they enter into force and there is no need to transpose them into national legislation. They are fully binding in all Member States. The Law on the Electronic Correction which is in force leads to legal discrimination in relation to the EIDAS Regulation. The current regulation by the EIDAS Regulation and the implementing law of that Regulation are sufficient and there is in fact no obstacle to the continued application of this law and to repealing the law in question, which is the conclusion and working group for the drafting of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Correction. I would stress here that this Law on the termination of the Law on Electronic Correction has only 2 articles. One article that sets aside the 2005 Law on Electronic Correction and another article is to enter into force on 1 May 2023 precisely for the reason that all possible regulations, if any of them exist, could be brought into line with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112113	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Secretary of State, as you have said before us, is the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Electronic Correction. Given that the Republic of Croatia was among the first to pass the law in the EU why we are now removing it, which is exactly what it refers to even though one part of it has already been said in the introductions, but it also raises the question of what will happen to the electrical documents issued and the regulations that continue to be referred to the Law on Electronic Correction, so here I would ask if you could briefly explain these two things to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112115	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112116	Thank you very much. So in the presentation, I stated in detail why the law is actually proposed to put the law out of force. Because it is obsolete, because there are other laws and there is an EU regulation that regulates this area much better and better quality in the EU as well. It is true that Croatia was among the first to adopt, or in this way, the legal regulation of the electronic signature institute and that is this thing that has changed the European Parliament and Council Regulation again. It means using a qualified signature instead of a legal institute. And why are we taking him out now? So, it's been about 5 years since the law on the implementation of the EIDAS regulation in Croatia, so we're aware that one period has been removed and we're aware of that, we've estimated that right now the moment is that there are no more regulations who were, who were in power. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112117	Thank you. Mrs. Maskichuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112118	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here is the law of only 2 articles, as you yourself have said in the introduction, and my colleague, Mažar, asked me before that Croatia has passed this law among the first ones, why we now abolish it. Is there a danger of strengthening the confidence of digital communication by placing this law or by electronic means out of force... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112119	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112120	Thank you very much. So it doesn't exist. It's actually a theoretical practice. We rely on the EIDAS Regulation, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and no longer on the law that was prescribed in 2005 which mentioned what I mentioned in the previous reply was used by the legal institute, and here we use an electronic qualified signature that is actually identical to the own-signature. So a qualified electronic signature is identical to a government signature and is interpreted everywhere in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112121	Thank you. Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. Well, this decade in the EU is called a digital decade, and we know that the Republic of Croatia as one of its strategic objectives has a transformation of public administration in the digital context and in general society. I wonder if the financial resources that are secured can and follow those objectives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112123	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112124	Thank you very much. The Republic of Croatia has provided 20.4% of NPOO funding for digitisation through NPOO, and only for the segment of public administration and the development of digital society around three billion kunas during the NPOO implementation period. It would point out that the European Commission has declared that part of the NPOO an ambitious plan and we believe that we have enough resources to implement all the measures, it is only for us to implement them and be quick and efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112125	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112126	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law with two articles, which provides for a postponement of application until 1 May 2023 and how you have stated to avoid the creation of a possible legal gap. It is a little strange that we are discussing first reading soon in the second reading of an article that will take effect only in May next year, so I am curious about the problems we might encounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112127	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112128	Thank you very much. So, we see no problem in applying this law, but we have set a deadline with a delay in the application of the law precisely for the very reason that, possibly, if there are some other regulations that we have not detected and if there are some processes in some state bodies or organisations that use the provisions of the 2005 law. continue to adapt to the new way, i.e. that the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112129	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112130	My dear secretary. Here's a chance to ask you if you have any information about whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to free the payment of qualified citizen certificates when issuing a ID card?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112131	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112132	Thank you very much. So the electronic ID card has two certificates on it, one is an identification certificate, the other is a signed character. All citizens who raise or draw up an electronic identity card on an electronic identity card shall receive that certificate. So he is, of course, at the age at which the Law on Electronic I.D. was prescribed. This certificate is not charged further means it is for Croatian citizens in the framework of the issue of an electronic identity card, and it is possible to obtain a qualified electronic signature which is equally valuable to the government's signature.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112133	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112134	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my welcome to the secretary of state. In fact, in the good part, you have already asked what I wanted to ask in previous replicas very comprehensively and with technical details, but you may take the opportunity to mention just how this regulation, which is kind of regulated by what Croatia has already initiated among the first in the EU, but now in the whole EU area, helps to create and develop this European single digital market where, of course, Croatia sees its possibility, so perhaps in this context, if you want to comment on this and the importance of this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112135	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112136	Thank you very much. Therefore, the European Regulation adopted 2014 in Croatia, as of 2017, intensive communication has been under way on the whole of the European Commission, in fact, related to the upgrade or amendment of this existing regulation. Therefore, more than five years and more and certain processes in Europe have passed, but are changing elsewhere and require additional and security elements, as well as other elements of identification and signature that will be made possible through the new Regulation. It could only mention that working on a digital Wallet means that it will allow all EU citizens to have all their necessary documents, or that will be prescribed with them wherever necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112137	Thank you. Thank you very much. No more replicas for now, thank you. And would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zeljko Pavić, who will speak for the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112138	Since there aren't many pay phones, I won't be long either. My dear secretary. So the certificates on the ID card are charged 30 kuna, the ID card without a certificate can verify this on the MUP's website comes 70 kuna, the identity card with two certificates comes 100 kuna and the person asking for those certificates to be issued has to sign the contract with the Certificate Authority. So the certificates are charged. My question was whether you might have any idea whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to release the payment of our citizens of those certificates. You gave me an answer that wasn't right, so please check it out and send me a written answer. As far as this law is concerned, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112139	Is something going on in... When you're done, let me know so we can move on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay? Thank you. Mr. Luka Brcic, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112140	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, here is the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Electronic Correction, right at the beginning, so I don't forget to stress later the HDZ Club clearly supports this law, and we have had the opportunity to touch a little bit of the subject not so dear to us, which is paperwork or not to use the more difficult word red tape, and we know what it means only in our content. Few of us have not experienced the benefits under alleged signs of walking from office to office, long waiting in ranks, nervousness either for our personal documents, anywhere in any kind of economic project, and often unfortunately we witness that certain and businessmen are losing that original enthusiasm precisely because of this great paperwork so here is what it seems like to transform digital technology really for every praise. And that is why I welcome the work of the Central Office for the Development of Digital Society. There must be a lot of work ahead of them, but as we have had the opportunity to see here from the replicas, a lot has been done and seems to be, and it is important and important to stress that significant financial resources are provided precisely for this purpose. We heard the mention of 3 billion kunas even more. And it is also said that this period, this decade is also called a digital decade that will shape our societies, our way of doing business and the way we communicate with our institutions. Over the next few years, we said this would be one of the main strategic goals, meaning digital transformation of public administration, business of Croatian society, and here we also had the opportunity to hear and mention and archivistics. I would not, for some localpathic reasons, mention just a significant project in this context in the Split-Dalmatia County area as you know, and the reform of the public administration of the county has taken over until then the state offices of the administration and clearly there is a lot of documentation, it is a lot of archives that are often unregulated, not harmonised so that there is a Split-Dalmatia County, for example, among the first to go into the insurance of space in the Economic Area Dicmo and in the past 2 years we are, if I want to be, and I want to be picturesque means about a million objects or 4 kilometers of objects we technically prepared for here is the issue of a very short period when it will all be digitized and we know in which way all of our fellow citizens will speed up and make it more efficient and accessible themselves coming to certain documents. Since today's material and points are quite concise, contentive and in a short sense you've probably all read so that I won't repeat what the secretary of state said and what you've certainly read already as here, underline as one crucial conclusion. And this is that by adopting this law, there will be doubts about the conditions necessary for the recognition of electronic documents in legal traffic and compliance with the EIDAS regulations and national legislation will be brought into line with European acquis. We said that the current law was archaic and that is exactly the reason for this legal process and as I said at the beginning, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112141	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomislav Okroša, HDZ Representatives' Club is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112142	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, the adoption of the Law on Electronic Correction in 2005, took into account information technology on society and made aware of the need to modernise the regulation of electronic signed documents. The approach taken in the construction of the law has taken the fundamental view that the document signed electronically should be regulated in our legal system as a special legal institute. This approach was replaced by the new premise of the EIDAS Regulation resulting in the legal validity and importance of electronic documents being achieved by provisions prohibiting their discrimination compared to those on paper, subject to the use of electronic signature. The law requires the addressee to satisfy the elements of the electronic document which have been obsolete in a technological sense and to benefit from the terminology of the Law on Electronic Signature, which has been out of force since August 2017. And when defining certain concepts, it does not follow the modern technological legal framework. The Office Business Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2021 fully covers elements of the electronic document cycle under the EIDAS Regulation, which are set out in this law and provides for rules and measures of office in the conduct of the State administration’s tasks in accordance with that Regulation. The adoption of the law will result in the removal of the puzzling situation for law and regulation eIDAS holders, a reduction of the legal factical doubt on the conditions necessary for the recognition of electronic documents in legal traffic and compliance with the EIDAS Regulation or national legislation, will also be brought into line with the European acquis. The suspension of the entry into force of the law on 1 May 2023 is foreseen. In order to avoid the creation of any legal gaps, or to allow the authorities sufficient time to adapt the existing or new rules to which the matter in question will be fully regulated in accordance with that Regulation, eIDAS. Therefore, the need to remove from the legal order of the law is unnecessarily unnecessary since it has been adopted by the eIDAS Regulation and the law implementing that Regulation, whose legal application is binding and which, in a different way, regulate the matter in question. Those rules constitute a legal basis for the use in the national legislation of electronic qualified signatures and electronic seals as trust services which have the same legal effect as governmental signatures and are recognised in all EU Member States. We clearly see two directions from the reasons of the legislator, the first relief from business in Croatia, and the second is to comply with the EU directive. In both cases, it is a positive effect that this law on the abolition of the second outdated law will achieve. By talking to domestic entrepreneurs and small craftsmen, we often hear complaints about the excessiveness and red tape of the Croatian economy. This reduces the number of these standards, and this also eases bureaucratic pressure on all of them. In addition to the adoption of this law, we will step up with modern technologies and help our entrepreneurs and craftsmen to make their business easier. In addition, I would like to point out that recently published research has shown that Croatia is growing on the scales of freedom and ease of business, specifically according to the Heritage Foundation data for Croatia, it is evident that the index of economic freedom is growing. With this in mind, let us keep Croatia on track and pass this law unanimously in order to enable all our entrepreneurs and craftsmen to operate even easier. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-20-0.u112143	Thank you, too. That's how I close the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
