ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82874	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure the first addition of the agenda of the 10th session with point Final Proposal of the Law on settlements, second reading of P.Z. No. 171. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. As there was no objection to the proposal to supplement the agenda, I note that the proposed item is included in the agenda of the 10th session. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ before we go, I don't know what you need.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82875	I have a question. Dear President HS, 5 days ago, we handed over 410,000 signatures for the "We Decision Together" initiative and also so many signatures for the "Enough of Post-Corruption" initiative. We also handed you a request for a referendum. Two days after we announced that we had collected the necessary number of signatures your Prime Minister publicly called us out for why we didn't come to Mark's square to count the signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82876	Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, please, please, please, we won't, we won't give political speeches now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82877	I'll just say it, so I'll be very specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82878	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82879	No procedures have been initiated, so neither has the Constitution Committee been called to propose a decision on who will count the signatures. Why do you play the will of the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82880	Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, please sit down. Niko, let's do this. First, we won't be calling ourselves now how long you've been collecting signatures and how long this procedure has been going on, so I haven't asked you that question, you've stuck to the law, so now we'll all stick to the law here. And it is not true that no procedure has been initiated because I have already referred from my office the day after you submitted your signatures to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of memos where you seek a referendum with a request for a referendum and with a report on the handover of the signature. So it went towards the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. They will call for a session and then, with the conclusion, they will head towards the plenary session HS and all will take place in accordance with the legally foreseen deadlines. I don't know what you want or what's controversial about it. Comrade Thunder, you have two warnings, you will get a third now because there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. This whole thing that's happening right now has nothing to do with what we're supposed to do right now. Come in, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82881	So, dear President HS, a large number of people signed for this referendum, and we certainly won't be able to watch you stall this process. Have the Chairman of the Constitution Committee call a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82882	You're getting a fellow Grmoy, please give me a third warning. And please stop calling who you've spent so much time bringing those signatures to HS at all. Now, from day one, you're already putting pressure on why something doesn't seem what you want it to be. It seems to be in accordance with the procedure. Since I received your signatures, since we had a meeting, I sent a letter immediately to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Now what should we all run to get it over with? So please, please, please think about how you did and how you expect the other side to work. They'll make a council all in accordance with the law and not as long as you've done it, but much faster, and don't put pressure on it after, we won't forget how it went on with you. So if you'd asked me that after three weeks then it would have had some basis, but now after the first day, it really doesn't make any sense. You can't do that anymore because you've got three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, three warnings, or so you can't speak. My colleague Selak Rasdic, please. You're doing all of this outside, even the intended Rules of Procedure, this isn't the subject right now, now we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82884	That's right, but that's the task of HS, the board has neither called nor announced a session. It doesn't cost you anything or technically you have to wait for it. Commence procedure, That's all I'm looking for. [[Intruder: colleagues Selak Rasudić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82885	Please, sit down, you're getting a warning. You don't have any so far, you can move on. So everything will be done in accordance with the law and in accordance with reasonable deadlines. A colleague of Bošnjakovic is here, will probably call the board, I guess next week and submit a request for a session, i.e. a debate at the plenary session. We're going to vote now. Just give me a second, please. Wait a minute. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 125(3) of the Rules of Procedure states that the item on the agenda of the proposal to raise the issue of trust to Darko Horvat, Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is included. The proposals are 62 MPs in HS. It came now during the debate. Since the Rules of Procedure stipulates that it should be put into the agenda immediately, that is what we are now doing. We start on Wednesday next week with the Final Proposal of the Law on Notification Procedures in the field of technical regulations and regulations on Information Society Services, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 185. Thank you, everyone. I'll see you Wednesday. Session adjourned at 3:11 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82970	As we agreed earlier, we would move to deliver a position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, so the first one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82971	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and distinguished colleagues. In these five minutes, I will look back at the current state or condition that has been going on for some time in HNK Varazdin. In fact, the city of Varazdin does not want to publish documents at the moment, claims that administrative supervision of the Ministry of Culture is under way, so we cannot see these documents publicly, but anyone who makes little effort can come up with extremely worrying data. The current director of theatre and theatre and budget of nearly 14 million kuna, according to reports or audit findings, manages itself, has no business director who would look at the costs and control them. In addition to business, HNK Varazdin has no artistic director, and the head of the Theatre Council until the local elections in May was a technology technician. The members of the Council were transport engineers and local journalists. They gave the current principal a new mandate in her 69 years. A prominent theatre expert, Senko Bulic, was quickly sent away, noting that the programme she presented had not been sufficiently elaborated. Members of the Council who have no contact with theatre art at the Theatre Council appointed the city of Varazdin, again illegal because none of them, as prescribed by the law and the statutes, is a prominent cultural worker. The change of government in the Council has appointed people from the profession headed by the former ingenuity. The New Theatre Council has also requested a new revision, which the city has sent, but the results have been defeated. The theatre has detected legal unrest, according to employees, for a full 7 years, since the status of the national theatre and the arrival of the current director at the head of HNK Varazdin since 2005, so there is no and has never had a key person in 7 years for the business of the national theatre house, art and business director. The work of the art director was done by counselors, the two of them. Both employees at other jobs, at the Theatre, worked on a contract of action. In their contracts, they also obtained the right to do jobs that fall within the scope of the art directorship, which are not allowed by the Act Treaty. This year's audit found that more than 113 thousand kuna were received for advisory services in 2019 and 2020. One of these persons is a regular employee of the Academy of Drama Arts in Zagreb and the right hand of the current director, often in an recorded conflict of interest. This person does the program, determines the titles, to share roles, chooses external associates, and has chosen himself several times as an external co-worker in the theatre. The counselor made good money on the directors, decided that he directed the play as a director. You paid more than 24,000 kuna for one of the shows. For the planned, delayed, then eventually missing from the repertoire, the show of Snow, it was supposed to get another 73,000 kuna. He preferred outside actors, the ensemble mostly sat at home. This Regulation The audit shows that visiting actors have been spent close to 150 thousand kuna. Some of the actors from the Ensemble were upset because they hadn't played a single play at the home theater in a year. On the salary and travel expenses of actors who have not played a single play, more than a million kunas have been spent. If the salaries were calculated according to the number of hours worked, the audit showed, the cost would be only 75 thousand. Let us also listen to the voice of the prominent theatre family, not only the Varazdin family, but also the Croatian family Kerekesh, who has been seeking to achieve one of the first private theatres in Croatia over the past few years, on which we congratulate them from the heart because we know what they have been through to get a building permit for now, we wish them much happiness in this project. A member of the Kerekesh family said, I have just left from HNK Varazdin because of people now being led by controversy and whose mismanagement of Theatre and repertoire has been indicated for a long time. The artistic advisor does not know Varazdin and should not have done repertoires for HNK in Varazdin because there are too many bad shows and does not attract the audience. Shows cost 2 or 3 hundreds of thousands of kunas, and only a few times. For 13 million kunas a year, responsibility must be borne. Actors are not allowed to receive salaries without coming to work in their home theater. It is fully justified that everything I have just said here, you can find it in the findings of the audits, wait for their publication, and in the meantime we will once again ask ourselves the traditional Croatian question, does everything have to ruin politics?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82972	Thank you very much. A colleague, Habiban, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82973	I thank the Honorable Vice President, I'll risk your warning, but here they are, he's hurt. 238, thus numerous slanders and insults, especially given that an intensifier who ends her term in the 2nd term restored the whole theatre, so the concert hall, the theatre, established the status of the national theatre, based on these incorrect, defamatory and offensive statements in HS about this person is indeed, I find it absolutely unacceptable, especially since some of the allegations which pointed out the persons who had personal ambitions to take over the theatre, therefore, before speaking about HNK in Varazdin, ask around, read both sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82974	Thank you. And that was a typical replica, so, of course, I have to give you a heads-up. Comrade Dretar, you are the same Raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[There you go. Two hundred and thirty-eight, one more time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82975	And of course, with great pleasure to receive a warning and use this as a replica, I am aware. Dear Representative Habib, what I've presented is the results of the audits. This is not invented by Davor Dretar, you can also see this on the site of the City Initiative is ours, the Varazdinese, and on the pages "Varaždin waste", so what we know for sure is that a new love for the respected lady is currently being prepared. Director, well, I can say anything at all, and I heard that in the Varazdin HNK and the current mayor had certain interesting activities [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So maybe you'd better be quiet. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u82976	And it's this typical replica, I beg you, let's not abuse the rules of the Rules of Procedure. This, in particular, taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives is someone of a kind, which was once in London, no longer exists, Hyde Park Corner so this one, in fact, can be talked about various topics and for so long until a certain limit is crossed, is allowed to speak with anything we agree with or disagree with. And now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83095	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We often hear from the right side of the assembly about how unconstructive the opposition is, how the recovery only criticises, how it does not suggest anything, how easy it is to say what is bad, and how we do not have solutions. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we had a good part of yesterday's debate on amendments exactly and unconstructive committees on a whole set of laws, among them the Social Care Act, to which members and clubs of the opposition have tabled over 100 amendments. You know how many amendments have been adopted by these rulings who want to be or who want to have a dialogue with the opposition, who want a consensus, who want a constructive dialogue, you know how many they've adopted, zero, no one. Well, colleagues and colleagues, I simply refuse to believe that everything the opposition has suggested is bad, inexhaustible, inexhaustible and with bad intentions. I just can't believe it, and nobody can convince me that more than 100 amendments, so for all the laws somewhere around 150 amendments, none of them deserve the attention of the ruling and adoption. Yes, some have been adopted in a partial form, but you know when, after the amendments of members or members of the ruling ones have been adopted, very wonderful. So much for the constructiveness of the ruling and so much for talking to them. Among the unadopted amendments submitted by several clubs and individuals is one of the amendments to the Household Act. In this assembly and working bodies, we often like to criticise neighbouring states that do not respect the decisions of the constitutional court, in particular BiH, while by example or by ruling their own example show how this is done, how the rulings of the constitutional court are ignored and how other laws that are in force, which have been voted upon, some of them both in the days of the current rulings, and how the entire legal order of Croatia is actually ignored. In fact, the Household Act remains unrecognizable or unlikely because the ruling amendment refused so that I believe that they will obediently raise their hands against foster parents being out-of-marriage friends or formal or not formal life partners. This, according to the Life Partnership Act, should be so because we ourselves know that, unfortunately, a very large number of children are awaiting adoption or adoption. Most couples, when they want to adopt, want to adopt their only-born white baby. But for children of other ages or other skin colors, the most common adoptors are gone, and they are in the system forever or as long as they can be. You have one population, and these are same sex couples and formal or not formal life partners who want to adopt and foster not only born white babies but also other children. We also have recent examples that children are fostered in same-sex families and nothing has happened to them, have not become homosexuals, have not been harassed, live in the love and attention of their parents or foster parents as they should, and we are unable to comply with the Law on foster care with the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia and with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. What does it say about rulers? We're talking about the demographics of a colleague and a colleague, and we've often talked about demographics in the last two weeks. We talked about vulnerable groups, about children growing up unfortunately in the system, not in families. And here you have populations of people who want to adopt and foster because the foster home is chronically missing and what are we doing? We ignore that, we don't comply with the legislation. Well, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, I'll just tell you that you're hypocritical and I wonder if the prime minister will boast of this in Brussels or where he's supposed to have a great reputation. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you once again, to support not only this amendment there are others who believe they deserve support, do not just be party listeners but really do something that is useful for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83163	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83164	I thank the chairman. One direct question, Minister Coric. Minister Ćorić, when will you start the recovery of the dangerous scum in the Long War factory that you are legally required to do? You have already been notified to the European Commission for the violation of 13 directives in the field of environmental protection. Will you in your inaction cause Croatia's taxpayers to pay a daily fine of 500,000 euros to the European Commission as Poland has just been fined in a similar case? The space of the former Ferrolegura factory Dalmatia Dugi Rat was sold to the investor company Project Uvala, the investor earned from the sale of valuable raw materials that he illegally extracted from the rest of Ferolegura in the factory area, and left behind a dangerous cost and a slag behind, to remind you. According to the contract, the investor was obliged to recover the hazardous cost by the end of 2019, but did not. Following the Environmental Protection Act, the obligation was to take over the state and to resuscitate the area. It wasn't done until today. I have proposed, and we have proposed on behalf of the amendment club to the budget, the state budget to save the education of the ministry and prevent high European penalties, and this amendment in the state budget should introduce a financial item of 15 million kuna to ensure that the resolution is implemented. The existing recovery programme needs to be updated, and new assessments suggest that the value of the recovery is about 35 million kuna and can be carried out within three years. The amendment was rejected by your ministry, but news came to the media within days from an anonymous member of the ministry's ministry's ministry that the ministry will still launch a resolution. I guess you've been afraid of a European public prosecutor or OLAF who's been walking around other ministries lately and punishing those who aren't doing their job right, but we don't see any progress from the news in the media. The media even asked you directly at some presses, you said you'd know everything in the coming weeks, so that next week is over. Minister Coric, when are you going to launch a recovery of a dangerous slag in the area of the former Dugi Rat factory, what do you have to do by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83300	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83301	Thank you. So what marks fellow Deur this government it's not just corruption, it's not just corruption scandals, it's absolute incompetence. The inability to withdraw funds to rebuild where the European Commission, although the prime minister was strutting like a turkey that he will now publish some photos, is now a question of whether he is calling mom or actually talking to EU officials because we see that they are not holding much of it. So, your inability is what costs Croatian citizens even more. You refer Zagreb's new Zagreb government to the fact that it is anti-family-oriented, I agree with you, but is it responsible for all this eviction from Croatia? Who is responsible that you will now have to complete election units by order of the Constitutional Court because we have 100,000 voters less in Slavonic election units? Who moved these people out that now Slavonia is going to give unfortunately less parliamentary representatives to HS? You are responsible for this, not a single demographic measure you have specifically offered. The only political option that was presented a whole, whole demographic programme a few days ago is MOST. What are you doing? You do corruption, you do crime. And now we have Minister Fuchs, government and 70 million kuna headquarters to test the children. The tests will be shared on parents, the parents don't even have to test the children. Why, for someone from HDZ to settle down, and schools don't even have basic supplies. Teachers and teachers have low wages and you're throwing money around to get someone on those tests to make money. Enough of these crazy measures. Minister Maric has just made a statement saying we have a problem we will have public service paralysis due to omicron. You know what I'm going to suggest? Enter Covid certificates into public services, and you have already introduced them and these are the results. So you've already introduced them and that's the result of your policy. So, shame, shame on you. You know where you're just up-to-date? You're up-to-date in arresting people. A man wrote a benign comment on social networks for 72 years, and the police arrested him and Plenkovic said I didn't, Bozinovic said he didn't give Plenkovic a warrant, and I'm asking you a question about who gave the warrant. Who follows what people write on social networks and who says this is a threat, this isn't a threat? You know who, you've exposed yourself, the Zadar HDZ in its statement says that Custic was being checked out by his neighbors and that the announcement on his social networks made it clear that he was a supporter of the Petrova and Bulja sect, so he's probably a state-run enemy like he used to be, and he should be arrested. I'm asking a question here from this place to the Zadar police. Did the Zadar HDZ report to Custic, did they intervene that because of the arrest of a man's supporter of MOST? Dear people, be careful what you write on social networks. We started yesterday with the publication of these eggs on social networks because apparently this egg has become a symbol of revolution against this international corrupt government and an incompetent government that is doing everything to drive people out of Croatia. And another question for you vice president of the assembly. On Monday we submitted the signatures, 5 days have passed you have not yet called the Committee on the Constitution to say and decide when you will begin counting the signatures and who will count the signatures for the abolition of this compromised headquarters, the discriminatory Covid certificate we see that even in the public services did not contribute to stopping the spread of the infection. And Plenkovic told us after two days to land the signatures on Mark's square, you didn't even make a decision when it would begin to count or who would count the signatures. And at the end of the messages to Grlic Radman, he says he would tell his son don't be like Grmoja, I'm proud that Grlic Radman and such, such shovels from the communist regime whose parents were communist directors tell their children don't be like Grmoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83302	Thank you very much. You've gone a little over the top of your head if you're still saying to people that they're shovels, if you think they're thieves you're bound to report them as thieves, that's your obligation. That they're thieves, that the Throat Radman is a thief. [[Intruder: I reported it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83303	... and hides behind immunity, remove his immunity, and we'll see if he's clean. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83304	No, I'm just saying that the claim that someone's a thief you actually have to report is, otherwise you're Is, uh, I doubt it, I don't honestly believe it. [[Aggression: He's registered, he's registered.]] And this thing that you asked me you know that I don't decide when something comes on the agenda or doesn't come and how many counts it is, and I'm not asking you what you've been doing for a month and a half with those signatures, but good. This one we've got somewhere, a respected representative named Deur has come forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: A month.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83305	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed Grmoy the other day on an hour's show about your honesty even in person and what you did in Metkovic for almost an hour was a debate, it would have been good if you'd listened to it because you'd have a little more understanding and humanity in you. After the debate in HDZ, twice you were in the government, you showed incompetence, ignorance and corruption personally and at the beginning, show all those finances that you as a party where you didn't know where you belonged except what you wanted power and insult as you do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83306	Thank you very much. You're aware that this is a replica, so I'm giving you a warning, please let's not go to free speech with replicas now. It's not appropriate, it's not good and it doesn't make sense. This replicator also reported to the esteemed representative of Sashlin, a pardon for the violation of the Rules of Procedure... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I feel like I'm still running a session, and not you, my colleague Grumoja, I know you'd like to run everything and everything, the universe as a whole, but at this point I'm running a session. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go, Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83307	Mr. Vice-President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been injured by Article 238, because indeed Mr. Representative insults me, and I believe the vast majority of parliamentary deputies by bringing out heavy untruths, heavy insinuations by creating a completely distorted negative picture of the Republic not only in Croatia, but you have now started to do so internationally. And it is with this kind of behavior that you contribute to the spread of defetism, the spread of one hopelessness in Croatia, that young people leave and leave when they see such as you in the Croatian Parliament Then what we have here to look for, let's go outside. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83308	Thank you very much and it wasn't, it was also a replica, and you get a warning. You and your colleague, Grumo, have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83309	Yes, Article 238 has been injured. Colinda Grabar Kitarović, a colleague of Deur, has been presented with a series of lies, and is referred to a show of parading patriot Velimir Bujanc, who pushed along with him to become someone who was not wanted by Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Then he pushed Miroslav Skora, who was a doctor, and suddenly Miroslav Skoro became undesirable. I'm glad they're shooting shows about me and giving me this one hour at a time, Velimir Bujanec and so on. You'll be back soon, you'll be back at your club soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83310	Thank you, thank you very much. Well, it's also a replica and you get a warning. I'm asking you nicely, let's stop it, let's stop it, let's stop it, please, it doesn't make any sense. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83311	Thank you, Vice President. 238, false...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83312	Please don't yell from the bench. Calm down at last, so what's wrong with you? ... Well, that's not how he behaves in the assembly. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] All right, all right, but you don't need to yell about it from the bench. [[- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83313	Thank you, Vice President. 238, re-conventional in the assembly of false, incorrect, esteemed. I wasn't talking about the leader, but I was talking about a guest who is extremely well-known as Mr. Grmoja's instructions and knowledge of knowledge, so this gentleman has knowledge of what you've been doing and your party looking at power and trying to come to power at any cost, not knowing. I believe you've been a little bit on Pantovac, and I see you're using some words, so it would be good if a little while longer, that Mr. Rasdic, the well-respected Mr. Rasdic would give you some more guidance as your party chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83314	Thank you very much, this one we understand was a replica again, you get a warning. I'm asking you nicely, let's stop it, please, let's stop it. My colleague Grumo, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83315	Yeah, it's just an injury. 238, when they see Shaschlin and Grlica-Radman, all young people want to stay in Croatia. So I, here I just wanted this one to agree with this statement, when he is seen, when young people see him, when they see Grlic-Radman, everyone wants to stay in Croatia, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83316	All right, let's go, you're getting a sure thing. Let's stop this nonsense literally, I have no other word for it. The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, and will be spoken by respected representative Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83387	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am today going to talk about the topic that I have already discussed for this speaker many times, but as long as I study medicine at the University of Pula doesn't get an unanimity from the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, I won't stop talking about this topic because I think that only the National Council that should be independent, the highest body in the science and higher education system in the Republic of Croatia has come out of its legal powers and started playing political games that have nothing to do with its profession. Yesterday, at least here at the Assembly benches, we had a proposal of the Science Foundation Act, where our main grudge as the SDP Club was that we didn't want the Science Foundation itself to go into control, the legality of the work to go under the supervision of the Resort Ministry, but we want it to remain in HS. That is exactly the case with the National Science Council, which is actually responsible for its work to the relevant Assembly Committee on Education and HS, which has also voted on the members of that body. I must say that what the National Council is doing in terms of granting consent to a medical study at a pulse university is really beyond the limits of common sense, and since more than 2500 doctors and 4500 nurses and technicians are missing in Croatia. I will remind, therefore, that, in fact, all the legal preconditions that have been valorised by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, but also by the Resort Ministry with its working group, and that the proposed study of medicine and the study itself with all the contributions has received all the positive approvals from the reviewers and international experts who evaluated this programme, however, as it is usually in our country, for some reason persistently repeated at the National Council meetings, and I must say that the newspaper in relation to the last time I spoke, is that the National Council session was held in December, that there is a report at that session of a committee which only the National Council voted with each other, the Committee for the Report on Medical Studies in Pula, and that only the National Council said that it was a 95 % positive report, that there were 3 fewer objections, which would be submitted to the vote and could be given to the vote. I don't really know this, whether this is an indication they're delivering to the University of Pulse and the Assembly Committee on Education, which requested on my initiative on December 6th, whether they're delivering it through a dove writer or otherwise, but neither to the Assembly Committee on Education, nor to the Pula University, the National Council on Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and I must say that the next session of the National Council was scheduled for January 31st, so on Monday, and yet we didn't get any indication. So I have to express concern that it would be that this National Council corresponds to the Resoring Ministry as it is now trying to do with the Science Foundation itself, since it is evident that some bodies established by HS, which have also been established by various of our institutions in the system of science and higher education, they actually feel that they do not need to answer to anyone. Here, we have, for example, I don't know how many times we've looked at the Assembly Education Committee to deliver a report from the University Senate, from the University Council of Zagreb, we haven't received an answer. So in this case, the National Council for Science has not delivered for a month, be careful, does not provide any indication to the body to which they are directly responsible. If this is not a violation of the law, legal regulations, sublegal acts, I don't know what it is then, but key what it is, is that at the Catholic University, where the same criteria were, the National Council approved a study of medicine, the fact that they already have students of medicine there, and we all know well that there is already one medical school in Zagreb, a whole new hospital was built in Pula, and we won't have anyone to treat people because we are disabled with these staffs and do not allow us to train medical staff in the Istrian County and to have the same level of health care as the rest of the population of the Republic. It's not fair or fair, it's fair. or in accordance with the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83388	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Ante Deur, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83472	Mr. President, dear colleagues, colleagues. Here is Croatia, like the whole of Europe, the old continent, but not in its own existence, but in its old age, the population that lives on that territory. The issue of demographic renewal, and the last census of the population, is a serious issue and should not be something that anyone can play with or try to use populist transparent measures to patch up holes or build their political career on. In Croatia, far fewer children have been born compared to the number of deaths. It is clear that investing in an increase in the number of newborn children is one of the keys to solving this problem. And while at national level, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has various measures to encourage parents and create conditions for family enlargement in the largest city of Zagreb, the situation is quite the other way around. The first move of the current mayor Tomasevic and his team could have been to abolish the parent-raiser measure. Why? Are there no bigger and more serious problems in the city of Zagreb? It is difficult not to notice the relationship and the frantic resemblance of this We can move with the SDP's move and its six-member coalition after winning power in 2000. Their first move in that term was to cut birth benefits. Unfortunately, here in HS these years, the mothers have been stigmatized as non-working women standing at home, receiving compensation and doing nothing. One of the SDPs at the time even advised them to iron at night when electricity is cheaper. It has changed fortunately since then, the SDP's disastrous move, and it has shown that many analyses paid by the express loss of choice, but we can only learn because if they had any knowledge or political experience, they would know that the mistakes of punishing children pay dearly. They show their ignorance by reducing one-time support for the birth of children, eliminating parent-teacher measures, and they offer no concrete replacement solutions. In fact, Tomašević and We know the difference between social demographic measures, so they all put it in the same basket under some kind of umbrella of justice without it being so. Therefore, after the suspension of the parent-gatherer measures, the other problems do not have enough space in kindergartens. Here's an example of my electoral unit from my worlds. According to the last census, the city district has 72,117 residents on the last list, if we were the fifth city in Croatia. We have four towns and six private kindergartens. There were only a dozen places available two weeks ago, and it takes such that the Sesvets need at least a few kindergartens. Now it's the Holy King and the Kashin, unfortunately we don't know when it's going to be or whether this city power will ever do it. On the other side of the Badel zone and the Sljeme zone, which gawks empty even worse, stand empty without any of them We can in Zagreb, there are cleanliness services in Zagreb, which is what some civil society organisations have warned about. The problem is also with primary and secondary schools in Sesvete, 10 elementary schools, one high school, one high school technical school and music. The profession should be told whether it is more favourable to build new schools or build on existing schools, but what is certain is that all schools need to pass energy recovery, be safe for children and sustainable ones, of course they should have the opportunity to stay longer and up to 4th grade equipped kitchens, the quality of menus and schools receive the necessary money from the city quarter of the office, so very often children suffer. Should anyone be surprised to know that the government can treat children like this both the weakest and the most needed. Instead of investing in some ideological curricula, it would have been far more meaningful if the Zagreb government had employed every school per employee who worked on eu projects and thus provided schools with the means to develop and promote quality, logopedes, defecologists, help assistants to continue to disappear chronically because today two kindergartens share a logo, and many schools do not have them at all. We must do everything in our neighborhood to make this situation change. We will have a public debate, include all relevant participants in order to force the city government to improve the situation in kindergartens and schools in our district. The kindergartens and schools must be available to everyone, the quality of education and education It has to be high-level. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83473	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83548	Good afternoon. Yesterday in the Parliament, Gordan Jandrokovic called for the need, quote, historical truths, to hardly mention Ustasha crimes in his holocaust speech, not to mention in any word the NoB and Partisans as those who freed us from Ustasha and fascists. While in that same Parliament, the Ustashas are called the Croatian Army, we cannot talk about the historical truth. Yesterday we remembered the Holocaust, the greatest barbarism in the history of the world in which in World War II, Nazi Germany and their associates, such as Ustasha, brutally killed 6 million Jews, and in addition at least half a million Roma and countless others. In Croatia there is a very common hypocritical attitude towards the holocaust, holocaust official policy is recognised but other victims are often ignored and relativated, especially Serbs as victims of our local fascist group of Ustashas. If we live in Croatia, and not in Germany, one who does not talk about Ustashas and all their victims has no right to speak to Serbs about the Holocaust. It is hypocritical to talk about the Holocaust, while at the same time allowing not only to but also to finance the auditist views of World War II in our country, finance the suspension of Bleiburg, the rise of the Ustasha monuments in Mirogoje, talk about Ustashas as the Croatian army, equalise the killings of civilians and war retaliation of the slaughterers, etc. Any relativization of NDH and Ustasha is automatically spit in the face of all the victims of the Holocaust as well as all those partisans and the folk-free movement that heroically in World War II freed us from the authorities of the beasts committed by the Holocaust, the Nazis and their allies and fellow Ustashas, Chetniks and others. So I hope that next year when the president of this assembly reads about the holocaust article, tells us how to hold on to historical truths, I hope that he will mention those to be mentioned in such speeches, not to relativize historical facts, and then talk about some historical truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83549	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a respected representative, Zekanovic. What's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83550	Of course Article 238, I would like to have respected colleagues that you also said when you marked the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust to mention the crossroad of Jazovka, Hude Cave and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83551	Of course, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. All right, now we're done taking a stand and we're gonna take a break by 12 hours and the vote is scheduled. It's 11:00.39. The next club of representatives will be the one for Fair Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83672	Your Honor. The latest census in the Republic of Croatia shows that Croatia is our demographically devastated country that is experiencing perhaps the biggest crisis in its history. The crisis has affected all layers of society, and it has been particularly difficult to hit young people, unemployed, families with more children and older populations. The depth of the crisis is best witnessed by the following indicators, first of all over 500,000 people, most young people working in Croatia have moved out of Croatia, more than 240,000 of our fellow citizens are at stake. The smallest number of newborn children in the history of the Republic of Croatia. There is a financial collapse of the health system, corruption, crime and nepotism destroying society, the lack of the functioning of the rule of law, the judiciary and the DORH, the completely devastated institution of the state, above all I think of the ministries, the loss of international reputation of the Republic of Croatia, the breach of partnership with the strategic partner of the United States, the inability to protect the interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and in particular in BiH. Because of all this, it can be said that Croatia is in a deep crisis both within the political and foreign policy fields, this is due to poor management of available resources, lack of a vision of development and the network of society through corruption and political crime. Every day, the institutions of society are designed and planned to devastate and obstruct the work of the judiciary. Croatia is the country with the weakest rule of law within the EU. We are the worst country in the EU to focus on improving the quality of life of our citizens. The Justice Club for Croatia represents the opinion that such a model of governance is being spent. We believe that Croatia needs first of all the construction of independent institutions, and I mean the DORH and, of course, the Assembly. Strong fight against corruption, political crime and nepotism, law-making in the interests of fair legislation for all citizens, I mean the Executive Law, the Law on Referendum and other laws, then the abolition of all laws that prevent the development of free entrepreneurship, the reform of the health system by human beings, financial, but also organisational, then the construction of a social state which is also a constitutional category. It is necessary to adopt a new Electoral Law, functional optimisation of electoral units according to the number of inhabitants, constitutional arrangement of relations between the institutions of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the Republic of Croatia, strong support for the entry into the Eurozone and the Schengen area, strong support for the strategic partnership of the Republic of Croatia with the EU, NATO and the United States, strong promotion of policies that will create conditions for the return of evicted Croats, then an international political push to change the electoral law within BiH, and a serious and continuous approach to the construction of Croatia that will recognise the potential of rural space and from the country of food importer to become a country of oasis of domestic, locally produced healthy food for the needs of its population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u83712	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] Sunday of Mihanovic who died in 92. Life. Nedjeljko Mihanovic was born on 16 February 1930 in Sitno Donji near Split. After graduating from the classical high school in Split, he graduated from Slavics and Romanism in 1958 at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb where he received his doctorate in 1975. He worked as a lecturer of Slavics in Hamburg, and until 1990 he was a scientific advisor and manager of the Croatian Literature History Institute where he was elected a member of the HAZU associate. At that time, it also actively participates in democratic change and the creation of an independent and sovereign Croatian state. He was elected three times for Parliament's representative in 1990, '92. and '95. The greatest honor was given to him by colleagues and fellow MPs when he was in 1994. He chose to be the third president of HS. During the term of office of President Mihanovic, Croatia won military victories in the operations of Flash and Storm that led to the end of the Homeland War. In these challenging times HS led by Mr. Mihanovic successfully carried out all its legislative activities with the aim of continuing the construction of the Croatian state and institutions and democratisation of society. Dr. Mihanovic throughout his life trip, especially in the crucial years of modern Croatian history, has shown high moral responsibility and professionalism towards all the duties he has performed, which is confirmed by 7 state honours. Public well-being and Croatian national interests were always ahead of his personal interests. That is why HS will proudly bear his memory, and the Croatian public will remember him with a sense of gratitude. He was a man of firm conviction, a prominent intellectual, a writer and patriot. Everyone who knew him speaks of an extremely good, noble and dear man. On behalf of all MPs and MPs in HS and in my personal name to the bereaved family, I once again express my deepest condolences. Now I ask you to stand up and honor Mr. Sunday Mihanovic, the third president of HS for a moment of silence. ... Let him be the easy Croatian country he loved so much. [[One minute of silence.]] Now let's vote on the points discussed. First, the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the EU Council meetings held in 2021, the applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the EU Council meetings held in 2021. Excuse me, are you looking for a break on this wheel? Then we stop the vote, we go with requests for a break. She's my first colleague, Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84312	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club. We are all aware that inflation and rising gas prices today are the topic that justifiably occupys our citizens the most. Even a mere kitchen, a place that could have fed the hungry before, has no money left to maintain itself. The situation is so dramatic. And we wonder how this happened and what our prime minister did to prevent it. This report tells us all about it. In October, when the EU discussed reducing taxation and other measures that would allow citizens to overcome the energy crisis, do you know how our prime minister fought for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? You think he was offering tax reduction models? Protecting our consumers or some of the EU's joint appearance that would lead to a reduction in energy prices? Of course not. He just said that we view gas as a transitional phase towards renewable energy sources and that's all he said. That's how he fought for the interests of Croatian citizens. Is your gas bothering you? Is inflation bothering you? If you don't have a circle, eat cookies, if you don't have gas, put on solar panels. As he dealt with modern topics, the price of gas grew and inflation brought us now where we are. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as the EU's centre fought for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, let's ask ourselves why we have so much inflation today, did the government do everything it could.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84313	Stanka has been approved, Comrade Sacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84314	We are looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes in order to re-analyze and propose to this High House, i.e. to the Croatian public a solution to the confusing, incomprehensible state in which our leadership brings us, which is the executive authorities, in front of the domestic and international public, in view of the current most dangerous crisis for world peace and, this is the Ukrainian crisis, because it is amazing that such contradictory and confusing messages are being sent to the Croatian public and to the international public, that one part of our executive government is speaking and favouring one position, and the other part for others. In particular, it is amazing that we do not have a single view of how the Ukrainian people, in the state of Ukraine, should give absolute support to the protection of its sovereignty and survival, and on the other hand, we do not consider that our membership in NATO is defined as a way to be an alliance in certain aspects, but we must take care of Croatian national interests, our experiences and precisely from our position to propose and represent the position, not that Minister Lavrov, Russian Foreign Minister, sends us a little bit of the fact, sends messages that are extremely unpleasant and that should actually be forgotten as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84315	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84316	I thank Mr President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I request a ten-minute break to make it clear that we will support the President's report on the held European Council meetings. As for Mrs Selak-Raspudic's remarks on what the government and the prime minister did at the meetings of the Russian council, as well as otherwise. I believe she missed the hall. If she was going to perform like this, then she should have just crossed Mark's square and gone to the City Assembly and called the mayor of Zagreb, we can and can because these accounts, as well as the kitchen, as well as all other entrepreneurs in the City of Zagreb, call it city authority in the City of Zagreb. What the Government has done, and our fellow citizens know that what is in the government domain is controlled by the price of basic gas and electricity energy energy in the Republic of Croatia. Our fellow citizens and those entrepreneurs who are consumers will have a guaranteed price by April 1st this year. Meanwhile, the government has taken and taken action to make a certain security measure, so that our fellow citizens who are being hit by a standard due to an increase in the price of primary power plants have certain protection, so that the impact is as low as possible. This report, and otherwise from the actions of the prime minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, knows that Croatia has secured 25m euros in this period of this financial envelope and for the National Recovery and Resistance plan, so that even after this crisis we came to, thanks to the pandemic, we can get out as strong and more ready as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84317	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. We now have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one's a colleague of Troscott's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84318	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament Article 238 and the doctoring of Mrs Selak-Raspudić. Mrs Selak-Raspudic is in a good room because Mr Plenkovic, for example, did not accept three calls from the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Italy to go into joint gas negotiations, given that certain countries in the EU are calculating and that we could use this as a negotiating potential to reduce the price of gas. Mrs. Selak-Raspudić is located in a good room here in the Croatian Parliament for the reason she actually said that her own production in the Republic of Croatia is where Mr. Bačić is sitting today in the Croatian Parliament during those years. From 2015 to today, it fell from 55% to 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84319	Thank you, dear colleague Troscott. I have now carefully looked at the reasons for voicing the tensile measures in Article 238. It does not say anywhere that the MP must not question the representatives of Selak-Raspudić, which you cited as the reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I must warn you, not my colleagues Bačić. Here you are, colleague Selak-Raspudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84320	Article 238 dissuasion of the parliamentary representative. I understand why my colleague Bačić was upset and you were justifiably upset because I exposed you to the entire Croatian public, and you hoped that no one would read these Brussels reports that you did to protect Croatian citizens from the energy crisis at the moment when something else could be done. You said we're not interested in this topic at all, we're only interested in renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84321	My colleagues, Selak-Raspudic, this is a replica. You're getting a second warning. And now I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues not to go back to the same pattern of controversy, break the Rules of Procedure all together fully aware that we are doing so, so I'd like to invite everyone to give up the debate. You don't want a colleague of the Dark-Taritash? Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84322	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer to the provision of Article 238, but to the part where the subject was not discussed. So we are in the Croatian Parliament, not in the City Assembly. The topic of the city of Zagreb is the topic of discussion in the City Assembly. I don't want and I'm not a lawyer or any parliamentary party or any other party. But transferring responsibility for his dissatisfaction with the government when he transfers to the mayors of the city of Zagreb who has been there for six months is actually embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84323	Thank you very much, dear colleague Dark-Taritash. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, therefore I agree that it has strayed from the topic, but the first request for a break came from the club MOST, colleague Selak-Raspadić, and she opened the topic. A colleague named Bacic referred to her. The fact is that we went one small step away from what's a key topic and what's the point of voting, but it's just hard to figure out exactly what you can do and what you can't. Comrade Boric, are you ready to give up? Neither are you. A reminder for a colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84324	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of Article 238, colleague Selak, says something about disclosure. So if someone exposed someone in the past days it was a gentleman from Neretva in a show that revealed these Zoka's little ones in the assembly, in a way that only one sentence made it clear what the politics conducted by MOST were, and he said that the Meth Bridge is the most expensive bridge in the Republic of Croatia even more expensive than the Peljega Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84325	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you are being warned. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I am now asking you to go do as the Rules of Procedure foresees. Comrade Zurovec, please take a break. A request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84326	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Focus Club and independent representatives because primarily the Croatian Parliament, namely the ruling majority, is co-responsible for the situation in the CNB, more specifically for the choice of such governor and ultimately for the head of internal audit, who eventually used privileged information to naturally benefit from some kind of personal benefit. What am I pointing that out for? We have passed the CNB Act, and the CNB Act says exactly that the CNB should also worry about the price of regulation today. I'm sorry. I just don't insult anyone. [[President: Zurovec!/]] No problem. [[/The incursion president: No, no. But let's at least connect to this point.]] So I'm asking because Parliament as Parliament has not completed its basic task. We didn't call this governor here, and I don't intend to insult Mr. Bačić's words, but it's not the role of politics to control things, but to just get out of our citizens' pockets, to get out of our pockets. Entrepreneurs and let them on the market that normal [[President: Zurovec./]] They're working. [[President: Stanka can be sought./]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84327	Just for the point of voting, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84328	.../Intruder Zurovec: All right./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84329	you are talking about the CNB that you put this in the context of monetary policy and the EU. So
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84330	.../Intruder Zurovec: The President is also talking about the Peljesk Bridge so I don't see what that has to do with it, so here I said./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84331	./.................................................................................. He's got pebbies, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84332	.../Intruder Zurovec: Ok./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u84333	But this isn't. Okay, okay. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? Then we'll do 293.b and we'll keep working. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘The report of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2021 shall be adopted’. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 26 abstentions, 22 against the adoption of a report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2021. Final proposal of the Social Care Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 218. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments, in accordance with Article. 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Just please one second, I'd like to do this part formal and then we'll move on. I therefore propose to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 78 MPs voted, and all the MPs were in favour so that we could hold a debate on the government's amendments. Before I give the breaks, so when it comes to the amendments of the Government they will be presented first, will be explained by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, the family and social policies respected by Marija Pleikosa, after which I will open the debate. I propose a united debate on amendments, so 10 minutes on behalf of the club can only be spoken cannot be individual debates and then we will vote on these amendments afterwards. Do you want to have a discussion first or do you want to take these breaks? Let's take a break, then. First came from a colleague called Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85127	I thank the president. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the party club and the Centre and GLAS for 10 minutes for further consultations. The social care law changes the form, changes the structure of a body that should take care of the needs of the most vulnerable individuals and groups. Once again, we want to point out that the model introduced by this law is controversial. In fact, existing social care centres lose their legal independence and become part of a new body that is just being established, it is the Croatian Institute for Social Care. The Croatian Social Care Institute's decisions will be decided by the ministry, and against the ministry's decisions by another new body that is just being established, which is a committee for deciding on complaints. We believe that the formation and establishment of this new body is unconstitutional and we believe that the decisions of this committee will result in a difficult degradation of the profession because it is not prescribed for the members of the commission that they must have any conditions regarding professional training or other professional qualifications. This is as bizarre as some other institutions and other new bodies are being established by this law, including the Academy of Education in the system of social care, so we form a special educational institution that will educate employees only one specific part of the public sector. So we will further invest in educating those who work in the welfare system, but when we discuss whether they comply with the provisions of the law then we will give an unprofessional, needy commission to reconsider their decisions. There was no reason for the establishment of such an academy as a special body or for the independent formation of family centers. The minimum we asked for members of the board, directors, assistants Directors shall be officials in the sense [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The law on preventing conflicts of interest and you refused it through amendments. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85128	Thank you very much. The break is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85129	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF to pay more attention to this law. The minister says that the final proposal satisfied the associations for people with disabilities, so that they did not, and that those associations did not involve themselves at all, we would have a law that would allow people with 4th degree disability to lose their right to foreign assistance and care and personal disability at the same time. At the same time, I thank you for what this amendment is that I have submitted as well as a series of MPs adopted, but if those associations hadn't involved, it would have been even worse, not to say what kind of things are hidden in this law. Secondly, the increase in fees such as fees for people with disabilities from 1,500 to 1,750 kuna is the same as boasting with the increase in minimum wages where there is no comparison of how much wages have grown in other countries, how much these fees have grown in other countries, but only talking about the one-year increase that may exist, but compared to what we have done in the last 10 years it is absolutely insufficient. Our workers and our welfare are living in poverty and it is no accident that the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, the largest ministry, is connected because work and social work are the same. And as for how socially sensitive we are, we should say more about the state's social case, and all the measures that HDZ is taking fall into the water or demasculate themselves. When you take statistics in a picture of things and then you see that the EU's 8th worst country is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The person at risk of poverty and social exclusion is almost a third of this country. So we need to recognise this law, and we're going to see other laws, that HDZ is telling us that we don't expect anything from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85130	Thank you very much. Thank you. The apartment is approved. Let's go get 293.b. continue to work, and I will now call on the proposing representative to explain the amendments submitted. As I have announced, respectable Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa, please. So in two minutes all four amendments explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85131	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85132	No, no, no, no, this isn't on behalf of the promoter for 20 minutes, this is just an explanation of the amendment for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85133	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits the following amendments to the Final Proposal of the Social Care Act. The first amendment applies to Art. In 110, it is also noted that the right to an accommodation service is not recognised to the person who has entered into a life- or life-restraint contract except in the event of the termination of the insolvency or termination of the contract, the assistance and care provided by members of the family, which is provided by the assistance and assistance provided by the social assistance service at home, which, in the context of primary care, provides the patient with sufficient medical care, scope and intensity, or which is provided by means of different programming activities to a sufficient extent, scope and intensity. The amendment proposes to lay down more clearly obstacles to the recognition of accommodation services in line with the subsequent recommendations of the European Commission. The second amendment applies to Art. 117, St. 1 adds a new section 2 which reads, the exchange of data is used to create social policies and establish conditions for the achievement of fees and services. Previously on "St. 2"... The amendment proposes to lay down a clearer data exchange objective in line with the subsequent recommendations of the European Commission. Amendment 3, Art. The 168th words of Art. Article 193(2) shall be replaced by the words ‘Articles’. The 248th century 3. Since the substantive merger of the provisions has led to renumberation of articles, it is necessary in Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 168. to amend the invitation to the article taking into account the content of the article. 193th century 2 connected with Article 2. The 248th century 3. And Amendment 4, Art. 188th behind the word "The City of Zagreb" is "in the headquarters of a unit of regional self-government".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85136	Let's go now, so I can discuss counsel clubs for 10 minutes. The SDP Representatives' Club and Social Democrats' Club have reported for the time being. The first one is a colleague of Sabina Vosovac. State Secretary, you're welcome to go to your seat. I'm just asking you to delete the pay phone a little bit. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85137	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary of state, dear colleagues and colleagues. These proposed amendments which at the last minute 5 to 12 before voting on the law itself. 116, 168 and 188, you are trying to correct the final proposal for a package of laws related to the so-called so-called ". reforming social care, you will not do anything but you have shown and proved that this law is ready for either the 3rd reading or the withdrawal, not because we say it but that from the very beginning all those who work in the welfare system are very understanding of it, and these are social workers, associations in the welfare system, trade unions, chambers, academic community. You have raped such a law that goes into the full centralization of the system even though all European practices, recommendations and norms, and your national strategy...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85138	Comrade Voter, I beg your pardon. My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet, you've all started to walk and talk loudly and can't be done like that. I'm asking for peace so that a colleague can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85139	So this proposal for reform, so-called. reforms of the social care system are forging, over the knee breaking the centralisation of the social care system although all European recommendations, the Republic of Croatia Constitution, and the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. specifically requires decentralisation of social services. Why? Because they need to be detected within the community itself, it means respecting regional differences so that we can respond to them. You just don't want to hear it, you don't want to do it. Secondly, this law does not, unfortunately, recognise the real needs of social care users, and these are our most socially endangered citizens. 900,000 people in the Republic of Croatia live at risk of poverty, 700,000 citizens are poor. This law responds to these needs of people to come out of poverty or to prevent them from the risk of entering poverty will absolutely do nothing. We tried to fix this package of laws with amendments, I think more than 100 amendments have been passed on to this law. All, absolutely all opposition amendments are responsible only in one word, rejected without being read. I therefore use this opportunity to appeal to all MPs and MPs to reconsider their vote and to support those amendments that go in favour of the users of the welfare system, but I also appeal to everyone to support the conclusion, the proposal of the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which is the conclusion, is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the regulation on the monthly amount of compensation for the threatened buyer of energy, and to raise the amount of monthly compensation from the amount of 200 kuna to 300 kuna. Equally, what we expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 30 days extends the criteria for gaining status and to include not only electricity users in this category but also to ensure this right for gas users. And thirdly, to extend the user's palette so far, only users of guaranteed minimum fees and personal disability are entitled to electricity vouchers. We suggest that you also do so for the users of the compensation for the benefit and care of the house and for all persons who live at risk of poverty. Why? Because 15.5% of our fellow citizens cannot pay an electricity bill, because 7.5% of our citizens cannot heat their living space or their homes. If you haven't been able to offer a single measure in four months to make it easier for citizens to infiltrate their standards and their lives, here's a chance, you have concrete suggestions. In September, the European Commission made it very clear to the Member States, please make it easier for citizens, especially those who are socially vulnerable, to go through a change in tax policy and to go through energy vouchers to help households and give direct support to the companies that produce them. You didn't do it, it was Spain, Poland, Greece, Italy. In four months as people freeze in their homes, they can't pay gas bills, they can't pay electricity bills, food prices, basic foods, food flies to the sky more than 20% on an annual level, you have the nerve to say yesterday that you're thinking and that you're going to recommend the measures very quickly. When? When does winter pass? Here is an opportunity for you to make concrete proposals for these measures today. Our time to wait, it's time to act. If you are unable to come up with something, support this conclusion, you have very, very concrete measures. And one more thing, let's not forget that one of the most endangered groups today and under attack are just retired. And here we give you one proposal, and this is a proposal to seriously consider changing the model indexation of pensions because according to the last indexation that took place on 1st July, next one is implemented, 1st January, but you have time to change the model. The increase in pensions was only 2.45% in nominal amount, that's 63 kuna. For these 63 kuna pension increases, the pensioner could only buy one gas bottle with 100 kuna in the meantime, its price increased to 150 and some kuna. With this indexation and the model that we have today, we're going to find ourselves in a situation where it's actually going through this formula where the increase in gross wages and the increase in general prices are going to be calculated somewhere based on 2.4% of what we call this so-called price increases. But the real prices of basic foods that pensioners buy with moss are bread, milk, oil, sugar they didn't grow 2%, they grew 20 percent. There's also room for action, think about it, pensioners are very difficult and with this model indexation of pensions they won't be able to settle basic living costs. Time has, you have suggestions if you're not able to come up with them yourself, here's a copy of this we're not even asking for copyright, but we're doing something that will be useful for all our fellow citizens, and especially for those that this inflation will hit the most, and these are the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85140	Thank you. We've got one breach from my colleague Bacic's office, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85141	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of the Voice has been injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure of the HS demeaning us MPs, believing that a hundred times a lie will become true. My fellow Glasovac to which the citizens are in Croatia, I do not know where you live, there has been an increase in the delivery price of gas and electricity, you have made that clear there. That's not true, and I'm asking you not to present such untruths.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85142	You get a warning from your colleague Bačić, of course it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, like everyone else's. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85143	Mr. President, I've been insulted by my colleague Bacic and his foundation, and he's hurt his ankle. 238, in fact, it questioned my monitoring of the situation in Croatia, which I am required to do as a parliamentary representative. 1 April 2021 80% of Croatian households grew the price of gas, and April 1, 2022. This year's growth will rise again, so please you can challenge me...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85144	.../Invader President: Thank you very much, you get a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85145	...here's anything but the fact that I know what's going on in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85146	You get a warning from your colleagues, of course, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on now, Social Democrats' Club, a respected colleague, Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85147	Here's listening to these four amendments you've given here. I can't say they're not on the trail of better regulation of what you wanted. But there remains a big question, a big question to me too, a personal mystery as to why this law is being passed. I find it difficult to recognize not only any social interest to go with such a reform, I do not see the political interest of the ruling party to go with one bill of law that certainly will not contribute to the growth of popularity if only this ground floor, political motive, will not contribute because this reform I dare to predict on such a legal basis cannot be a successful reform. This law will show that in the next year, two, three, first of all, people who work in the profession, working in welfare institutions, in social care centres, will be heavily burdened, in fact, by one completely irrational organisation of their activities, and I would say, in the context of what follows these laws, these are laws on the professional activity of individual chambers. I have to say that I find it a little frightening to impose political volunteerism and putting ahead of expertise, the knowledge of people who have been educated in certain areas, who are certified by their diplomas to do business in a professional and professional way, all of this raises a question. The consequences will be based on my deep conviction very, very negative for what should actually be our primary goal. What exactly is this about? After 30 years of having an independent state, after completely faded the memory of a system as it was called, we say a more Croatian system in which people were largely protected in one particular way. There was no reason for the level of social security to be reduced and social protection to be reduced in conditions when we got our own state and when we implemented what is called a free democratic political order. We have been tragically lagging behind for 30 years, I would say both as a state and as a society in defining our key objectives. We have not been able to define that the well-being of people, individuals, citizens of this country is the greatest possible value. The fascination with the state that we had 30 years to create the state, to free it, to integrate it, etc. is a question that brings us to what is with society, what is with this building society, investing in society. We've got land, we've got a society where there's an incredible level of mistrust or what's called social capital. We're at the bottom of Europe. We can hardly function as a country in which no one is trusted, in which institutions have lost any credibility and with the stuttering of the salami spoken of these days by the prime minister is the sniveling actually happening within institutions that have defeated themselves. Have any of us or any of you dear colleagues ever been to the Social Care Center? I'm excluding us who did professional work or had some work to do? The first ticket, the first yard, the first door of the state comes to the welfare centers, the poorest, the most unloved, the most abandoned, the poorest people. It is the first place in which people with their personal traumas, facing their own indifference, health, social, some other handicaps address their country. By centralising a system in which and in which it is going so fiercely, there is no European practice anywhere. Believe me, there is no principle of subsidiarity as important as social policy. Social protection rests on subsidiarity, the availability of social services to those who need it most and those who know what that need is. I don't see any reason to go into this kind of centralization of something that I say is opposite of both expertise and knowledge. Already, colleagues have talked about our most clever or professional people working on social protection jobs in Croatia being ultimately negatively determined against this vastly incredible centralization. All the chambers, all the associations. Here we have organized a debate just us at the Social Democrats Club on the subject of amending these laws. We wanted to make a preliminary statement without making political points to support this broad debate, which is as much as 2400 indications that citizens have made during public debates say how important this topic is to people. There was no reason to impose solutions that are not in favour of citizens. I'm interested and I'd like to ask him how he thinks he's doing the reform without people who have to implement that reform on his own side. The principle of system organisation cannot be a principle, as is true, in pension insurance. Well, you can't centralize it here, you're giving it, you're coming to the counter, you're talking to the clerk, the clerk interprets you and explains what right you have. This is about a completely different type of service that the state delivers to its citizens through a social care centre. I was at the welfare center working under impossible conditions. Although, 20 years ago, I'm not sure the situation is much better now. Where strakers run, where 3 social workers sit, and people shake out their insides, fate and their discomfort in someone's presence. 20 years ago, we founded the Association of Social Workers. I personally asked to help establish a doctoral study, to get a profession, not to be, with what is now proposed, we get semi-professionals, people who have no right to expertise, to professional and scientific expertise, within their area are no longer professionals. This can have far-reaching consequences, not only on this social security system, but on everything else. Political volunteering, putting some different criteria above and ahead of professional criteria can be devastating for a society that needs to rest on knowledge, on profession and on expertise. Everything else is politics that goes to the harm of our citizens, and not in their favor. I'm very disappointed, I expected a reform that is absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary, to move towards greater decentralisation, greater deinstitutionalisation, and, if you will, deetatisation. The state has failed to find partners in neither local self-government nor civil society organisations that can make an immeasurable, huge contribution and therefore with great regret, we will not be able to give much regret, despite your 4 amendments, to support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85148	Thank you. We are now going to the 3rd debate, Green-left bloc advocates' club, two MPs will speak, first of all Raukar Gamulin's respected colleague, and after her colleague Bencic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85149	Thank you, Mr. President, here's what we got to discuss. 4 more amendments [[Intruder: You can take off the mask.]] I'm on. ... [[/Intruder: Mask, mask, yes?]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. So, four more amendments to this set of laws, I'm going to repeat by not knowing which time everyone's on. So, the uniform profession rose, the unisoned academic community rose, and the universal users rose. You didn't get users on Mark's square because you increased your personal, disability base, and, I'm sorry, I think you planned it before the law came into the first reading. Good political move, of course. But, as wise as he is, and as much as he will actually bring something good, that you will now insist on voting on this set, I'm not sure. Yes, of course. I'm absolutely sure this reform can't work. Why? When it entered Europe and the EU, it was the famous 3D. Decentralization, deinstitutionalization, deetatisation. ... Stop my time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85150	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down, this doesn't make any sense, time stop anyway. My colleagues and colleagues, who won't listen, we have four more clubs, that's about another 30 minutes, so I'm asking you to let those who speak, talk. A fellow Radin Comrade Radin, please. [[/Intruder: And this one of yours.]] Take your seats, whoever won't listen, let them leave the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85151	So 3D. All those 3Ds have now turned into 1D, and that's a demonstration of the social care system. So we do, i.e. The government and its ruling swears to Europe, swearing to European values, followed by the EU directives, regulations, in principle, and when it comes to realisation, everything is done the opposite. I don't have any need to deal politically with you. Why am I saying all this? Because it's about the interest of our citizens. It's really about the interest of the most vulnerable groups. It's about the interest, as a person with disabilities, is about the interest of children with developmental difficulties, it's about the interest of the homeless, it's about the interest of the poor, it's about the interest of those on the very side of this society. On the other hand, it is also all social care workers. It's about people who, in fact, have these sets of laws that you've abolished chambers, you've abolished their ability to work, and you haven't given them decent, civilized working conditions so far. He was already talking about how and under what conditions social workers work. What kind of conditions do they have? Who's actually taking care of them? Why didn't you want to listen to them? Why didn't you want to hear them? I was just commenting yesterday. The secretary of state. Hers, keeping her on the defense of the amendment, she didn't listen for one second to the explanation, and that's where I realized why it came about because unfortunately this ministry had no hearing, neither for the profession, nor for the users did it really open one debate, she wouldn't hear it, she didn't want to hear anyone, and that's why we have such a law. To think about the welfare system in such a centralised way and you know your colleagues that it's completely wrong. The social care system must be established in the community, in a local community where all the problems of the local community can best and only be identified because they are not the same in Slavonia as they are. The same in Dubrovnik or in Konavla, not the same, some yes, but most do not. It is the local community that has a developed network of civil society and can still develop it, which is one of the crucial participants in the whole social care system. And that's why I invite you respected colleagues and colleagues with really good faith with the interest of our citizens and professions in the first place withdraw these laws from the procedure, enable a new debate, allow this reform to really succeed in a way that everyone supports and accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85152	She's going to continue her colleague, Bencic. Please just overwrite the pay phone. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85153	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I have already stated, and I will now underline the absurdity of this reform, and this time this government has taken into account the history, the 20-year history of financing social care reform. So the idea of transforming actually the social care system was, was that social care centres were developing with partners in the local community of a social services network based precisely on the needs of the specific community. So the idea was to go... that, therefore, from below, we create and create services at the level of the local community. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, it was unusually important that social care centres are precisely legal persons and that they have legal personality because they were able to participate as equal partners in joint projects, for example with civil society associations and develop innovative social services, pilot and innovation, and in the end, effectively menstrumise and provide them to all. I have asked here a question from the minister how local care centres will now report to joint projects with associations from their community, for example, those projects that are centralized, Brussels projects, I have not received an answer. They have no legal personality, all will be reported by one single institution, all the projects we have from the ISF. And not only that, how will they, how will they define those needs and those activities they need in their community? I will remind you, that it would come to that point that social care centres co-ordinators, coordinators and social service spreaders in the community along with other partners and stakeholders at that place took 20 years, it took the first 40 million dollars your government then, the HDZ, took from the World Bank as a loan and invested exactly that. After that, the second SDP government took a new 70m-euro loan also from the World Bank to complete the transformation process. After that, we received effective human potentials in the 2007-2013 perspective in the IPA programme, so more than 100m euros were programmed in the pre-accession programme, from which 47m euros were programmed in order to strengthen social inclusion and integration of people in an unfavourable position, so precisely for these purposes. We also programmed 1.4 billion euros in the perspective of 2014, i.e. 1.6 for the European Social Fund, where we received half a billion euros or nearly 4 billion kuna for technical assistance to continue to transform the social system towards its decentralisation, deinstitutionalisation and development of social services right at the local site. And after all that and the 36 million more that you paid the World Bank to make analytical bases for you, for Croatia's '20-30 strategy, one of these bases is precisely a question of the development of social services and social care, where recommendations are made diametrically contrary to where this reform is going. So after all these literally I'm going to say billions invested in the transformation of the system and its decentralisation and approach to the user you're literally turning 180 and going in a completely different direction. And I said that my biggest problem and our club's problem is how you justify that all the investments we've had right now are being thrown and flushed, and we're going 180 in the other direction. How do you justify pushing for a reform that no professional organization has supported? How will you spend it when the key people you need to spend don't support it? How do you explain that after 20 years? We didn't introduce an inclusive supplement for people with disabilities, how do you explain that? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85154	Thank you very much. We are going to the fourth debate of the Croatian Representatives' Club of HSS and RF respected counterpart Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85155	Thank you. I would look back a little on the situation where we are now in the midst of four amendments in the middle of the voting procedure that I, as a first-term representative, have never witnessed at all, in order to download on my mobile phone those four amendments and try to read what this is really about and nothing spectacular as it is already said, but let us not reduce the importance of these amendments by colleagues and colleagues. So here one, the first amendment says that there are clearer obstacles to the recognition of the accommodation service of people with disabilities. So if a person has concluded a life-long or life-restraint contract, it is not recognised as a accommodation service, etc., then it is rather important things for people with disabilities and a completely inappropriate procedure in which we get it here. But it's not just those four amendments, the whole law is made completely smutty and totally amateural, so we could get the law, says the minister I've listened to everything the associations have said and I've accepted it. So if the associations hadn't joined in writing this law, we colleagues and colleagues would have been given a law which, among other things, would have made it impossible for persons with disabilities to have at the same time the right to help and care and to have a personal disability, which means that the amendment that I gave to a couple of MPs and MPs on the basis of the citizens' initiative "We Help Children With Disabilities", otherwise if we hadn't submitted that amendment would have been so voted. How many things that have not been accepted among our amendments are, for example, the reaction of the Union of Psychotherapeutic Associations that participated in the process of making the law in the first reading so that in the second reading simply the minister would decide that it looks something different and that fewer people actually have the right to do that psychotherapy activity. Well, I guess the association knows, I guess the profession knows who can, and who can't be a psychotherapist. What we see here, I will warn you, is the way Minister Aladrovic works, who rarely comes here, who sends his state secretaries, but we haven't seen him very often, who will pass other laws like this, and he is the minister of the largest ministry in the government means work and social care of the largest ministry. This way it works here is totally unacceptable. But I'm going to tell you it's not only a matter of incompetence, unfortunately, but also what was done here and agreed, or what the rulings agreed on, it's disastrous, so I'm going to warn you about an article. 34th with this single law which is the beneficiary of the right to guaranteed minimum fee from now on have a working obligation. I have to admit that I was shocked to hear that the mayor of Bjelovar Hrebac prescribes a working obligation for his social care users and that one who does not want to work on public works does not have the right to receive social assistance in Bjelovar because I believe that people who receive social benefits very often receive this social compensation for a variety of reasons. But who are we to judge them whether they have the right to that social compensation or not, none of the social benefits live well, here's what you have in law. It entered the law that there is a working obligation for a single person who is a beneficiary of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, he is forced and obliged to accept any employment given to him, and we know that the ministry is reducing the number of unemployed persons. If they haven't moved out, they'll be forced to do what they say they should do. So this is where we get all the sociopathic suggestions that tell us that this country is not going to care for its disabled persons, for its poor, for its workers because let's take into account that the next law that will come here will be a great law on work that and there the minister obviously learned a lesson as opposed to where the amendments have arrived five to twelve years in the assembly in secret, it doesn't mean it's going to be perfect, it probably doesn't work as well as it doesn't work here, but he's learned a lesson and he's been doing it for two years in secret. But in any case, we here have to face the fact that this is the first thing about complete incompetence, and the second thing about the project is that all the people who need it tell them that this country isn't going to help them too much, and that they actually have to ask themselves what they can do for the state, and not what the state can do for them because, as many people have said, I'm not going to go into all those structural problems that we've all talked about how many times. I said Churchill said if you didn't want to solve the problem of the draft commission, so here's the commission, the academy, the institute all to give an illusion that something was changing, and that nothing would actually change or just change worse. I'm not gonna say it again. We all know what this is about. But apart from the structure itself, except for the complete incompetence let's be honest and conclude all of this with a final assessment, which is that everything they've done here and which is being praised in public with some kind of increase in the personal disability is very late and that these fees that they are now advertised are the very big same thing as with a minimum salary for 10 years have stalled and then when you have the fall of these strict rules of the European semester when countries can be more in debt, when you can increase public debt then now the state has little to eat and your own rules. The next year, when things return to normal, then the European Bank and other institutions will ask us to tighten the belt and we know how it will end. And who will bear the burden of this crisis that is yet to come is not those who are dear to HDZ, but just these people with whom the HDZ ball is being used here and says we have increased the compensation for people with disabilities from 1500 to 1750 kuna. What are we talking about here? We are the country's social case, the eighth worst country in the EU according to the number of people and the risk of poverty. You should give those people the wages you pay yourself so they can live fairly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85156	Thank you very much. I ask that we just stay away from the words that are too difficult to say that something is sociopathic, etc. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa, a respected representative of Mrak-Taritaš, Oreshkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85157	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. We can thank the ministry or the secretary of state that we have the opportunity to speak again on behalf of the clubs about these laws because if they had done a job so that they wouldn't have to give the last moment amendments and we wouldn't have the opportunity to point out once again that these are not reforms, it's not a reform package. So don't call a reform package some petty cosmetic changes and some kind of situation where you're gonna do something to yourself. A reform package would mean a serious turn you haven't made and that you can't make. I've been taught that when you get into some serious business, then you always have to have such an equal number of a little dissatisfied. But you've gone too far! You know equal numbers a little unsatisfactory. But you're unhappy with everyone in very large, huge quantities. Who did you work for these laws for? For who? So these laws let's see what the point is, the point is the relationship of those who work and deal with social care and those who are users of social care. Is the purpose of this law that instead of one institution you have 4 new ones, so we're going to print new papers, new forms and all or it would be to bring people closer to them to simplify that they really have a chance to use their rights not because I don't use some hard words, one hard word came to mind, but I'm not going to say it, but because they have to, but because they don't have a choice. I always stress that my sister is a social worker and I have been living with this problem since the age of her studies very actively and live all the time. We all live and know what we're talking about. And I know what I'm talking about and I know about families they don't have, they don't have a choice. They have to answer there. It's their only hope. They don't care what it's called, it's just important to them that it's close, that they don't have to go, I don't know 6 buses that aren't there today, and that there's someone out there who's gonna listen to them, who's gonna help them, who's gonna tell them to start a warm word, and then everything else they need. As long as we in Croatia, while a social worker has 200 cases of what reform are we talking about? What step are we talking about? What are you gonna do about it? It's a serious job, but serious business needs to be taken seriously. It's not a serious thing for you to take a set of laws and then say, importantly, go to first reading, so you say the important thing is you go to the second question. As only the ministry applies to these laws, these amendments show. So, these amendments that the law was in emergency procedure first and second reading I'd say ok. You released some material, so someone didn't see it, he forgot a little bit. I always have a really big understanding of people who do work in the administration. I did it and I know what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about some imaginary job, I'm not talking about how the appendix is operated because I don't know and I'm not going to do it and I'm not being educated for it. But there are some things I know and I'm talking about. But imagine when the ministry makes an amendment and then says in its explanation that the amendment makes it more clear that obstacles to the recognition of accommodation services are being prescribed. This is the first amendment in line with the subsequent recommendations of the European Commission. I'm very interested, I'm really interested in what these are the European Commission's recommendations that came between the first and second readings. So don't make a fool of us. I use such a gentle word so that the Vice President of the Parliament doesn't have to refer. So we read what you deliver to us, and we understand what it is. But what we understand and what is clear is that there is no reform here and there is no us in this sensitive domain forward while you are dealing with the form of what it will be called, so let's still make it a pyramid, so in that pyramid that no one can manage and until then the number of users grows from day to day. And you know what stagnates? The number of people who do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85158	The next club of MPs will be that Most. And I'm sorry, Mr. Oreshkovic will still be respected on behalf of the Centre and GLASS. Representative, I'm sorry. [[Upadica Oreshković: Advocacy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85159	Thank you to the president, colleagues and colleagues. Most of the complaints on this law were related to the centralisation of the system and that the specific assistance required by the users was not taken into account, and the majority of amendments were submitted to the administration with a view to replacing that deficit. I really support all amendments that give greater support to users of the social care system, but I would like to draw attention to 25 amendments submitted by the CENTAR Party and the GLAS Party, which wanted to fix this new design, a new and poorly designed welfare system. All these amendments in the order of ruling have been refused In this regard, we have not even disputed this centralization. We have disputed a poor and ultimately constitutionally unacceptable model of control of the very way the system works. This Law establishes a new megatillo, the famous Croatian Institute of Social Care under which all existing independent centres for social care will now fall. Their work will be carried out by the ministry in the first degree, and then, another new body, the famous Board of Decisions on Appeals I dare call a concoctional invention. So, first of all, it is not known on what basis such a single body, consisting of 5 citizens, of 5 citizens without any required qualifications, will control the profession. Not just social workers, but experts. So you don't know that. What is known is that the Committee will bring only five citizens, the Rules of Procedure of its work. In that Rules of Procedure, they will settle their own questions in their own part, so what will they decide and how? And then we thought about it, or by ruling, they thought that one such senseless body would once a year submit a report to HS without knowing anything about such a report. Whether it is for the control of the welfare system or for the control of the work of the members of the Committee themselves. We don't know anything about that. The only thing we know is that this commission will be paid by effect, in a way that every member of the Commission will get 1% of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year for each completed item, and thus they are unprofessional people who have absolutely no competence because it is neither requested nor foreseen by law, to control all those employees of the system for which we are now, this new law re-imagining something new, some new hot water, and we are forming another new body, the Agency, no, pardon, the Academy of Social Care, which will deal with special education and education of that part of the sector, so we will seek out the most difficult jobs, while all of them are underpaid, that they are further educated, and then we will do something in this profession, knowledge and work, so that I am not going to do this talk, that I would say, and I would like to make sure that there is one thing that we do not know that we know that we know that we know that we know that we know that we know that we know that we know how to be able to do it, and how to be able to be able to do it, and how to do it, and how to do it, and how to do it, and how to make it to do it, and how to be able to be able to be able to get to do it to do it to do something, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get to do, to do, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do, to do something, to do something, to do something, to do, to do, to do something, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to get, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get, to do, to do, to get, to do, to do, to do, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to do, to get, to do, to do, to do, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get So what are we doing? So it's a political state in which this commission will be used to give someone some compensation beyond the rules, beyond knowledge, while taking away their constitutional right to a legal remedy as provided for by Article. 18 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about this structure, we have pointed out that perhaps this centralization can achieve some positive effects. I'd give it a chance to see if that's the case, but it's unacceptable that when we've already gone for something to be united somewhere, at the same time we form a special system of family centers and say a special Academy. And the minimum we sought through these amendments was that then it was defined that all the administrative councils of these new bodies, so the administrative board of the Croatian Centre for Social Care, the administrative council of the Academy and the administrative board of family centres were officials. So are the directors, assistants and deputies of these bodies. All these reigning refused, and most generously of all, which these members of the Committee that are now going to be Megacontrollers, they're not officials either. [[Thank you very much.]] The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. [[Thank you very much. Next club reps... /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85160	... will be that Mosta, and will speak the esteemed representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85161	Thank you, Chairman. There's one thing about this bill that's good. But there remains much more of what is not good and in the opinion of the profession, and I will read to you all that they have sent. There is a legitimate fear that the state of such a law will be either the same or worse. I have no problem with you not accepting any of our suggestions. I have no problem either with the fact that you may think you are smarter than all those people who have submitted a certain amendment and I believe and I wish for happiness that this law, quite frankly, as a man gets results and does that group that should measure our Croatia, more precisely, its strength, that they are the weakest, much less weak because that is when Croatia should be stronger. And I believe that with equal fire, you will accept any responsibility in the event that this law does not break the set goals. What the profession as such resented, therefore, is primarily inaccessible as a result of the definition and census of social services in the Law itself. Therefore, in this proposal, the Proposer also tends to list social services. Thus, with previous 10 services, the social service list has grown to 15 services, Art. 71 of the Law's proposal, but this did not make a qualitatively significant change because the approach applied in the draft law not only does it not give a stopper to the development of social services but prevents the development of services that are not included. There is also a problem in case we get to know some new social needs and choose to offer a new social service because we believe that those as such should not be defined in this law. What we are proposing is that the basic act defines clusters of services according to purpose, so accommodation services outside of its own home, community support services for inclusion in education, employment and the very life of the community and services for psychosocial empowerment of users, with the emphasis of therefore the assistance itself to function in everyday life and help in the home of users. Following one fear highlighted by all those working in the system is the administrative inaccessibility of social services. The proposed Social Care Act sees the tendency of legislation to increase the administrative activities of professional workers in order to grant or recognise the user the right to social service, of course Articles 75 to 80. That's how it was before. In the 75th sentence, the user has now grown to 6 articles and 24 items by prescribing a whole series of actions that have been carried out since the moment the user shows his need until the moment of realisation of social services itself. The emphasis on administrative procedures represents a particular form of risk of asphyxiation of professional work and a reduction of the availability of social services for end-users themselves if our end-users are those who aim at this law. Access to social services in the draft law is standardised by analogy with access to social benefits. However, these two procedures do not need to be identified because social services are namely right, but the state did not offer mechanisms to ensure that users actually receive the necessary service in any part of the Republic of Croatia in the same way. Secondly, social services involve volunteering and establishing trust between users and a professional worker, for which administrative procedures in this case do not exactly benefit. Furthermore, users are expected to participate in the payment of social services, making their recognition more controversial. Social services will also be provided outside the public network of service providers, e.g. projectally, which will lead to a part of the citizens of such a service, such services getting something called past the process of recognising the right itself in the pension system, in the social care system. And then we come up with a kind of risk of unfair treatment for the users themselves. The following problem they have warned about is the financial inaccessibility of social services and in this bill as well as in the current law, there are rather clear provisions on the participation of users in the payment of services with the exception of users guaranteed minimum fees by the recipients. 120. Since the property censorship of this issue is not legally defined, it will be more detailed in the sublaw of this provision potentially create legal uncertainty and threaten the financial inaccessibility of social services. It would therefore be useful to provide in advance for the level of participation of citizens in the very payment of social services at this property price, because it should actually be based at least on the risk line of poverty, and we know that the limit of 2,900 kuna per household member is prescribed, and it would be optimal to base the average wage, given that the figures of the user groups that need social services are at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion. The institutional inaccessibility of social services is well known that the proposal for a new Social Care Act introduces a new level of centralisation of the social care system by setting up so-called The National Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the National Family Centre, as well as the introduction of current centres for social care and family centres into a new vertical structure with a loss of legal personality. This approach is in no way in the spirit of the very development of social services that should be locally established, accessible users and specific to local needs and characteristics of the area from which the user comes. The development of social services would eventually favour a decentralised system and a decentralised asset more than what this law offers. The draft bill shows that the control role of the welfare system will be widespread through a network of regional services, offices and outposts, which will, in turn, create a particular form of problem. I could keep reading everything people wrote, and there's a lot of it. Again, I will wish those who made this law live better. Will it be so personal, I'm afraid. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85162	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85163	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will first of all say a few words about the government's proposed amendments. It is certainly good that it is more clearly arranged for both the treatment and the rights related to the accommodation service because it has led to this, which has led to the fact that we have had a really hyperproduction of a number of accommodation requirements in different social institutions, especially in homes for older and powerless, which are decentralised, i.e. the founder of a unit of local and regional self-government. In fact, there has been a duplication of different services, even those services paid by the same ministry, or we like to say from the state. So it was not rare to say that the help service in the house was also used by a person who was placed in a home or possibly medical care without saying that the status of the carer we extended to family members should certainly be excluded. What I also welcome, which is the exchange of data from different services and rights and benefits that our citizens receive from different levels and different basics. It is known that local self-government units have different social programmes and are directed to our citizens, and that they also benefit from the Social Care Act from a national level of some compensation. And the NPOO provides for the creation of such a platform, I think it's good because of the levelling of criteria, or because of the fairer distribution of funds intended for our citizens. Of course, I will take the opportunity to say something about this reform that it is all from the law that leads towards reforming the social system, we have all spoken, and we are now arguing that this reform is good and necessary, and therefore I cannot understand at all the messages from this payphone in which there is so much criticism of the law that still gives a lot of benefits to our citizens and in order to encourage the reform not to be implemented, and I think that as responsible advocates, we cannot and should not order it from this speaker. Each law has its own impact analysis so that it can be corrected. Of course, it's directed towards poverty reduction, and I'm not going to let anyone tell me that we're boasting that these are enormous benefits. No, but they've been increased. This government has increased some fees in its mandates and twice, some are not from before, so it was a stronger and better base and these percentages would have had a better effect. What's important is to point out, I'm going to emphasize it, and I don't want it to go under the radar in any way, which is that, according to people with disabilities, one significant democratic step has been made, and that's the abolition of the censorship. You know very well how much this meant to them on the one hand, on the other hand, I think you should also appreciate the financial impact. There are also users of disabled persons who are retired, and they are also users of vouchers so that there is when cumulatively sum up individual rights and compensations will be a significant financial effect of assistance according to all these categories. What is very surprising to me is that the introduction and establishment of the academy, social workers and professional workers have constantly advocated that they need permanent education, we all advocate lifelong learning and of course that these educations should be targeted, designed and meaningful and I think that social care did not have it alone and it is certainly to be welcomed. As far as the Board of Appeals is concerned, I have to be honest with you, this is my personal matter, and I've had a little bit of that questionnaire myself. However, if the commission, I see that MPs say those things they don't write anywhere, the commission will be appointed by the HS board and I think we will also have insight into the members of that committee. However, I would ask the question, was it okay that the professional work of decisions concerning very sensitive issues affecting children's rights, in the rights of parenting, so the rights of family legal protection, anonymously some statements commented on the media by also completely unprofessional, but some associations and activists, questioned in a very ugly way the work of professional workers where the haika had been carried out to this extent that it was questionable not only their expertise, work and knowledge but also questioned their safety. We're familiar with frequent attacks on social workers, not to mention our social workers were suffering at work. Well then there was no question whether these were enough professional people, no, they had the right to comment on the professional work of social workers. There's a big cry, and there's a strong system here that's centralized. There is nowhere in this law that there is no further deinstitutionalisation, that there is no decentralisation in terms of social work in the local community, even though it is encouraging the development and establishment of a service centre in the community and this is also foreseen in the NPOO, but what should be guaranteed by the state for all our citizens who have the need to receive compensations from the rights regulated in social law in all cities, in all areas whether it was developed Zagreb or undeveloped Zagora. So these are the rights guaranteed by the state and each user has the right to do so, and that is where professional social work is applied, which no social worker can take away because of any organisation of the new. Legal affairs are centralized, accounting for certain jobs, applications and public procurement, but even more time will be released for their professional work. What's hard to hear here is that the MP says we're not working in the interest of citizens. I don't know how we don't take care of citizens' interests, and they give themselves the right opposition advocates to represent the interest of citizens. These rights, these fees that are extended, new rights introduced, increased fees I don't know who they're for if they're not for the citizens. It's very ominous to hear him say that that's the only reason we didn't get people on Mark's square because we've increased the fees. I don't know who that makes sense to, but it does confirm that the law is still aimed at those on which it should be, and these are citizens who depend on the care of the state on any basis or under any law. And about the vouchers that they exist and now, it's been introduced long ago, they're now extended to other energy suppliers. But I would also point out that they are already being used by users of guaranteed minimum fees, users of persons with disabilities. So, personal people with disabilities and of course it's something that exists in this law, and all these measures that the government will bring to the protection of citizens because of this new situation must have come well. And what needs to be said is that it's already been employed in 9 months by 200 professionals. This law provides for 326 new employees and this ratio of how many users per social worker vary. Not every user of ours is in equal need, does not often come and his needs for social worker services are difficult, continuous. So when we discuss this, we take care of it. We work with people, each user has his own story, and that's certainly not worth the math one and one is two. This law is good and should certainly try to bring it into practice and make this reform work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85164	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, so we're going to vote on the government's amendments. I am voting on the first amendment of the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 77 MPs and MPs voted, and they were all in favour. Amendment number one becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're going to vote on the second amendment to the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The vote was 77. Seventy-six again, one was against it. So this amendment also becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the 3rd amendment of the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 76 voted and all were in favour, so this amendment also becomes an integral part of the final draft law. And the fourth amendment to the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Seventy-six votes again. Seventy-six for it. And this amendment becomes an integral part of the final bill. We will now vote on the amendments we discussed earlier in the session. The amendments were submitted by representative Dario Zurovec, representative Katarina Peović, representative Marija Selak-Raspoudić, Representatives' Club of Croatian Sovereigns, IDS Representatives' Club, Renata Sablar-Dračevac, MP Ljubica Lukačić, Green-left bloc representative club, Silvano Hrelja representative, Centre and Glass Club and SDP MPs' Club. The review of the amendment has been sent to you. We will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We have a total of 102 amendments. Some have been accepted. So now we have dozens of minutes of voting on amendments. She is the first representative of Marija Selak-Raspudic. The government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number two and number three are identical content, and four pardons. Two, three and four are identical content, the government doesn't accept them. We're voting on all three at once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment number five of MPs, Selak-Raspudic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments six and seven are identical to the SDP's Club of Representatives and Sablar-Dračevac's representative, the government does not accept them. We only vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment No. 8, the SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 9 and 10 are identical content, SDP and representative Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept them, we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 11th amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 11th Amendment of MP Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 13th and 14th. Amendments of identical, identical content, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Representative Sablar Dračevac, we vote only once. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 15th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 15, again, the SDP advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? What? Excuse me, number 16. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 17, amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 18 and 19, Club of Representatives of the SDP, representative Sablar Dračevac, are identical content, the government does not accept them, we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 20th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They haven't received or received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 21. MPs Ljubica Lukačić accepted, becoming an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 22, the Green-left bloc advocates' club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 23, MP Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 24 and 25 are identical content, Club of Representatives of the SDP, representative Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept them, we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 26th and 27th amendments are identical content, the Green-left bloc's club and MP Dario Zurovec, the government does not accept them, we vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. 28th Amendment to the IDS Representatives Club, the Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 29th Amendment to the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 30th and 31st Amendments of the SDP's Club of Representatives and Representatives Sablar Dračevac are identical content, the government does not accept them, we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get enough votes. The 30th Amendment, about the apology, the 32nd Amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Maria Selak Rasudic, 33rd Amendment, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 34, 35 and 36 of MP Ljubica Lukačić, Selak Rasdić and MP Zurovec were accepted in the form proposed by MP Ljubica Lukačić and these amendments, respectively, become an integral part of the final draft law. The 37th amendment of MP Katarina Peovic has been withdrawn. 38. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 39th Amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of MP Zurovec has been withdrawn. 41. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Lukačić's 42nd amendment was accepted, becoming an integral part of the final draft law. 43rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 44 and 45. Green-left bloc representatives' club and MP Selak Rasdic have been withdrawn. Amendment 46 to MP Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 47th and 48th. The SDP and MPs club Sablar Dračevac are identical, the government does not accept them, we only vote on one. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. 49th Amendment Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 50th Amendment of MP Lukacic has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the final draft law. The 51st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club has been withdrawn. Amendments 52 and 53 are identical content, the government does not accept them and we will vote on them only once, they are the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists and Representative Sablar Dračevac. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 54th and 55th amendments of the SDP and representative Sablar Dračevac Club are identical content, the government does not accept them just once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. 56th and 57th Amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives and MP Sablar Dračevac, identical content, the government does not accept them just once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 58. Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 59th and 60th. The SDP representative club and representative Sablar Dračevac are identical, the government does not accept, we only vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 61st amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 62. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 63rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 64. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 65th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 66th Amendment of Representative Sablar Dračevac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 67 SDP representatives' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we have a whole set of amendments to the Center and Voice Representatives Club, do you perhaps agree that we suddenly vote on them all or go one by one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85165	One at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85166	Okay. The 68th Amendment of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 69. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 70th Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 71st Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 72nd Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 73rd, the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 74th, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 75th Amendment, the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 76, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 77th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 78th Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 79, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 80th Amendment, once again by the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 81st Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, do you agree that we are voting unitedly on one of your amendments? ... Who's in? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 82. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 83rd Amendment of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 84. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 85th, the same club of MPs, who's in favour, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 86th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 87. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 88th Amendment, once again, the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Back in '89, the same club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 90th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 91st Amendment of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 92. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 93rd Amendment is not accepted by the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 94, again the same club the government is not accepting. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 95th, the same club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 96, The 97th and 98th are identical content, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Croatian sovereigns and representative Sablar-Dračevac, the government does not accept them. We only starve once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendments No. The 99th, 100th and 101st legislators of Silvan Hrelje were accepted and became an integral part of the final bill. And the 102nd amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić is also accepted and becomes an integral part of the final bill. So we've come to an end with the amendments, so I'm now voting on the final proposal of the Social Welfare Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 1 abstention and 39 against and thus passed the Social Care Act. The SDP representative club proposed the following conclusion, firstly: It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act amending the Regulation, the Regulation on the monthly amount of compensation for the threatened buyer of energy products, the way in which the costs of the energy products of the beneficiaries of compensation and the handling of the competent centres for social care (NN No. 140/15) in such a way that the compensation for the threatened buyer is determined at a maximum of 300 kuna per month and that the same is done in the adoption of the new regulation referred to in Article 1(1). 43th century 5, and in accordance with Article 5. 327 ct. 1. The law. Second: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Law, the law of the Republic of Croatia shall be laid down. 43. St. 1. Laws which: ultimately and clearly define energy poverty, extend the criteria for obtaining the status of a threatened buyer by introducing that right both for gas and for thermal energy, to beneficiaries of the right to compensation for the threatened energy purchaser with users guaranteed minimum fees and users of the disabled person, to include users of the aid and care allowance, and to all persons who live at a particular risk of energy poverty. I am voting on the proposed conclusion that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The conclusion didn't get the number of votes needed, 36 was for, 76 was against. We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 219, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc's representatives, Domagoj Hajduković and Furio Radin, the SDP advocates' club, the Social Democrats' club. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and we will vote on those amendments that the applicant does not accept. Stanku's looking for a colleague, Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85652	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. On behalf of the Department of State Movements, I ask for a pause to point out once again the fact that we as the Home Movement Club and also our colleagues and colleagues from the opposition demanded even during the first and during the second readings, which is the fact that in one day in a united debate we discussed all seven laws, i.e. the amendment of the laws of the so-called so-called. Social package. As President of the Parliament and your co-chairing colleagues, you have offered an option to extend the time of individual exposure in front of clubs for 20 minutes, but we still want to highlight the fact that these are laws, I will repeat them once more, about fostering, psychotherapy, education-rehabilitation activities, psychological activities, social work activities and socio-pedagogical activities, and that it certainly was not enough for 20 minutes per club, and we want to repeat once again the fact that these laws took a lot, we can say a lot, but also with much more concern and love to discuss because behind all these thousands of printed pages, tens of hours of parliamentary debates stand alive. Not only lives, living children stand, living women, living men with serious health problems, of course, and existential problems. We just wanted to point out that, we're going to vote now in public on our conscience, on all these points, but that's what we wanted to warn you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85653	All right, the break is approved, but we'll proceed in accordance with the article. 293b away. So now we're going to go to the amendments and vote on those that the government doesn't accept. We go in order, 1st, 2nd and 3rd amendments, the Social Democrats' Club, Green-Left bloc and MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Furi Radin, these 3 amendments are identical content, the government does not accept them, and we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85654	No, it's not, Mr. President. I ask you to order the professional services to write down who voted for this amendment because I think it happened that the Vice President of Parliament did not vote for his amendment, I want it recorded for history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u85655	Well, you have a right to ask, they'll check the departments, and they'll check who voted. Please, secretary of the session, the Bucharest, to ensure that. Okay. Let's move on. 4. ... Please, colleagues and colleagues. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. Calm down. What's the matter? Calm down. 4th is SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 5th Amendment Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th amendment and last, the Green-left bloc's Green-Left Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 111 MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 35 were against, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act was adopted. The SDP representative club proposed the following conclusion "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to propose to the HS, within 30 days, amendments and additions to the Household Act in accordance with the decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In the 11-144/2019 and 2 January 2020 of 29 January 2020, in a way that ensures equal participation in all aspects of social life, including access to the public role of fostering, formal and informal life partners." I am voting on the proposed conclusion that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposed conclusion did not get the required number of votes 33 for, 76 was against and 1 was abstentioned. Final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 220. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Katarina Peović, representative Andreja Maric, SDP representative club and representative Ivan Celic. The review you received by electronic means. We will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. Let's take it in a row. The 1st and 2nd amendments are identical content of SDP's representative club and representative Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept them, so we only vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3 Representatives Andreja Maric, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 4. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 5th Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Something stuck? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Excuse me. 107 reported, 32 for, 75 against, therefore, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 6th Amendment of Representative Ivan Celic has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law., the 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And nine. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 113 votes were MPs and MPs, 76 for, 2 abstentions and 35 against and thus passed the Law on the activity of psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88265	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes so that we can again appeal to just all MPs and MPs, so not only opposition, but primarily from most of you to try to understand that today we really have one historic chance to stop the practice of selling citizens' debts, consumer debts, any natural persons, any law enforcement agencies, and in this way take a small but important step in actually stopping that practice to keep citizens in debt slavery for decades. Literally for decades. The sale of debts is one of the biggest problems in which there are hundreds of thousands of our citizens each year. I repeat, there is no regulatory coma in Croatia and how debt can be sold. Your debt can be purchased by a natural person, a demand agency with a core capital of 20 000 kuna, you have allowed them to operate on the market in such a way that they have the basic capital of any other d.o.o., that they have no provisions on how they must treat consumers, so today we have situations that our citizens who remain in debt call them 15, 20 times a day, harass them, come to cars outside the house, not to mention that our citizens no longer have the right to know who their believer is because the debts are sold 5,6 times in line, and because of the possibility of cross-border debt sales, they call them from Poland, they call them from the Czech Republic, and they don't know who they owe or how much. I ask you to adopt this amendment and this conclusion, which once and for all prevents the sale of consumer debt without the consent of the debtor and that this consent cannot be given as part of the basic contract but only before the sale of the debt. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88266	Thank you, colleague Bencic. The apartment is approved. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Now he'll speak to his colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88267	Dear President of the Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the real Social Democrats in order to once again warn about the importance of protecting the most vulnerable consumers in our society, these are pensioners, socially endangered, unemployed, they are students. That's why we've come to the conclusion that we've come to you and that's why I'm calling on all the representatives in HS to vote today on a conclusion that obliges the government to freeze the prices of basic food products. We've been witnessing that in the last year it's collected absolutely everything. That the prices of some food products have gone up 150%, that citizens are unprotected, that Poland, Hungary, France, Germany, EU countries are taking measures to protect citizens from inflation, and that unfortunately, when it comes to living standards, Croatia is the poorest member of the EU. That's why it's necessary to protect the citizens. If we were to wait for this government, the situation would likely be similar to that of an earthquake. So, a year after the earthquake in Banja, in Banja, people still sleep in containers, 2 years after the earthquake in Zagreb, children don't go to their schools, threaten to fail at 5 billion from the European Solidarity Fund and wait for this three-time prime minister, wait for this impotent government and wait for a simple dysfunctional state, they couldn't protect the citizens and so our task today is to declare the freezing of basic food prices. Minister Horvat's recall today, but I really want to say here, Minister Horvat is one link in the chain, and the government is as strong as its weakest link. So Minister Horvat equals Plenkovic. This government is actually, you can underline under one denominator, which is that all of them are Minister Horvat and that's why, to protect citizens, we're looking for freezing the prices of basic life supplies. Inflation tsunamis would not sink [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88268	Stanka is approved, but 293b, we continue to work, so let's go over the amendments that went to this bill. 1st Amendment of MP Barbara Antolic Vupra, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We now have proposals for amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, 3 are amendments, the government doesn't accept any, so let's vote. Amendment No. 1. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Tell your colleagues, Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88269	She would ask you to record who voted both on this issue and on the next amendment, So on two amendments. [[All right, all right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88270	You got it. So the 1st and 2nd amendments, please, yes, fellow Bukarica, that those counting votes clearly define who voted. We have 107 MPs voted. 32 was for, 75 was against, so no amendment was accepted. Amendment No. 2. Government doesn't accept it either. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And last, Amendment No. 3. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 112 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 28 abstentions and 8 were against, so the Consumer Protection Act was passed. The Green-left bloc representatives' club has proposed a meeting with the following conclusion: "The government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer, within 30 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, to the procedure of amending and supplementing the rules aimed at preventing concessions and/or claims arising from consumer contracts towards consumers to third parties without the express and written consent of the consumer." I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion which the Government does not accept. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88271	She would also ask for a record of who voted in favour of this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88272	All right, all right, all right. Let's vote on who is behind this proposal a conclusion that the government does not accept. Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 107 MPs and MPs, 34 whether or not, and 73 were against it so that the conclusion was not reached. The Social Democrats' club proposes a meeting with the next conclusion. Please don't yell that we can work. ‘1. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to immediately develop an analysis of energy prices and basic life-forms that have led to the impact on consumers in the Republic of Croatia as a result of inflation and the wave of purchases. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take advantage of all the mechanisms available and to stop the rise of energy prices and basic life supplies, thereby preventing further collapse of the standard of living of citizens. And three. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to HS." I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion that the Government does not accept. Who's in? My friend Bukarica, it won't be hard, but you'll do it. Who's restrained? And who's against it? So please voter numbers to register who voted, if necessary, please consult the representatives' clubs, given that there are only 107 MPs, so a significant number of MPs are missing, so let's see who were there, who voted, who were not there and obviously did not support these proposals. So 107, 34 for, 73 against, which means the conclusion didn't go through. Proposal for a Regulation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the EU acquis for 2022, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2022. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 107 MPs and MPs voted, all were in favour of the adoption of a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis for the EU for 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88525	Thank you, Mr. President. Reporters of irregularities were key to detecting numerous affairs that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. That is why we from the SDP club want a short break before voting on this law to indicate that what is proposed simply and there is no other word is not enough. Reporters of irregularities, those we call whistles have been key since the time of Franjo Tudjman when Ankica Lepoy showed great courage and risked her existence to discover the Tudjman family affairs. Through Damir Mihanovic, who discovered the Fimi-medie affair, to Mrs. Djerek, who today reveals the disastrous state of and bargaining in state properties. It was the whistles that made it possible for these affairs to be found out, talked about and handled. The affairs we are reading about today, among other things, are just like Minister Horvatt, showing how disastrous Croatian governance is by the Croatian Democratic Community, to which our knees as a society have thrown us. How much money we don't have for other activities because they're spent through crime and corruption. And that's why we owe whistles far more protection to the applicants of irregularities than the one provided for by this law. We will support this law in our first reading, but we appeal to you during the debate a number of remarks have been made. They must be included in the law in the second reading because otherwise this will remain a dead letter on paper. And those who have risked existence so far to point to crime will have to do so in the future. We protect the people who protect this society from corruption and crime. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] That's our message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u88526	The apartment is approved, number 293b. We move on, then we'll go to the vote. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 111 MPs and MPs voted, 91 for, 20 abstentions, and we thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy has proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: The legislator is required, before the final proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities on the same obligation, to obtain the opinion of the Advocate General on the issues to which the final draft law relates. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 107, 34 for, 73 against. So the conclusion didn't go through. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 231. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, and I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The vote was voted by 109 MPs and MPs, 86 for, 23 abstentions, so the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89143	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89144	Congratulations, counselor, I wish you a lot of success in your future work. [[Applause.]] Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, First Reading, P.Z. No. 186, the applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The vote was voted by 108 MPs and MPs, 101 for, 7 abstentions, so the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89322	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here we will start with work today and as you know and as announced first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 167. Proposal for a Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89323	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will introduce you to the basic amendments to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wildlife. So, the Convention on International Trade and Threatened Species of Wild Animals and Plants, so-called The CITES Convention is an international agreement, and it aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not endanger the survival of species in nature. It was brought in in '83. years in Washington. It went into effect in '75. In recent years, 183 countries of the world have joined it, making it the most widely accepted international convention in the area of nature protection. Since 2000, the Republic of Croatia has been a party to the Convention in international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants, so the CITES Convention along with 183 other countries of the world. The international agreement also globally protects more than 35,000 plant and animal species that are threatened by international trade. The implementation of the CITES Convention shall ensure sustainable international trade in live specimens and parts and derivatives of plant and animal species. The annual value of international trade in wild species is estimated in billions of Euros, and is largely related to pharmaceutical, food, cosmetic, fashion and wood industry, as well as to pet trade. Today there is no segment of life that has no contact with wildlife trafficking. Unfortunately, trade in wildlife is so profitable that in legal trade, even more pressure on endangered species creates illegal trade. It is estimated that illegal trafficking of wild species at the very top of the trade in drugs, weapons and humans is worth it. The wild species most endangered by illegal international trade are rhinos, elephants, tigers, parrots, but also some species from our areas such as predator birds or land turtles. The States of the CITES Convention, and thus the Republic of Croatia, are making great efforts to combat illegal activities by establishing trade control mechanisms from the country of origin of wild species to their final destination. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development is responsible for implementing the CITES Convention in the Republic of Croatia. Following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the CITES Convention shall be implemented through Council Regulation of Europe No 338 of '97. on the protection of species of wild flora and fauna by regulating trade therein, and the packages of its implementing regulations. These regulations transpose the CITES Convention into EU legislation. This law therefore regulates the conduct of commercial use and export of specimens of native wild species such as animals, plants, algae, mushrooms or their parts and derivatives strictly protected by the Nature Protection Act. In addition, this law also lays down the competent authorities and their tasks for the purpose of implementing the regulations laid down in this law. Since EU regulations have been directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia since the date of accession in 2013, the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species has been adopted which created the framework for the implementation of these EU regulations in our country. This law is important, as I said, to the competent authorities, their tasks, the way in which they apply and the process of issuing permits and the confirmations of the EU regulations and the law itself. Therefore, it also regulated the action in the case of commercial use of individuals of our strictly protected species not covered by EU regulations, as well as infringement provisions for infringements of EU regulations. In this respect, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law which is now in its first reading has been adopted to develop a legislative framework for the implementation of the '97 Regulation. Since those Regulations have been substantially amended since 2013 when the law was first adopted. The law was amended only once in 2019 when the amendments were limited solely to changes due to the reconstruction of the state administration, it was specifically established, the establishment of a State Inspectorate where the United State Inspectorate and the abolition of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, i.e. the establishment of the Institute of Nature Protection as the bodies of the Ministry of Economy. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species ensures consistency with the application of the procedures prescribed by the EU legal framework on cross-border transport and avoids legal gaps on procedures and conditions for the issue of import and export licences and the confirmation necessary for legal cross-border traffic, trade and the use of copies of Council Regulation (EC) No 338/97. A year. The amendments also amend the terms of the law, align the reporting periods of the EU with the CITES Secretariat, prescribe more detailed conditions for the outcome of certificates for specimens of the species listed in Annex A to the Regulation, and the conditions for the registration of their cultivation and registration in the register to be kept by the Ministry, and amend and supplement the relevant infringement provisions. In addition to the framework for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Union, the law prescribes the conditions of commercial use of strictly protected species not covered by EU regulations. The proposal also regulates the additional administrative procedure and the content of the certificate form for commercial use of these copies. Specific Council Regulation 338 of '97. and the package of its implementing acts shall be regularly amended and completed at least every three years, as this is due to changes to the CITES Convention adopted at meetings of the Parties to the Convention. Amendments to the Law also introduce a procedure for the registration of species listed in Annex A to the Regulation, such as land turtles, African grey parrots, Jacques. Regulation 338 provides for the obligation to issue certificates for the commercial use of copies of these species within the EU to demonstrate the legality of the origin of each specimen so that the ministry may, in advance, have the necessary information and evidence, grow these species in the Republic of Croatia and be able to issue the prescribed certificates quickly and efficiently. A procedure for the registration of breeding operations of these species related to wild species which are strictly protected in the Republic of Croatia is introduced, and are not covered by the EU Regulation, the scope of the prescribed obligation to issue a certificate for the commercial use of copies of such amendments to the laws shall be reduced. The certification obligation shall only be provided for copies taken from the nature of the Republic of Croatia or raised in the Republic of Croatia for specimens obtained in other countries. The traceability of the origin will be ensured by an account and other documents on the purchase of copies without the obligation to issue an additional certificate thereby reducing the administrative burden on legal and natural persons trading such specimens. Amendments and additions to this Act shall be accompanied by an indication of the provisions on the handling of the customs office and the competent inspection and the provisions on the temporary withdrawal of copies of which are unlawfully handled. Of course, it was necessary to regulate this because these are, in fact, the most important authorities in the control of cross-border traffic of protected species, so customs, phytosanitary inspection, veterinary inspection are key elements in the control of the implementation of this law. The content of the application is further described, the appearance of the permit for administrative procedures of the prescribed law, but the forms of the application and the permits themselves are no longer an integral part of the law and are not published in the People's Journal. Finally, in accordance with the amendments to the provisions of the law, the relevant infringement provisions are also amended. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The e-consultation was held in this first round since 22 June of 1 July 2021 and there were only three individual remarks to which we responded. And now I'm going to tell you in the end, so a few copies to see how in practice, what it means to implement this law in the Republic of Croatia. So in June 2021, authorized police officers seized 152 living Indian star turtles on highway A1. The turtles are placed in a recovery facility for wild animals until the final completion of the procedure. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has covered all these costs of their concern for these individuals. They weren't small, somewhere around 400,000 kuna cost a budget. So what I'm trying to say on the illegal market is a very young one has a value of 150 to 200 euros, grown from 700 to 900 euros, and God's breeding unit has over 1500 euros in value on the market. Also, the Customs Service of the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance, I apologize, in 2017, has temporarily taken away 361 acoustic and electroacoustic and bass guitars built from a palisander tree protected by the CITES Convention. So the estimated value was somewhere around 204 thousand kuna. In 2021, the Ministry of Economy granted the instruments to public music schools including schools in the affected area, so a total of 55 schools received instruments for education and education from music culture. Also, the fingers smuggled from neighbouring BiH for consumption in our restaurants have been seized. It is, therefore, a problem that we have constantly because they are served in our restaurants, and it is known that the fingers to reach a consumable size should have, go through life about thirty years and the way their habitat is devastated is absolutely known. Finally, the other CITES seized in the Republic of Croatia during the tourist season also found fewer quantities of caviar among foreign tourists from Europe and Asia that they brought to their private aircraft. The value of the highest quality beluga of caviar is 80,000 kuna per kilogram. So here's what I wanted to do is just plastically show what the value is, or how important it is that we change the basic law, we do it in these administrative procedures so that this thing controls cross-border traffic to species of native wild species can be properly implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89324	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected volunteer, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89325	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, on 29 July 2021 on the day of the World Tiger Day, the World Organisation for Nature Protection was appalled to present a case from Croatia that took place on the Adriatic ferry from Split to Hvar. On this occasion, it has been warned that the example of the transport of a recorded Siberian tiger on a ferry in a narrowed area of a simple trailer opens up many questions about the appropriateness of the legislative system and shows the need for better implementation of existing laws. They tell us that they strongly condemn the possession of wild animals as pets for trade and entertainment, adding that their conduct is justified only in the event of species conservation or for educational purposes. My question is whether this law will also have an effect on such situations in Croatia, which, unfortunately, are threatened by world organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89326	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89327	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So this is just an example of irresponsible behaviour or dangers in trade and anti-zaconic behaviour with wild species, protected species. I think that, just now, we have gone into these amendments to the basic law that we passed in 2013, because we have noticed that in implementing certain procedures and procedures and the responsibilities of certain administrative bodies in their powers, a certain procedure should be carried out and I think that a clearer determination of procedures and the authority of the administrative authorities in carrying out these procedures through these amendments of the law will be quite well arranged. It is, of course, in line with culture and with the experiences of EU countries that have this better arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89328	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89329	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State and you yourself mentioned this case from June last year when a person who carried 152 turtles by car was arrested, where we all expected it to be of course a Croatian chandelier, but it was proven that you yourself said that these were Indian star turtles intended for obvious or reselling, we are not now of course entering the motives of the person who committed the act. But what is clear is that we must ask from where in Croatia the Indian star turtles. So, there's a stalking chain of wildlife smuggling, so let me just ask you once again to explain what preventive activities are being undertaken to prevent such smuggling and, of course, any other and its form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89330	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89331	I thank you, Your Honor. So the urgency of amending these laws is to strengthen, to further define the way organs operate in the control of cross-border traffic of protected species. Of course, there is absolutely the first customs duty to be covered by the Ministry of Finance and is prescribed in Article 21 of these amendments the way customs is handled, what is done with the seized species, where they are located until the end of the procedure. Of course, the jurisdiction to file and in final and criminal applications depends on the severity of the offence. Of course, they are prescribed here if we look, so we tried to define and clarify the behaviour of other subjects such as veterinary services, phytopathological services, inspection services, of course police services at the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89332	Honorable representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89333	Dear Secretary of State, I have a few questions on this subject. I'll say more in individual exposure. Now, at the beginning of one question, I've already asked that question, and it concerns one protected property, and it's the esophagus of the sea. So we have actually two, these are the centefanus longispinus paracentrotus libidus, so this hridin esophagus and the one with the long daggers. I think you should take off your protection with this HYDIN. So, this dame has gone down, and that's what the experts say, so 95% of our Adriatic submersibles have gone down from that field. So all the algae, all those habitats that are actually the most precious in the coastal belt where there are numerous mollusks, fish, barbecues, etc. They've been destroyed by that hedgehog. I don't know why we're holding protection for that hedgehog, here's what I don't get, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89334	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89335	I thank you, Your Honor. So, the Ministry of Economy in its composition also has a Nature Protection Authority which is an analytical and professional body that deals with exactly this kind of topics, so they have to carry out extensive research, see if this species is, whether it needs to be put into a certain degree of protection or whether we are going to take it off from that level of protection of native wild animals. I can't tell you right now what condition he's in and where they came up with those tests. I can ask, so I can take it in writing, but definitely our office is dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89336	And a respected representative of Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89337	Dearly beloved, we all know that zoonoses are the meanings of diseases transmitted from animals to humans, that just wild, exotic animals carry about 72% of zoonoses. It is also known that Italy made a decision last year to ban trade in wild and exotic animals and that decision takes effect in May this year. Because trade in wild animals and exotic animals on one side is, of course, suffering for these animals, as we have now heard from colleague Vukovic, say, that Siberian tiger. On the other hand, a serious threat to the creation of new diseases, new epidemics because we have all these experiences. I'm curious about how you think about banning trade, and I'm going to talk about everything in the club about banning trade, wild and exotic animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89338	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89339	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, the question is absolutely at the point where I think, as we look at the ban on trade, we said that through the provisions of the bill's proposal and through enhanced penalization through the penalties that we prescribed for that kind of behavior. I just have to say that the World Union for the Protection of Nature in its Annexes a, b, c, d which are an integral part of the Regulation, but are not seen in this law because it is directly applicable, so these nomenclatures should apply, too, as defined by the protected species in which category they are protected. So that's what we propose as a member, and the world organisation then unites and puts it in a category a or category b of protected funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89340	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and the first one on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Anja Chimprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89341	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard earlier today in our first reading, there is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species. It is a legal proposal that, despite the very important regulation, would unfortunately not have caused as much attention as it should best bear witness to the fact that there were only three comments in the public consultation, and in the media space it is hardly mentioned at all. In contrast, in the media, we have often had the opportunity to read about the unsatisfactory way of treating wild species, keeping wild animals in unacceptable conditions, using endangered species on menus of numerous restaurants and the like. One of the greatest threats to the survival of plant and animal species today represents their uncontrolled and excessive exploitation and taking from nature for the purposes of international trade whether it is live specimens ending as pets or ornament plants or products made from parts and derivatives of these species. For example, various products or furniture made of tropical wood, food, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals. The current law, which has been in force since 2013, has primarily led to the implementation of international documents in the Croatian legal system, and in fact details of the implementation of a series of regulations regulating cross-border traffic and trade in certain species, wild species at EU level, as well as the conditions of commercial use of strictly protected species covered by national rules. The Republic of Croatia is a full member of the so-called CITES Convention, that is, the Convention on International trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants since 2000. The CITES Convention has been approached today by 83 countries of the world, saying it is one of the most widespread international conventions in the field of nature protection. However, as the Regulations have been amended in the meantime, the Regulation on the protection of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein and its implementing regulations regulating this area has been amended and an analysis of the implementation of the law has been carried out. The need to improve and clarify procedures and conditions of authorisation or confirmation has been established, and to act in cross-border transport and trade, for example, in animals and plants. As it is said, it is estimated that the law in question needs to be amended and complemented, so it is necessary to supplement the concept of the law with new relevant definitions and to amend the reporting period of the European Commission and the CITES Secretariat. The application of the law of 2013 also identified certain shortcomings, and it is necessary to lay down more clearly the conditions for the outcome of the requirements for specimens of the species listed in Annex (a) to the said Regulation. In addition to the framework for the implementation of the EU regulation regulating cross-border traffic and trade in certain wild species, the Law on cross-border transport also provides for conditions of commercial use for strictly protected species not covered by the Regulations. We all hope that the proposed changes will ensure the protection of wild species of the Republic of Croatia, but also contribute to the protection of wild species of BiH in a way that has a stricter border control effect on preventing illegal cross-border traffic of wild species from BiH towards the countries of Western Europe and across the Republic of Croatia. We will all agree that these amendments and amendments to the law are a positive step and that they are necessary, but procedures may need to be greater because at the same time we need to be realistic and aware that many problems related to the protection of wild and endangered species are due to insufficient cooperation between competent institutions, and constant and quality cooperation between state authorities, veterinary and customs services, police and judicial authorities is needed. The State must ensure appropriate coordination for those bodies and institutions and sufficient resources for the implementation of its programmes. It is necessary to increase the professional training of persons in public services related to animal protection problems and to ensure their education and awareness of relevant problems. For example, more frequent education of customs and border guards is needed to identify protected wild and exotic species. All of this should be followed by giving appropriate jurisdiction to those authorities when handling animal protection matters as far as possible only by amendments to the laws and regulations governing the work of those bodies. We also need to focus on prevention not only of sanctions but of acts committed. The harsher penalties in the event of illegal trafficking in wild and endangered species would discourage poachers in their activities. For example, costs related to the protection of animals and the implementation of laws other than money from the budget could be financed by a combined system so that revenues would partly come from law-makers who should pay in the form of penalties all costs incurred by their illegal actions. Let's say the cost of living confiscated animals for their lives would partly come from the proposed special taxes on legitimate imports of wild and protected species. Although it is not indirectly related to the subject of today's debate, it certainly is. We need to think about what kind of animals are similar to being held by individuals. Croatia does not have enough regulated legislation in the area of trade in exotic animals as pets. The example of good practice is the introduction of so-called positive lists or lists of species that can be held as pets, and which have already adopted more European countries as the best solution in preventing the terrible consequences of trade in these species. In view of the positive progress mentioned in the field of animal protection, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this proposal with a request for compliance with the proposals tabled during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89342	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the one For a Fair Croatia, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89343	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This proposal regulates the conduct of cross-border traffic and trade in animal and plant specimens and their parts and derivatives for the purpose of implementation, in particular, of the Council Regulation of 9 December 1996. on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora and the arrangement of trade therein, and subsequently Commission Regulation of 4 May 2006 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora, laying down detailed rules on the implementation of the Council Regulation on the protection of wild fauna and flora species and the arrangements for trade therein, and subsequently Commission Regulation of 4 February 2008. amending Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 338/97 in relation to sample collections, then Commission Implementing Regulation of 17 June 2013 prohibiting the introduction into the Union of specimens of certain species of wild fauna and flora, and so on, in other words, we align ourselves with documents 10, 15, 20 years old and 20 years old. I also note that the state inspectorate in this form exists for more than 3 years. And I don't know what exactly the reasons why we're so late with the alignment. This law regulates the treatment of commercial use and export of specimens of native wild species, so it refers to animals, plants, fungi or algae, then their parts and derivatives strictly protected by the Nature Protection Act. The competent authorities and their tasks shall also be established for the purpose of implementing the regulation referred to in the introductory part, as well as the provisions of the law itself. The proposed law also regulates the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law and infringements of the regulations and provisions of this law. But there are a few questions that open up. I'll start with an art class. 29, which says, temporarily confiscated live animals, plants, mushrooms and, respectively, algae that meet the conditions laid down by veterinary or phytosanitary regulations shall be temporarily placed in recovery facilities according to art. 67. A law on the protection of nature or of natural and legal persons who, for that purpose, are authorised by the Ministry of Justice until the proceedings are brought to an end. But the question is, what about temporarily deprived animals that do not meet the requirements of certain regulations? I'm just as interested in the so-called so-called. Recoveries, do we have a registry of these recovery facilities, what conditions must they satisfy? Then which natural or legal persons may or may, under the conditions, be authorised by the competent ministry in order to temporarily accommodate the animals, plants, fungi or algae taken from them, but the issue primarily concerns animals. Otherwise, the animal is a living creature, and first of all, it needs adequate accommodation. Such persons who could possibly accept an animal must or should be at least as I keep at my disposal for 24 hours because you never know at what time illegal transport or the situation in which the animal must be taken away and placed unless, of course, the competent animal ministry treats it as a thing. In this case, the law in this form may serve the purpose and formally meet all those objectives and requirements. However, taking into account that animals are living organisms and whether they are from domestic farming or from wild species, they need treatment that will enable all well-being, therefore adequate accommodation, adequate nutrition, adequate care, etc. For example, a register of such natural or legal persons who may provide for smuggling pythons or giraffes or perhaps a Siberian tiger must be available online or online in accordance with the digitisation rules we are trying to implement in the existing institutions primarily because of the customs inspectors themselves, for the time being, such a register as I do not have. Likewise, the inspector must have clear and unequivocal instructions on how to handle such situations. However, in this bill, I do not see them, nor do I see the intention that the competent ministry will manifest itself or bring in a corresponding regulation. This may mean a fully tied hand to an inspector in such situations. I wouldn't be in the skin of an inspector, for example, who seizes some wild species and, say, if it's small hours of the night, he has to take her somewhere, and where else he'll take her rather than home. Similarly, from the proposed provisions of the law, it is not apparent whose animal is considered to be taken away or who assumes responsibility for its well-being after confiscation. From the materials that have been delivered to us, and I would say from the proposed provisions, it is not clear whether an inter-resor group that would include representatives of, say, the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the state inspectorate that I believe would have much to say on this subject. I equally hold the importance of meeting the representatives of the ministry who today defend the colors of this proposal that a fairly large number of judges in criminal cases are using the rule of easing punishment, so the offenders who, for example, are caught in the execution of illegal transport of live animals can receive punishments that are quite ridiculous even though they threaten the life of another living species. Let's look at the amount of estimated amounts of fines within the violation provisions, moving from 500 kuna to further. Judges of the criminal court shall relieve the penalties and determine the amounts which are often only 2/3 of the minimum penalties prescribed. These are the most frequently less than fuel costs necessary for the realisation of the planned venture, especially when considering the amounts of value mentioned by the State Secretary himself here, and he confirmed that it was billions. Have we met the purpose of lawmaking and will the law achieve the objective set by the EU? I personally don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89344	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89345	Good afternoon, all of you, dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues. Of course, trade in protected and wild animal species is a global problem. Perhaps Croatia is somewhat excluded from attractiveness because we as autochthonous animals do not have rhinos, elephants, and we know ourselves that the prices of these animals and some parts of their body on national markets reach extremely high amounts. It is traded of course from various motives, sometimes from the need for traditional medicine, so they are used as aphrodisiacs. But in any case, the fact is that any such store costs one or more animals to live. As far as the situation in Croatia is concerned, we still have one mix. It may not be as attractive as an elephant, but our finger is certainly part of a fantastic eco system of the Croatian Adriatic, and we know for ourselves that our Adriatic is one of the main economic trusts of our economy, so we need to keep it as one stretching from the seashore to the outside, and one that stretches from the surface of the sea to the depths. The fact that the fingers are still being hunted today is being caught and that they can be found on some menus, I would say, and the elite restaurants in Croatia are frightening. Sometimes inspection and manages to do something, but it is all unfortunately in the tracks because many people owners of catering facilities who dare to offer fingers on their menus are either those under some code or completely presently highlighted on the menu enjoy someone's protection and are absolutely certain that nothing will happen to them if they put their fingers on me. On all possible bad sides of taking fingers from the bottom of the sea, you've seen all the pictures of what one part of the coast looks like when it's being thrown at by these people with drills, with these kittens as they're called our Southerners and fractures and destroying a habitat that won't be restored for several hundred years by some estimates. We'll go through some other very symptomatic cases. In July of this year, we saw on social networks how on the ferry to Hvar in a regular trailer in which Šime would normally drive a cement or sand on a construction site, it was beautifully calmly placed by a tiger and not a tiger of 3 months and a few kilograms, but a serious tiger of a few 100 kilograms that someone was driving in a trailer intended for, so we can say freely about the transport of mediocre parrots, a parrot of mediocre size. I asked a little and respected Secretary of State Horvat I'm sure he'll agree with me, but I'll ask him to explain a little in his additional presentation. I found out that these men were transporting the tiger completely legally. It's terrifying, because I suppose you can all imagine what it would look like if that big pussy cat had decided to take a walk on the ferry and get to know all the beauty of the Croatian Adriatic, the question is, could that little trailer have kept it at all? They drove that animal, this huge tiger legally because they took advantage of the possibility, so I'm going to ask the respected Secretary of State Horvat to explain to us if I'm sure he knows better than I do the procedure in which a tiger can drive from the continent to a Adriatic island in a trailer using certain permits issued by the Ministry of Culture. Where is this legal possibility that made it possible for them? This is the true information that I learned from a man who is deep, deep, deep in the system, it is no problem to mention him too if he is doing a fantastic job here, primarily in the City of Zagreb, he is the director of Zagreb's zoo, garden, Mr. Damir Skok. All of you who know something about him know that since he lives in Zagreb, he gives most of his time care for stray pets, but sometimes it happens that we live in a town that is on the slopes of Medvednica, which is surrounded by wild nature, so that his crews sometimes have to collect wild animals on town blocks. It often happens to be owls, foxes, weasels, rabbits, beavers, and sometimes snakes. You won't believe that a respected gentleman happened some time ago that certain people reported him unauthorized to catch wild animals. Fortunately, when the whole story came to court, the court immediately suspended the handling of any case, because it was clear to everyone what it was about, but I just want to show you one fact that there are always people who think it's not normal to take a fox or a snake, but they'd probably stick it all over their heads. Just a reminder, I'm talking to a respected gentleman, for all those who may one day be in that situation, wild animals don't please touch you, they don't have absolutely any need to talk to you, to take some part of your life space, step away from them, and they will believe themselves to go away. Another outstanding example took place several years ago also in Zagreb, when a 5m-long Burmese python took a 5m-long walk from an apartment in a residential building somewhere on 5 or 6th floor. An impressive animal and certainly a great danger, perhaps not for an adult man, but for a child for sure. It was a pet of a gentleman who was involved in another kind of illegal activity, so when the police entered his living space, of course, a cheerful python decided that he obviously didn't want to be arrested, so he snuck out of the window. And he was caught by hardworking men already mentioned by the gentleman, measured by him, he was more than five metres long. Another question for the respected Mr. Horvat. I am currently talking about the City of Zagreb by decision of the unit in this case of the local self-government of the City of Zagreb must not stick to snakes for more than 2.5 metres, but the state or the competent ministry has no such regulation, so I would like to ask you to take care of it, because I am quite sure that no one in their living room wants to see the 5m-long worm. And what we're going to mention for the end is, of course, already told truths. A person who drove 151 turtles of an Indian turtle has been arrested, which proves that Croatia is on the route as unfortunately we are on the route through which narcotics are smuggled, so we are obviously also on the route of smuggling to wild animals and also plant species. Italian was caught in September last year with 138 wild birds in the trunk, but that's obviously the data we learned. So there is a certain number of such cases that we will never know about because they simply passed under the radar or the perpetrators have never been caught. In addition to the fact that we need to raise awareness of the public about the care and need of the protection of wild animal and plant species, there will be a need to take certain preventive action equally as it is undertaken in the fight against narcotics and in this case. Wild animals, primarily those who are our habitat in the Republic of Croatia, are our pride, our biodiversity, is a great asset for Croatia for the future, for a healthy one, for a green country that we must protect. This way certainly includes this law in which we see in principle no problem but only the way in which it will be implemented can be put into question, but we will support it in a clean and well - meaning way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89346	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Katica Glamuzina will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89347	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Katic, fellow Members and colleagues, it is certainly good that Croatia is a full member of the CITES Convention and it is certainly good that, after EU membership, we were obliged to regulate the protection of our wild species when we had not done it on our own before. This law obliges us to watch over the wild flora and fauna of other countries as it obliges them to keep an eye on ours. The proposed changes are of a technical nature and it is certainly good for the laws to be improved. Since several colleagues before me have already mentioned examples of violations of these laws, there is no need for me to do the same, but I will say that I hope that these changes will allow better prevention, not just stricter penalization of those who violate the legal provisions and thereby endanger our wild flora and fauna. Given that the State Inspectorate is entrusted with the control of these processes, I hope it will be more effective than in some other jobs for which they are in charge, and the Social Democrats Club will certainly support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89348	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and Ursha representative Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89349	... So trade in wild animals is a matter of great importance. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] It is primarily because in Croatia but also in Europe it is an extremely unregulated area. As far as the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species is concerned, it is already enough to say to the objections that I agree with so that I don't waste time on it, I believe you've heard them because this is the first reading I would say some more things. So what is current in Croatia is that the ads are full of exotic and wild animals, and what we lack is a positive list and some other regulation that animal species can even be pets. We don't have that positive list in the Animal Protection Act. Why does it matter? Animals suffer extremely in breeding, trade, transport and eventually in captivity, but what is important to note is that animals are a reservoir of many diseases that can spread, and those diseases can evaluate in the pandemic. Therefore, we believe that Italy should follow the example that banned imports and trade in wild and exotic animals last year, and that decision should enter into force in May this year. Italy thus made a major concrete step to protect human health in terms of preventing and stopping epidemics and pandemics. Such a decision was also welcomed by the Animal Protection Organisations. So that decision by Italy wants to prevent the spread of the virus from zoonotics, the zoonoses of animals to humans in order not to return to the same mistakes that have led humanity to the development and spread of many epidemics and pandemics such as, unfortunately, we know SARS, MERS and Covid-19. Since the 1980s, there has been an increase in trade in exotic and wild animals that have become invasive, and since then zoonoses have been growing because they do not know the limits. The risks of exploitation and trade in wild animals have become very clear last year i.e. Before, two years ago. the global outbreak of SARS-COV-2 virus caused by Covid-19. It should be noted that some of the most serious zoonoses are related to exotic and imported animals and that wild animals carry about 72% of zoonoses. It is known that both legal and illegal trade in wild birds played a significant role in the global spread of bird flu, which is 2007. result in a ban on imports of wild caught birds into the EU. It is therefore necessary to reduce as much contact with wild and exotic animals as possible because there is a very narrow interdependence between human health, animal health and the environment. Animal Friends warn that the problem is actually alarming, but it is not enough even at EU level. There are only a few laboratories in the EU that can test certain zoonoses and therefore consider it only a matter of time, unfortunately, when it will take place, for example. Covid-22 or 23. Animal protection organisations have been warning for years that illegal trade in wild and exotic animals has been on an extremely large scale and that it is a business of around 12 billion euros per year at EU level. Large additional costs result from the fight against illegal trafficking, the treatment of wildlife-induced diseases, slaughters thousands of domestic animals to prevent the spread of these diseases, and the capture and eradication of invasive species that occur when they, when they let people into the nature of exotic pets after they are simply bored. So for many species especially exotic animals life in captivity can be tragic because it is extremely difficult and even impossible to ensure their well-being and long-term specialized care, nutrition, and accommodation. And it can lead to serious problems in the ability to keep these animals, so people rarely throw them into nature where they can't or can't survive or become invasive. And the usual examples are exotic pets suffering from inadequate nutrition, injuries from misuse of artificial heating, behavioral problems and inappropriate medical care because they often lack quality and sufficient information in all sectors. On the other hand, certain wild animal species can pose a safety risk to humans because of their predatory, aggressive, or toxic nature. And species like that. Snakes, poisonous snakes, pythons, crocodiles or large cats, primates, can hurt people with poison, bite or scratch. Adult animals can be very strong and present a risk, especially for young children. Therefore, the lack of proper legislation on exotic pets can result in serious problems in animal welfare, animal suffering and this is an ethical problem that Croatian legislation should take into account. It is therefore necessary that Croatia, which does not actually have sufficient regulation, joins Italy by banning imports and trade in wild and exotic animals. Moreover, for Croatia, a major shift would be the introduction of a positive list of animals that can be held as pets. The Animal Friends Association has indicated this for years and in 2017 it even entered the animal protection law procedure, but unfortunately it has been said under the pressure of some lobbies, as it is. Thus, such positive lists are already in force in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Many countries are considering introducing these lists and what we can conclude from their experiences is excellent. In practice, it has proved that the positive list is actually the best solution and a good basis for effective regulation and represents a systematic change that works very well and has an impact on illegal trade. Moreover, what is particularly important enables better control of zoonoses as well as of new and unknown species. As for zoonoses, new knowledge comes every day. It's not some static situation and we're always kind of behind. But national laws were passed when so much was not yet known about zoonotics and the dangers of wild animals. That's why some types are allowed to hold even though they have great mortality before they come to the store and carry zoonotics. And the positive list is based on the latest scientific research, allowing countries to control trade and prevention, most importantly. And so since it's been 2 years. Unfortunately, we live in the Covid-19 pandemics with all the terrible and devastating consequences, and we hope that there is no special emphasis on how everything should be done to prevent any possibility of repeating a zoonotic epidemic. And that is why we call on the government to make a decision as soon as possible to ban trade in wild and exotic animals as well as a positive list as an addition to the Animal Protection Act. We believe that in this case we should look up to Italy, which we know, past the Calvary with Covid-19 and, obviously, it has also introduced that ban and somehow we should be among the first countries in Europe and show our example the necessity on the one hand of the ban, and on the other hand, the introduction of a positive list which will determine which animals are suitable and possible as pets. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89350	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I would suggest that if you agree, since I estimate that we will end up with this point about 1 hour, about 11 hours, so that we do not actually have an empty walk from one hour to 12 hours when the vote is scheduled, that this time we put what is called free speech or presentation of a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives after the discussion on this point is completed. Of course, I'd like to ask those interested in informing their colleagues. So far we have two clubs that have applied, to inform other club colleagues if they want to sign up so they can come in, I think it's working this, namely voting will take a long time to have 150 amendments to vote, etc., it seems to me that it would be smarter to do this than to have one break of an hour of lost time. Here you go, sir. Here you go, dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89351	I apologize, thank you the most beautiful chairman, I don't think we can decide here 15th of the day about it or suggest something to you anyway it's rational and reasonable thinking, but I don't know what's going on with those agents who count on a date that's agreed, and who aren't now, they're not in the assembly, so I don't think we can know there are any services, some e-mails, and so it's kind of being notified in some other way, and not that we have to keep in the loop. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89352	Well, I don't know, it seems to me that here are the clubs that can communicate with it. As far as I'm concerned, I think we can lose an hour of meaninglessness, but it seems better to use it that way, but it doesn't matter to me. Here you are, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89353	Vice President, I think your proposal is rational and that the representatives of the clubs are here or should follow the debate and be there, and as a result of some change in schedules, it's not too important now that this one should be notified by email or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89354	Here I am, me, that's why, here's Honorable Representative Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89355	I also think it's smart, wise, and go like that, we'll back you up. Each of us is obliged to attend a meeting, follow, and therefore there is no reason to reward anyone who is careless and adapt to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89356	Here, thank you, I wouldn't even say it like that, but here's what I suggest is that you might be communicating with these clubmates so whoever wants to see here has more time to log in, etc. until the last hour and when the plea begins, as you know. Therefore, let us not waste time needlessly. It seems to me there's some sort of consensus. Thank you very much, here she is, back to our point, and now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, she will speak to the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89357	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues in this legislative proposal are in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The law regulates the control of commercial use and cross-border traffic of live and dead specimens of wild species and their parts or derivatives and strictly protected species by issuing authorisations or certificates proving the legality of obtaining copies. These permits and certificates also prove the legality of obtaining copies, and the forms of these documents are prescribed by EU regulations. As the amended EU regulations regulating this area of law are, of course, necessary to amend these regulations and to bring them into line. Namely, our existing law, the law since 2013 has certain shortcomings and it is necessary to lay down more clearly the conditions for the outcome of certificates for specimens of the species listed in the accompanying annex and the conditions for the registration of their cultivation, as well as to amend and supplement and appropriate infringement provisions. In addition to the framework for the implementation of the EU regulation, the proposed law also prescribes the conditions of commercial use of species not covered by these Regulations. The administrative procedure and content of the certificate form for the use of copies of strictly protected species from the nature of the Republic of Croatia which are not listed in the Regulation shall also be edited. The SDP Club supports these amendments to the law since they relate to compliance with European regulations and relate to a clearer definition of the concepts covered by this law. What we expect is the more zealous and responsible conduct of the State Inspectorate in order to ensure that the law itself is implemented. In fact, the law's intensities are to ensure a stronger handling of control bodies or inspections, but this will not allow the law itself but a clear and unequivocal commitment of institutions and inspectors in equal and legal treatment against all who violate legal regulations, as well as this law. Today, too, uncontrollable overfishing is present in Croatia to actually use individual animal and plant specimens in international trade. Otherwise, illegal trade in wildlife occurs in about 30% of the world's protected areas, and even Croatia is not deprived of it. According to some estimates, illegal trade, and we're talking about wild species, and we're talking about globally, is reaching about 150 billion kuna. The desire for individuals to possess exotic species or objects or souvenirs made of plant and animal parts endangers the survival of these and animal and plant species, of course, and organised crime. And it is important for all of this to improve the law, but it is primarily to ensure that it is implemented in a consistent manner and that it should be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89358	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the Honorable Representative Ljubomir Kolarek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89359	Dear Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border transport and trade in species. First, this is a reading of the final proposal of the law, and here, as with a number of other legal acts, it is primarily about harmonising Croatia's legal frameworks with those from the EU. As is the proposal itself, the draft proposed law has been joined in order to develop a legislative framework for the implementation of Council Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed amendments to the law ensure consistency of application of the procedures laid down by the EU legal frameworks on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species, and avoid the occurrence of legal gaps in procedures and conditions of issuing import and export licences and certificates necessary for legal cross-border traffic, trade and use of specimens of wild species listed in the Regulation. The wording is also being added, the reporting period of the European Commission and the Secretariat is being coordinated... , and detailed conditions for the outcome of certificates for the specimens of the species listed in Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 are prescribed. 338/97, as well as the conditions for the registration of their breeding and entry into the register run by the competent ministry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The register and registration of authorised facilities are extremely important and important in order to control animal trafficking above all, and the other thing is what colleagues have just asked questions about animal health or human health, zoonose disease control. If someone is interested in what it is to mention the CITES or the Convention on International Trade in Wildlife and Plants, it is, in fact, an international agreement aimed at regulating and controlling international trade in wildlife, and ensuring that it does not endanger the survival of these species in nature. In fact, the Convention represents an international legal framework that regulates cross-border traffic and trade in wild species. Croatia, unfortunately, is no exception to increasingly widespread illegal trafficking in wild species. At the intersection of the Mediterranean, mountainous and continental areas, Croatia is characterized by an extremely rich and diverse plant and animal world, among which we find numerous endemic species spread only in the narrow region of the Republic of Croatia and nowhere else in the world such as. Velebitic degenias or lizards spread across the islands. These endemic features of Croatia are the target of collectors and collectors who illegally take these species from nature and relations into their collections or resell to other holders. In addition to the endemic species mentioned earlier in the Republic of Croatia, most often smuggling and items seized, the items are strictly protected forelock species primarily land turtles or chalices, bar turtles, different species of birds that are often targeted by foreign hunters, then birds of prey, most often cherries, mussels such as peri and toes, but also hunting trophies or furs of large beasts of wolves, lynx and bears, and bird predators. In addition to strictly protected species, illegal trade and foreign animal species are often the subject of, and are made of, objects. Unfortunately, as long as there are consumers who are willing to pay high amounts for a luxury sample, there will also be illegal trade in wild species. In accordance with the proposed amendments, the relevant infringement provisions shall also be supplemented. In addition to the framework for the implementation of the EU regulation, the proposed law also prescribes the conditions of commercial use of species not covered by these Regulations. This law will in some way ensure and protect, ensure and protect wild species of the Republic of Croatia, but also contribute to the non- negligible protection of the wild species of BiH in such a way as to affect the prevention of the illegal cross-border traffic of wild species from BiH towards Western Europe and through the Republic of Croatia, and would also link it to animal health control or God forbid the occurrence of zoonoses. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the above-mentioned Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Overnight Transport and Wildlife Trade in First Reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89360	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89361	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with an associate, here's a theme for me, here I have already told the promoters some of my remarks, and now I'm going to tell the Croatian public as well. Not all of them are directly related to this bill, but everything is related to the system of nature protection. First the one in the replica about the ropes. I am a naturalist, but here I am not a biologist, I may have made a mistake, but that's what you in the ministry or the office will check it out. So we have two types of esophagus Centrostephanus longipinus and Paracentrotus lividus if I'm not mistaken, and I'm going to explain to you, so let's also let those who are now following this in the Ministry or the Bureau give me a written answer. According to what has knowledge 95% of the Adriatic coast, and we have 5835 km of the Adriatic coast is devastated by the hedgehogs, all those algae that, that habitat most valuable is eaten by the hedgehogs. Now we've got two kinds of ropes one's the brown one, one's the black one. This brown one is protected, and this black one is not protected. This black one is causing damage because it makes up about 90% of the male population. Here's the written answer, and here's the answer if there's a possible explosion of that black esophagus that's not protected from causing damage, and they can exploit it or allow someone to earn or have a delicacy on the tables. So, here we have already asked the esteemed Mr. Crichtmeyer a question like that in 4 eyes related to the noble wig, Pinn Nobilis I am glad that this is where the actions were taken and that it seems that this species did not permanently disappear, but that here are the efforts and adequate means to reintroduce you to the environment. Here you would mention a major problem related to wildly protected properties, i.e. the devastation of landscapes, which is about the fingers of Lithiceps lithiceps, so I'm the basic meaning, so I saw people hunting or pulling fingers. I've informed you, of course, of the authorities, it's a matter of course of Sibenik-Knin County, I'll tell you in particular about the Drvenik island, but not only there, it means hundreds of miles of coast that are currently being devastated daily and where the toes are being taken out. So that's one problem that escalation is. Talk to people a little, people who go to restaurants regularly eat fingers, regularly. They're not dumb fingers, they're Croatian toes. And that's a big problem. Furthermore, the mention would not have touched us at all, there was a problem of the chalice, there was a mention of the chalice if I was wrong in the old one, sometimes in the Nature Protection Act it was up to 5 individuals in captivity, I don't know if it's still standing today, and the chalices are being easily and quickly reproduced so people are often in violation, here to regulate it, what to do with the extra chalice, can there be more of them, whether they should be returned to the environment, here so that someone would not be in violation to the law because many inhabitants of the coastal Croatia where the chalice dwells in their own backyards that property. As for another property that is quite endangered because it ends up in aquariums is bar turtle Emys orbicularis, here we have meaning, we differ we have the tropical ones now we have these bars of Croatia, unfortunately this one often ends up in aquariums here so that few people are educated and to explain to people that it's about protected property. Well in.../incomprehensible/... dolphins, bears here I think there's a lot of talk, with the fact that we have to say that the dolphin has at least on the obvious many, I personally see them even in the Sibenik Bay that was not before, maybe the reason that the fish are no longer on the open sea so they may come to shore, but mostly the dolphins we have. And maybe another thing that isn't about this topic, but it's close to this, and it's about the threat of a plant trait that's not autochton, it's alochton, but it's home, and it's about the yolks and the palms of Washington. They were threatened by that red African pipe, so we've lost a few dozen maybe hundreds of thousands of palm trees in the last period, I'd like to see some instructions from the ministry and the institute to the local self-government units, the cities mutilated, devastated. Those palms were ornaments, unfortunately they're gone. It's connected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89362	We have one replica of the respected representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89363	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Zekanovic, you mentioned the fingertips yourself so that just once again, we would like to highlight the fact that every journalistic, every newspaper newspaper when there is a young journalist or journalistic newspaper when it is to prove itself then writes about eating fingers in restaurants. So every journalist at the beginning of his journalistic internship within 10, 15, 20 minutes or one hour can find restaurants either in Zagreb or in the coast where they can be ordered without a problem. How can an inspector not do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89364	Here, good question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89365	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89366	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. I'm glad you gave me a few more seconds to talk about this important subject. I don't know if it's a subtipation of the inspection or maybe it's negligent, ignorance or maybe it's not wanted or maybe it's corruption, so it's also corruption of inspectors who don't want to deal with this subject. So I responsibly claim that there are hundreds of restaurants in the Croatian coast that serve fingers during the summer season. For those of you who don't know the fingertips, the exploitation or the extraction of the fingers permanently mutilates the most valuable environment, which means the literary zone, the subliteral, actually if I'm not mistaken to call it, the first two meters, the three-foot depth where there's actually the most life. So here I am calling and calling on the Ministry to appeal to the inspection to go to work and prevent the devastation of Croatian submarines and coastal areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89367	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89368	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Last-on speaker]] This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wildlife is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and regulating the provisions of the existing Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild... , National newspaper No. 94/13 and 14/19 which has been in force in the Republic of Croatia since 30 July 2013. These amendments to the law prescribe a detailed implementation of a series of regulations regulating cross-border traffic and trade in certain wild species at EU level, as well as the conditions of commercial use of cross-border trade in live and dead specimens of wild species by issuing authorisations or certificates proving the legality of obtaining copies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that, in the meantime, the amended regulations governing this area have established the need and necessity to improve and clarify procedures and conditions of authorisation or confirmation, and to act in cross-border traffic and trade in specimens of animals and plants, and their parts and derivatives related to the implementation of Regulations and national regulations. Amendments and additions to the proposed law provide for the corrections of certain legal gaps in procedures and conditions for issuing export and import licences, re-entry certificates, confirmation of sample collections, confirmation of personal ownership and confirmation of commercial use of copies within the EU. The procedures relating to the Convention on International Trade are precisely defined for endangered species of wild animals and plants, the CITES Convention, which is a signatories of the Republic of Croatia and a full party. Council Regulation (EC) No On the protection of species of wild fauna and flora, forms and documents shall be prescribed to ensure the issue of import and export licences and certificates and shall prove the legality of obtaining copies thereof. These amendments and additions to the law regulate the conduct of commercial use and demonstrate the legal origin of specimens of species that are strictly protected under the Nature Protection Act and which are not listed in Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006. 338/97 taken from the nature of the Republic of Croatia or bred in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and parts thereof and derivatives thereof. This law lays down the competent authorities and their tasks for the purpose of implementing the provisions of this law. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development shall be responsible for the implementation of the regulations referred to in Article 1(1). 1st century 1 of this law of the implementation of the Convention and of this Law. These amendments to the law also regulate the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law, the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration or the Customs Service responsible for the control of cross-border traffic of specimens of wild species, their parts and derivatives, as well as the supervision of the application of the Regulations and the provisions of this law. The implementation of this law shall also be attended by the central government authorities responsible for veterinary, plant health and home affairs, each under their jurisdiction. The inspection of the application of the provisions of this Act shall also be carried out by border veterinary and phytosanitary inspection, each under its prescribed scope and authority. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget, which is also irrelevant. Here, I would just add, in the debates that we have heard several individual examples of abuse or inadequate transportation and ways of dealing with protected species. And I would point out precisely that for these reasons, these amendments to this law are being adopted to make such actions as rare as possible and to be timely and quality sanctioned, and for this very reason, the HDZ Club supports this, these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89369	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will, of course, vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-28-0.u89370	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species, first reading, P.Z.E. 167, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The vote was voted by 108 MPs and MPs, 101 for, 7 abstentions, so the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. Good morning, we're starting a plenary session for this week. First, I'll do it on the basis of an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice have proposed to the HS to conduct a joint discussion on the items 2 and 3 of the agenda foreseen for today. These are the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and proposing to conduct a joint debate on points 4 and 5 of the agenda provided for today, these are the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State's Lawyers. Are we in agreement with those suggestions? Thank you very much. So we have point 1 and we have a united discussion by points 2, 3 and by points 4, 5.
