ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102776	Ladies and gentlemen, German tourists in Croatia wonder how employees in Croatian tourism have four times lower salaries than in Germany, while almost all basic provisions of life are more expensive or as expensive as in Germany. Every normal person asks himself the question as to how this is possible, because the cost of employees in all segments is an essential item of product price formation. The answer is very clear. In Germany, institutions operate, and only a functional state can result in the stability of the legal order, equality before the law, and consequently the good life of citizens. Here is a concrete example that proves on the one hand the functionality of the system in Germany, and on the other hand legal savagery and the protection of corruption made by the Croatian Government, where the Croatian Parliament, led by incompetent and suspicious persons, assists. The Die Linka representative club in the German Bundestag asked the German government about the level of legal costs related to court disputes in the purchase of protective masks. Within a few days, the German Government gave a response to the club of representatives by attaching the amount of legal services, and the name of the office which received the fee by the German Ministry of Health. Because legal services for the state or state institutions as well as public data are known to be available to all citizens. Citizens of EU members of Germany have no more rights than EU members of Croatia. The law is clear, but in Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic violates the Constitution and the law to protect the President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Šeparovic, and hides the revenues of his lawyer's office before his appointment as judge of the Constitutional Court. On my 2020 inquiry about the income of Šeparović's office from state-owned companies, I received a bold answer and a ridiculous explanation that this is subject to some kind of secret. I reiterated the request on September 6th of last year, which means that Plenkovic does not give an answer to the amount of income that the attorney's office owned by the current President of the Constitutional Court has received from the state or state-owned companies. I agree, the Rules of Procedure provided for by the Constitution sets a time limit for answering parliamentary questions of 30 days. Plenkovic's government doesn't fit for nine months in this case either. The identical situation is with the question I asked in December 2021 regarding the costs paid by Croatia for arbitration with MOL in Geneva. The amounts of fees and the list of persons and lawyers' offices must be public and shall be public under the law. By the way, the quality of these legal services and these self-proclaimed experts is assessed by the arbitration court, and Croatia has lost the dispute. It's cost us more than 200 million kunas so far. The Court's argument is really humiliating for Croatia, because in this explanation the Croatian judiciary was assessed completely unprofessional and under the influence of politics. I ask the question of who gives Plenkovic the right to violate the Constitution, protect and hide corruption, and harm Croatian citizens. These two cases, and the example of the functionality of the legal order that I have cited from Germany, are the answer to why we have savage corruption, why honest and working people in Croatia are at the edge of poverty, and that is why the prices of basic life supplies are more expensive or as expensive as in Germany. Instead of being an example of respect for the law, the government creates conditions for the healthy and normal functioning of the Croatian government's work as a protagonist on behalf of corrupt powerful people in Croatia. According to the most unprotected layers of Croatian society, the Croatian government applies the most brutal methods. He charges them high taxes, gives them national property into indemnity, and in an unfair and unfair way he transfers tax to rich people who have acquired their wealth in an unlawful manner. Because it is quite clear that Plenkovic is protecting Šeparovic, but thus blackmailing him to rule against the constitution in favour of the government and the corrupt peak. It also protects actors in the case of arbitration with MOL in order to protect the false idea of the expertise of persons from the academic community who are neither professional nor moral, and which will be demonstrated by the publication of these amounts and, of course, the reason why Plenkovic does not publish these amounts because the corruption structures are mutually protected. I hereby advise them that I will internationalise these issues and insist on establishing the rule of law in our country and the equality of all citizens before the law, and the current ruling structures that have brought rich Croatia to the beggar stick must know that they will be responsible for their crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102777	Thank you very much for honoring me with the name that I am a suspicious person, this very polite, on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives, this will be spoken by the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102778	Thank you very much for honoring me with the name that I am a suspicious person, this very polite, on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives, this will be spoken by the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102779	I don't know. You said leading the assembly, so I...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102780	The leadership of the assembly is the president of the assembly and this leadership is shameful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102781	... thank you, and vice presidents, and vice presidents if you didn't know, it's unfortunate that you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102782	We can go to the details and vice presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102783	Of course, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. And now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, the honourable representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102824	Dear Members, these days the Minister of Agriculture was in Brussels where the auditors of the European Commission introduced her to major objections among others and to the so-called The wine envelope from which the company “Blato 1902” behind which is the family of Miroslav Šeparović and interestingly our colleague, I am sorry that he is not here with us today, obviously a farmer who is a surprise to me, Branko Bačića. The ministers have confirmed bad news for Croatian agriculture when it comes to the EU's financial resources for direct support and the Rural Development Fund, and Croatia will run out of 10% of direct support amounting to around 230 million kuna in the next period. The European Commission has carried out a series of audits of the Croatian agricultural sector over the past few months, and major irregularities have been detected. In addition to the fact that Croatia is now certain to lose 230 million kuna funds for direct support, it is known that a similar correction should also come for funds from the Rural Development Fund. A source from the Ministry of Agriculture argues that, due to such findings, the auditors of the European Commission, Croatia could lose half a billion kuna of funds for direct support and the Rural Development Fund. The loss of half a billion kunas will push the entire sector into even greater problems and uncertainty, and most will be suffered again by small farmers who could be left with no money that they are determined to continue production in any case difficult and uncertain conditions. The European Commission's auditors also directly question the responsibility of the minister and her closest associates who deserve the fact that Croatian agriculture will be left without a large sum of money from European funds. According to the available information, the European Commission’s auditors had the biggest grudges on direct support, due to miscontrol on the ground, and then on the so-called ‘. Market support, and precisely because of the wine envelope, although the Ministry of Agriculture tried to deny that the corrections related to the allocation of winemakers such as Tomislav Tolusic or Blato 1902 winery, which was followed by counterpart Branko Bačić, appear that European auditors found irregularities in these and other similar aids similar to wineries, which would result in other farmers suffering from the damage in the next period, but not those who made the decisions. In addition, auditors also found objections to the four Rural Development Funds, which is linked to investment in assets. However, perhaps the most recent discovery of the auditors is related to sites related to the sheepmeal sector and the unique register of domestic animals. In fact, European auditors have made major remarks on the labelling of sheep, i.e. on the application of the oatmeal lamb where they found that Croatia is using a very small coefficient of lambs. Auditors claim that the coefficient would have to be at least 1.0, which means that one sheep on the world brings at least one lamb over the year. But the official Croatian coefficient is 0.6. In other words, this means that over 40% of the lambs were less registered in the system and sold on black. If the findings of the European Commission’s auditor show correct and if Croatia has indeed not reported nearly half of the born lambs of work throughout this story should be for the State’s Attorney’s Office, USKOK investigators who should determine who is responsible for this big scandal in Croatia. Of course, Croatia can appeal to these records and corrections almost indefinitely, but in practice this seems to be so that in the history of the EU, a country has never been able to reduce the corrections after auditors on the ground put together a record and listed all the shortcomings in the country's system. When all these objections are added to the document sent by the European Commission to the Ministry of Agriculture on 21 April, which criticises the Croatian strategic plan for agriculture for the period from 2023 to 2027, it becomes evident that things in the system leading Croatian agriculture are not working and that changes are urgently needed in this system. The question is whether the political leadership currently has enough power and will to make changes necessary to continue the normal functioning of the agricultural sector, which is obviously deeply in the midst of corruption and crime, all at the expense of the honest and valuable, neither the debtor of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102825	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the other hand, a colleague, Vukovac, injured Article 238 and insulted MPs, while on the other hand, doing terrible reputation damage to companies who, like many hundreds of winemakers in Croatia, met the criteria and conditions and received funds such as other wine houses in Croatia. Mrs. Vukovac, you must make sure that it is a company that has 80 employees, 350 cooperatives and which operates on a demanding market and in this way you are doing damage to both her and numerous employees in that company. You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102827	Thank you. It was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102828	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuković, injured Article 238. It is false that we have problems in the EU funds, the wine envelope has not been used to the end. And if there were any structural problems in the allocation of EU funds, they would not have received 700m euros in payments from Brussels yesterday, which is the second largest payment so far. Therefore, do not make such a disfamation and make false statements about the use of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102829	Thank you. It was the same replica, so unfortunately I have to give you a warning. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102830	... In 238, I believe that I was unwarrantedly called because I did not find these irregularities but the auditors of the European Commission. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I think that's an important fact. He also reacted to former Minister Tolusic, who was trying to take off any responsibility, but European Commission auditors claim something else and all work together to harm the Croatian farmer and therefore we have a difficult situation in the country as we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102831	Well, it was the same replica, so you get a warning. Honorable representative Bacic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's true again, and it's hurt the article... My colleague Vukovac's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Vukovac's auditors didn't mention the company you mentioned twice. The company met the criteria as well as all others and all companies that met the criteria were participating in these assets in the wine envelope. And you need to be careful because you are causing huge damage to companies that are fighting on the market, on one island survive in competition with other numerous wine producers in Croatia. And you have to be very careful, because you could be sued by that company for the lies you're making here in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102833	Thank you. It was the same replica, so I have to give a warning. I'm begging you, let's stop this. She's a colleague of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102834	Thank you. I don't normally do that, but I think I need to re-negotiate Mr. Bacic now. So it is clear that it is about your responsibility, as well as the responsibilities of those who have called the competitions. Let us remember the beginnings when we called Minister Jakovina who, by calling the invitations to tender, favored certain companies and brought Croatian farmers into this situation that in the end these measures were being implemented in a very radical way, and some things ended in Croatian courts. So it is your responsibility, Mr. Bacic, but it is also the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102835	Thank you very much. And you get a second warning. I'm asking you nicely, let's stop it. Are you insisting on your colleague Pavić?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102836	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. My colleague Vukovac really insults my colleague Bačić who has nothing to do with this. Once again, the wine envelope has not been used to the end. The European Funds have five levels of control. The auditors, the commissions haven't established anything for the company yet, she's got the funds. And if any major problems were structural in rural development, they would not have received 700m euros yesterday from counterpart Vukovac. We were together at Future of Europe, I know how much you know about European funds. I'm sorry, but you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102837	Thank you very much, very well, and you get a second warning, so take care of it all. Now that we've actually changed the replicas. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102940	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would use this free speech on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out precisely the successes of the modern sovereignty policy carried out by Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Government, but not by us, which are spoken by those who measure us with the apothecary scale, those who are the most fierce in criticism, measurements and those who are asking us to do the most reforms, which I am primarily referring to the Mudis credit agency that announced the rise of the credit rating by two degrees after the formal decision to enter the euro zone 12.7. What does that mean for Croatian citizens? At a time of crisis, at a time when we have imported inflation, at a time when we have war in Europe, at a time of instability, when we know that debt prices will grow, Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens will receive the protection of the European Central Bank in borrowing where interest on their loans will certainly be lower and will be more favourable and money will be available for investment. It is a signal to investors that Croatia is strongly implementing reforms and that we are a well-organised society worth investing in. It's also a message to employers that they can move on to hiring workers, and we know that we have a record number of employees, over a million and 600 thousand, a record-low unemployment rate, soon we'll have below 100,000 unemployed, a record-based salary increase that exceeds the inflation rate. In the first quarter of this year and 7% of GDP growth. Yes, the most endangered of this crisis are those who are able or are close to poverty and social exclusion, but the government has also set up packages of 5 billion kunas as the first package of inflation, we have seen, freezing the price of fuel that is a clear indicator that the government implements and knows how to intervene when it should, and also, the government and European funds ensure Croatia's development. If that shows, I would like to talk about another topic, which is yesterday's payment of 700m euros in the Croatian budget. Over five billion kunas came to us yesterday, for what? For the implementation of reforms. 34 measures have been implemented and payment has been made on this basis. For the next 10 years, the government has secured 25 billion euros. 10 billion are implemented through the National Recovery Plan, which is a mechanism in principle, you do reforms, you get paid. Croatia received this 818m-euro deposit and the 6th country that won the first war because it spent a certain part of the reform, 700m. And that doesn't say anyone, says the EC, which we are all calling for from both the left and right of the assembly, and we expect an additional disbursement of 700m euros by the end of the year for 25 additional measures implemented. In other words, we are already 60 billion kuna in plus, the funds that we take advantage of where eu funds improve Croatia, ensure employment, provide social services and provide solidarity that we show to all groups that are in some danger of poverty and social exclusion. When we add that by the end of the year we will enter Schengen where the French presidency has just announced that it will launch the procedure and in the autumn we expect a debate in parliament and the council, when we add that by summer we will open the Peljeski bridge as a permanent monument to this financial envelope, when we add to this record season, which is already showing figures that it will be better than in 2019, we show that the government knows what it is doing and that it provides despite this crisis and the great inflation that we have, which is imported into this war both enough and food and energy and eu funds and support for all those socially excluded groups, and businesses with better credit rating, citizens with lower interest and better borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u102941	Thank you very much. Thus, we concluded our position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and we move on to what we decided to discuss together this morning. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103034	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each of us MPs in the assembly has some sentences that he often pronounces. Whether because of a topic that is particularly important to us, or because of political circumstances that require that some messages be repeated. One such sentence that I regularly pronounce for this speaker is that for the rights and freedoms that we have because we are people, because we are citizens every day we need to fight again. It's a big and dangerous mistake to think that things are like freedom or peace on their own and that we don't have to fight for them. The sick, but also sobering reminders of this year came to us with two around always the opposite sides. The fact that peace isn't the kind of thing we can count on just as Vladimir Putin reminded us. And the fact that freedom is not the only thing we can count on that reminds us of the Supreme Court of the United States. The right to abortion, which has been guaranteed at federal level by the presidential verdict to American women since 1973, was abolished last week by the US Supreme Court with 5 votes for and 4 against. It is, let's not fool ourselves with the great and dangerous victory of conservative groups that with their perseverance and organisation slowly, but surely rip a piece by piece of already acquired freedom and the rights of those we often think we have forever. As one Croatian journalist wrote well these days along with the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the radical-conservative group, the biggest threat to liberal democracy and the Western type of political order that we are used to even in Croatia. And with all due respect to everyone who assures us that this is impossible in Croatia, this development should be seriously pictured and responded accordingly. Our Constitutional Court has repeatedly stepped on the defense of civil rights and freedoms, a fact that we must not ignore in the sea of daily criticisms at their expense. He also did so when it comes to abortion and constitutional experts these days assure us that our Constitution guarantees women's right to choose, that the Constitutional Court's decision on abortion is a confirmation of that and that there is no danger. Great. But that's probably what millions of Americans and Americans thought until last week. That's why those political forces in this country that are expected to fight any kind of radicalism and so conservative... They have to make a move now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, I don't just think about us liberals, the centrists or our colleagues or our partners on the political left. I also think of the democracies and conservative parties in all the civilizational countries, who have warmly accepted that the catalogue of fundamental rights and freedoms also includes the right to abortion. Constitutional changes are also a topic in Croatia where more and more is said recently. Now is the time to supplement our Constitution with those rights and freedoms that no one can take away from us. Not somewhat twisted, generally and subject to interpretation, but clearly and loudly that there is no doubt. The right to abortion should be entered into our Constitution. Now's the chance to do that, the warning that came from the U.S. should be enough for us. In Croatia, abortion is otherwise allowed by law, but that does not mean it is available. Massive complaints of conscience in hospitals, some of which then do not provide this service to patients at all, have made fun of the issue and turned it around. So much so that in Croatia something like this could not happen in America. No matter what happens with us and them, the public supports the right to abortion in all studies. We saw last week that it was enough in some politically appointed body to have one more vote. I've been waiting months for Minister Beros' reply to the number of gynecologists with a conscience call in our hospitals. The council sent him an orderly rush, but the answer isn't coming. I have no doubt he has it, but the numbers obviously confirm what I'm saying. The right to abortion in Croatia should be protected by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103182	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103183	Citizens, I have warned and talked for months about the unsustainability of electricity prices, in terms of basic human rights, and this is the delivery of water to households. Five times, five times, I wrote to the Energy Minister responsible for the economy, government and HEP none responded to my inquiry, neither do we refuse, nor refuse to collect electricity for the Cetin region water line, and so in all mountainous areas by 500%, from 2 million kuna per year to around 11 million kuna this year compared to last year 9 million kuna more tribas pay. And now, in order for the water to survive, we must have water supply at all, we would have to increase that price three, four times. By the way, already the economics, the tourist workers, the hospitality in the poor area of Cetinski region, Zagora, Like mainly mountain and mountain areas, the price went to the sky as far as electricity is concerned. No one's gonna hear, they're gonna be deaf. I repeat, once again, the river Cetina produces 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, the HEP is deafening, it doesn't return anything to the people. The profits have a billion and a half kuna per year at the annual level, the largest part of which is from the river Cetina, which has five hydrocentrals, which gives more than the Krško electric power plant in Croatia. He won't hear, he won't hear my ask to the Prime Minister when I ask him a question, he won't hear the ministers, no one will hear that cry from that people. What would we have to do, what would I have to do? Collect water to the citizens, three, four or five times. To the masters who have to fire people anyway. And whose expenses do we cover, in fact, from the poor parts? Could the gas here in Zagreb not have a liter of gas in reserve have not been obtained? What will those poor Dalmatian burns, like and other parts pay for? I am here for the last time saying that we no longer have patience, I am elected Mayor of Sinj by a large majority of votes, but I don't have to be, I don't have to be like Andrej Plenkovic thinks he has to be prime minister. I was chosen here, from no incubator, nor Mate Granic, nor Budimir Lonchar. It's a folk coincidence. But it's my duty as an ear here in the blue cap and to walk in the town of Sinjo proudly. I therefore expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to say what is very important for the Cetinski region and the entire Dalmatian Zagora, the fast road Kukuzovac-Kryzice or the Dicma bypass, which would make the Cetin region the most perspective in the Republic of Croatia. This year you will all come to Sinjska Alka, I invite both the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly and you Vice President, but this time I've brought the red wallpaper, the red wallpaper that I'm going to spread to you exactly where the water is fed where the pumps are on Kosinc or Rudi we have two and I'm going to spread it to you on exactly the day of the alka, with the best gastronomy offer, and you know we have a good gastronomy, arabash synthetic, prosciutto Dalmatian we have everything we need. So this red wallpaper is waiting for you, but it is waiting for you to turn on the dark, you will have to turn off the current that pumps, which feeds part of Split, Cetinska krajina and Omisko hinterland. You're a disgrace if you don't receive the mayor. Blue only for that reason [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] You don't like him.../Speaker off./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103258	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103259	I thank the chairman. So, on September 23rd last year, I first read the text of our prominent investigative journalist Đurjice Klancir on the connection of a highly-positioned SOA employee with a real-estate business involving entrepreneurs related to the gas business or specifically to the owners of the first gas company. In addition, the test clearly mentions the connection with certain high-ranking heads of the Homeland Movement, so for example you have one luxurious building in Zagreb with four apartments, four floors where the entrepreneur Romeo Kresic, former SOA deputy head Josip Jurčević, active SOA employee Davor Franić and a politician, and a small entrepreneur or a small entrepreneur and a small politician Mario Radic, head of the Homeland Movement. So, a colleague, Urša Raukar, spoke about the same journalistic text six days later and asked the same discovery and asked the simple question of SOA, which is to explain from where the high-ranking SOA official paid money for a luxury apartment in the center of Zagreb. But not after Ursha Raukar spoke about it by any other medium, nor by any means. So, I will repeat if someone is not clear, we have a highly positioned one of the SOA heads who invests in the real estate business together with the high-ranking head of one of the political options sitting here in the assembly and owner of the largest gas business, and recently the owner of our largest food chain, but also the owner of many agricultural and tourist land by Pavel Vujnovec, I repeat one of the SOA bosses along with the other former high-ranking softness, Jurcevic, and none of the media sees the problem. So, this ghastly silence around extremely interesting security information, of course, intrigued our attention, and just when we thought that story would be completely submerged, another great journalist Hrvoje Šimičević published a follow-up to this story because now the real estate business moved from Zagreb to Ploče, which is so far convenient because we know that Luka Ploče was also bought in a large part by the same PPD or PPD owner. So again we have luxury apartments, again we have extremely luxuriant real estate jobs in which, through triple best man's trade, triple the price of low-value real estate and the re-taste of gas and the same stalker team again. The published text also brings the SOA's reaction, and this is the SOA's reaction to the fact that theirs, one of their bosses, is in real estate business with the people listed here. So says SOA according to the Security Checks Act and other legal and sublegal regulations, we regularly carry out security checks on our employees. So we have to say that it is rather strange that SOA does not see any security issue about their employee and the high-ranking person benefiting financially from the influential groups related to the gas business of Russian origin in Croatia. By the time you guys got here, I thought I mentioned you, too, because your Mario Radic is in there, too. So, the fact that this is not talked about in the media, the fact that we were called by hundreds of citizens after the speech Urshe Raukar shows that there is an interest in the public, but that there is a pact about not talking about it in the media Well, here's the challenge for me to see who's gonna... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103260	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first plate was raised by a respected representative of Spajic, please, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103261	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238, ma'am. Bencice calls people and tells the truth. So Mr. Mario Radic is not the owner of any gas business and what is said in the assembly is not true. The only one who should be checked out are the associations through which these people got the money, so the team from We can!, it's the biggest scam in the Republic of Croatia and it needs a very good check, I call SOA to check it out, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103262	Thank you. It was a replica, so I have to give you a warning. Dear Representative Mlinaric also has an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103263	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Rules of Procedure 238 have been injured, Bencic's nickname means only the heart of SOA's security agency to work illegally, it's a very dangerous saying and I think that really SOA should deal with associations, with the City of Zagreb as they came to power, who financed them, where they got money from outside, it's a message for SOA and it's SOA's business, not to watch who bought an apartment in the building, so these people have the right to buy an apartment and to live like all other citizens, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103264	Thank you and it was a replica, so you get a warning. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103353	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I hope that colleague Ahmetovic does not have some supernatural power so that she does not turn us as unthinkers into some mice or God forbid something worse. Croatia has been tormenting labour shortages for years. This comes most during the tourist season when for years we have been missing about 10,000 workers in tourism, whether waiters, chefs, receptionists or maids. Unfortunately, this trend is not only present on the Adriatic but also in continental Croatia. Namely, our most famous National Park Plitvice Lakes, visited annually by about a million visitors, is plagued by labor. Unfortunately, there is a good part here and a secret administration of the Plitvice Lakes Public Institution, which puts it politically with us. So far, the Plitvice Lakes Public Institute has opened two invitations to the staff. The first appeared only 1/3 wanted, and on the second, only 20 of the required several hundred employees. And what's going on? It happens that on the other hand we have children who have completed tourist schools, who have completed tourist routes, who live in the area of Plitvice Lakes and who have received a scholarship from Plitvice Lakes Public Institute, and today they are at the Employment Office. Why? Because in all these public calls and tenders, the main condition for employment was one year of experience. Where are these kids going to get a year of experience? Although in Art. 3. The grant agreement between the Plitvice Lakes Public Institution and the students themselves writes, after completing their education, the user is obliged to accept employment at the institution for at least the duration of his scholarship. The institution can offer the user employment within 6 months of the completion of his education, but in the beginning the tender for employment is a minimum of one year of work experience in the profession. And what's happening to us? On the one hand, we don't have enough employees at Plitvice Lakes, so we have certain restaurants and Hotel Bellevue closed because we don't have a simple worker, and that part of the workers is under so much pressure that they simply can't do their job quality. On the other hand, we have children who have completed tourist routes, live in the area of Plitvice Lakes or in its immediate vicinity, were scholarships and the same public institution and today thanks to this public institution and its conditions cannot be employed and watch them leave Croatia and seek their happiness in Western European countries. This is another story from Croatia, and who is responsible? So who else is responsible than the one who runs the Plitvice Lakes Public Institution. Why is the local population unhappy, don't you wonder why children don't work, why are conditions like this if there are so many shortages of labour? This is sad and embarrassing, but this is another story from Croatia where unfortunately it all ends up just like this because of the political staffing of unprofessional and incompetent persons and then we have what we have, on the one hand, a lack of labour, on the other hand, this same workforce sitting at the Employment Service watching us leave our beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103451	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Stephen Nikola Bartulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103452	Here's a thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs. Last Friday, we all know the whole world knows that the US Supreme Court made a decision to annul the so-called. The right to abortion. I'd say it's a really big day for the prolife movement not only in America but in the whole world, and of course it's causing major reactions all over the world, even as French President Macron as a great expert on the American Constitution got involved in this debate with his opinion on what nobody in America really cares about. But I think it is necessary to devote a little time to this decision, as the judges said most judges had to correct the mistake that took place 49 years ago, it is never too late to correct the wrong decisions and in our Constitutional Court which made the wrong decision on this issue clearly and loudly repeat that this decision is not only wrong but inaccessible. My students quickly see contradictions in the logic of our constitutional judges. Therefore, when applied in the right way, the principle of reason and justice is clear. That every human being has the right to protection as well as every worker has the right to a fair and fair salary without exception, it also applies to unborn children. That's justice. The minimum of justice is to give everyone what belongs to him. We also see threats, unfortunately, even calls for violence, already some incidents in front of judges' homes in America and leading politicians on the left do not distance themselves from these calls, even one man was arrested for attempted murder. And unfortunately the left is not able because of the passionate hug over this issue to be distanced from violence. I think we should all agree that institutions are making decisions and that political struggle is being fought further, not violently. So we need to turn off our emotions. We've been listening to emotional exposure this morning, reason needs to be ruled out, and, turn on, not emotions, not emotions. So, no matter how many so-called. The pro-choice side was angry. It's clear which direction this debate is headed. You may be angry, but it seems to me you'll have to make peace with the fact that you're not on the right side. You're not on the right side. And it took a long time, really long time. So, by constant work, we have waited patiently for this decision and I would say once again I am convinced that this question will come at some point on the agenda in the right way in our country. We've heard multiple times during the pandemic from colleagues on the left that every life is worth it, that vaccination is absolutely necessary for children and the like, and when the issue is an unborn child, then this sentence is not worth it, you can't hear how every life is worth it. And science tells us clearly when the life of every human being from conception begins, there is no slowness. So, we're in line with scientific knowledge, we can't ignore it, we can't rule out biology, we can't rule out modern medicine from this debate. The country's movement will continue to advocate the right of unborn children. We're prolife parties and we're proud of it and we see that many agree with us. Let this topic continue to be discussed in public, it is necessary in a peaceful, reasoned way. I call upon anyone who disagrees with my opinion to engage, and I will be very happy to discuss it with them, and I will repeat, I have not heard a single argument that would justify the act of abortion, and I have been doing it for a long time. with this question. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103579	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, this one will speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103580	Marica Vugrinec Sajković, the last witch burned in Zagreb in 1751. She was accused and declared a witch after helping to heal a girl suffering from paralysis. Witches were all women who were different from others. Helping someone to heal, wearing different hairstyles, even those who had a stain, an infamous, devilish seal. Why did I start with witches? Because even today, especially in light of the news from America where the Supreme Court abolished the verdict guaranteeing the right to choose a woman, many women become despised, and some who would abolish this right become triumphist fanatics. Fanatics who would dictate public morality to women. In numerous comments on social networks, women are named as murderers of children, leprechauns, prostitutes, using arguments in style that spread legs and other very reasoned warm and Christian rational words, words of respect. Since former witches have been falsely accused of killing children, it is not a distant analogy that even women who do not give up their right to choose may begin to label themselves as witches. Eh, on behalf of the SDP and on my own behalf, I have a message for the champions of the new chauvinist movement against women. I'm such a witch, too. And I think the woman has a choice. And I'm the one in your chauvinist eyes... fornicators and whores who don't give their right to choose. And that's why all you moralists say is that I am, I am. And such a witch I do not deny your right to believe and be whatever you want. Moreover, both the Constitution and our conscience require us to fight for your right to believe and live your faith, but also our basic human right and our dignity requires us to defend our honor and our freedom, that we live as we wish and fight against imposing your religious beliefs into our lives. We won't let you do that. You don't work from second wife. That's all they've told you a long time ago. You're not looking for witches in us because if you try to turn us in, you'll wake up and get just like that. We'll move your counter-revolution you're calling to the junkyard of history where all of you women you keep stupid and worthless. We're ready to stand in front of everyone and fight for what belongs to us. And don't think we're gonna get tired of fighting for our basic human rights. I also speak to all women who have experienced any form of violence, mockery and rightlessness because of their equality and attitude. You're not alone. We will fight for each and every one of you and we and those real men not so-called. Men like the religious fanatics see them, but men strong enough to walk with us, and they don't stand above us. Our bodies will neither be decided by the Catholic Church, the spiritual mentor to conservative counterrevolutionaries, nor by the clerical parties and representatives of which some sit in this high house, nor by an incompetent minister or an incompetent hospital director. Any such attempt will be answered fiercely and without compromise. Religious fanatics and fundamentalists who dare to touch our fundamental human rights will not be well implemented. They'd better give up now. That's how God helped them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103581	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103582	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Economic analysts around the world say that we have economic tsunamis and indeed, if you look at global economic flows, you will see that there are truths in it. In fact, we're in a very, very sensitive period, if I were to speak vividly, I'd say we're in a minefield. In a minefield through which we need to navigate, and it seems to me that our eyes are still tied. And what are the mines to avoid? Fellow colleagues, these are historical inflation, war in Ukraine, supply chain disorders, energy shortages, possible food shortages, etc. serious mines to avoid. And how do we do that? Not great. Unfortunately, the government is slow, reactive, inconsistencies and insufficiently determined to try to amortise the effects of these mines, to try to avoid them and to try to prevent a blow to our citizens' standards, and I will remind you that a large number of our citizens, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of lives on the edge of poverty before. Any additional inflation, any percentage point of inflation for them means falling below that limit. In such a global context, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Governor Vukic gave the impression as a situation almost a hundred years ago, a little more, when after this same pay phone, Stjepan Radic spoke about it and called some MPs to go as geese to dive like geese into the fog, so little do they look and especially in the context of the introduction of the euro. Of course, Stjepan Radic spoke in the context of something else and the introduction of the euro also means playing with the money of citizens and entrepreneurs throughout Croatia as well as with the standard of living for our citizens. Hundreds of thousands like I said already live on the edge of poverty and any possible inflation, any percentage point can mean falling below that limit. I'll give you a very, very plastic example. A festival took place recently in Zagreb, a street event of fun character and was charged for entry to a sanitary node. The entrance amounted to about five kunas, so if we calculated roughly 68 cents if I wasn't mistaken maybe a little less than a cent or more. But I'm asking you a question, when we introduce the euro, do you think someone's going to charge the entrance to the 68 cents sanitary node? He won't, and he sure as hell won't 50 cents. It'll become one euro, and that's what I'm talking about. At the same time, the CNB and the government do not answer questions such as whether to introduce the name and shame of the list of cheaters who want to use the introduction of the euro to raise prices or, for example, which are direct indirect costs of introducing the euro without talking about the lack of projections, loss of jobs due to the introduction of the euro. Prime Minister Plenkovic says that the non-governmental sector must also take over a certain burden, but look, this is too serious, especially with regard to a government that often criticises the NGO sector to bring responsibility and burden on it now. For all of this, especially the global crisis, I would like to appeal once again to the government and the Ministry of Finance to take the process of introducing the euro as seriously as possible and to do everything possible to make the transition to the euro painless, without inflation and without addition. I'm afraid the approach so far has been quite superficial and unserious, which is something we cannot afford at this time and because of the global context. Citizens deserve answers to questions about the introduction of the euro and are therefore concerned about what a global context we are entering the euro area and how this will affect wages and prices, and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Governor Vukic have a duty to answer all questions to the public. So far, there have been many questions and answers very little. We got the answer that we're not going to run in front of the ore and wait... for information and the like to start when we get a positive decision. We've made a positive decision, and there's no campaign decision or information. And I'm afraid it's going to end very infamously with a campaign like the one "Think of Others, Vaccinate". Too late, too small and not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103706	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will speak for the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103707	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For months now, we have been asking the government to present long-term measures to respond to inflation at almost 11%, but there is simply no such measures. Almost all the measures that have been presented so far have been fire-fighting, especially when we talk about oil prices. Nevertheless, we are witnessing an almost daily rise in prices that make our fellow citizens increasingly difficult to deal with. With growing inflation, workers are hard to deal with, recent figures say that the average salary in Croatia is around 7,600 kuna while the median is around 6,300 and now that we are almost the entire 10th part of the EU and when we enter the euro area and Schengen we definitely cannot be satisfied with the standards that our citizens have. In Croatia, workers have difficulty living, and pensioners are even harder, if they do not barely survive with an average pension of around 2.960 kuna or around 394 euros, while in Slovenia, for example, the average pension is almost 700 euros, Italy and Germany I will not even talk about and what a pensioner can expect from winter, because with 400 euros it is impossible to live with dignity. Singles and women are particularly threatened at age, and the worst is women who are alone. We have 276,000 pensioners who receive the lowest pension, and out of about 21,000 pensioners who retired this year 40% ended up at the lowest. The average pension of pensioners with the lowest pension is only $1,833 kuna and 244 euros, which is only 24% of the average net salary and these are amounts that are not enough for a decent life in normal times, let alone in this truly unremembered time as a pandemic, which is inflations with which we have been surrounded by more than 2.g.. In fact, only in this year's basic needs have accumulated dramatically, so oil has accumulated about 33%, flour 27%, milk 21%, pasta 15 and not counting further, enough for consumer baskets to grow to an unsustainable level. And all of this is a sign that it is time for serious long-term measures to contribute to the growth of citizens' standards. We have, as a club, submitted certain changes, proposed certain changes in terms of increasing the amount for the abstentions, but also increasing the non-taxable income for the student. Both proposals concern increases from 15 to 30,000 kuna so far. What we can definitely point out as positive is that the beginning of the tourist season is excellent not only by the impression but also by the figures themselves. This certainly gives us certain security, and now it is time to move forward with serious actions and preparations to protect citizens' standards. What we certainly insist on is further tax discharge in every possible form and extension of measures concerning energy energy and gas and electricity. We also expect that, at EU level or at European Commission and European Council level, topics about the accounting of VAT on excise duties are opened to get additional possibilities of intervention on fuel prices, because extraordinary times require extraordinary measures, we call and expect too long, and life is getting harder every day, the government obviously does not have concrete and long-term solutions to improve life in Croatia and it is already clear that we have an old good story waiting for us all at the last minute. We will likely testify to the introduction of new measures when we introduce the euro which will be very late because the government has shown us by its moves so far that nothing better can be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103757	Thank you very much. Next is the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, and will speak the esteemed representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103758	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good morning to everyone first. Austrian citizens illegally placed large amounts of money, unknown origin, more than 300m euros, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the rule of Raiffeisen cooperatives and other Austrian cooperatives, totalling 43. Credits in Croatia were offered through intermediaries who had offices registered in Croatia for numerous business activities. The assets were evaluable, if the price, attractiveness and appearance were in line with their notion of sound and profitable investment, the loans were granted regardless of the creditor's credit rating and at first the basic rules of banking business and the mandatory relationship which provides for the obligation not to establish a debt relationship for borrowers unless it has the ability to repay the debt. Croatian citizens have thus become the damages mainly to RBA cooperatives and victims of this system and their naiveties by believing in the rule of law and the rule of law, many, starting in 2005, have concluded contracts with so-called "RH". Investors and Austrian cooperatives, and until today with Austrian RBA cooperatives in a religious and debt relationship, better say slave-ownership. In this marginally anti-zeconical way of business, they investigated, not only Croatian journalists but Austrian, but also Austrian financial market surveillance agency and Austrian State Attorney's Office. In the context of the investigative procedures launched, our damaged citizens actively cooperated with Austrian judicial authorities, but also with USKOK, DORH and MUP. Unfortunately, there is no need for cooperation between all, including the competent parties, in order to address the problem of RBA and others, while today individual investigating bodies are slowing down case resolution due to poor coordination. That's why many citizens lost their homes, unfortunately. The situation with Croatian citizens, the perpetrators significantly improved in 2017 by adopting the Law on the Vulnerabilities of the credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the area of the Republic of Croatia with an unauthorized believer, who, apart from the Government, supported all representatives of this respected HS and on the initiative of the representative. Unfortunately for the proposal of 9 legal persons, mostly from R. Austria, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, by decision of 3 November 2020, put the Law out of force. Because of this Constitutional Court decision, which is based on a violation of the rules on the adoption of laws in an emergency procedure, as well as the absence of a public debate, damaged Croatian citizens have again become victims of executive actions based on illegal and anti-constitutional credit agreements and remain without their homes at high costs and today. The removal of Croatian citizens' homes is once again in full swing based on powerful and executive solutions that often depend on individual court practices and is not a uniform court practice, only it is currently not publicly exposed or politically exploited. At the profit achieved in the area of the Republic of Croatia, illegal savings and credit institutions do not pay taxes, and Croatia has again become a golden oasis for criminal business at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This way, I propose to the Resort Ministry the adoption of a new law on the futility of the credit agreement with the international... concluded in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia with unauthorized credentials in accordance with the prescribed legislative procedure in order to protect numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia in order to comply with the constitutional procedure and which remains damaged and mentioned... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like the self-interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103780	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives speak the esteemed representative Dario Zurovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103781	Thank you. I can't say I'm surprised everyone got into a fight over wine, but that's how it works. We got in the summer, we got the sun, I believe we're all a little bit better in the mood, but what we definitely shouldn't have had is how much we're just the sun that grace is all about us, or we're not taking advantage of it. This other is unfortunately one hard truth, and a great potential especially when we talk about energy. We're at a time when inflation hits us, when we have an increase in energy prices. We heard from other representatives, mayors and commissioners how much trouble there is especially about water supply and draining, water pumping and other things. But what's the most difficult thing about us is that we don't take advantage of our potentials. Although it is most practical to always build up a nuclear power plant and compose, of course, a part of the system that would further supply what with electricity and even around some cogeneration solutions and with heat inside Croatia is a pity to miss the part that is related to the sun itself. Namely, Croatia has 2 times more sunny hours than one Austria. However, one Austria produces approximately 4 to 5 times more energy through solar power plants, i.e. through photovoltaic cells. Also, although Austria does not need one to produce energy through biomass more precisely forest waste in order to be clean ski resorts, to be fresh air, to generally make this quality of oxygen in ski resorts better they clean up their forests and that waste is naturally burned, usually the ratio of 1:3.5 is related to electricity and heat. So for example one megawatt of electricity you get about 33.5 megawatts of heat and that's one way to exploit that forest biomass. Here we return to the problems inside Croatia. In fact, we have 78 countries that are making better progress than we are about progress within these photovoltaic cells and within the production of energy through solar power plants. In those 78 countries without underestimating anyone, even one war affected a country called Yemen. Now this may not be the best thing to compare, but compared to the entire EU, our growth is very, very poor, even according to data that are official from Greenpeace, which I am truly sorry. We can take advantage of our coast even our land and it is a huge potential that we simply do not use, and our legislation is such that we cannot allow small crafts, small businesses, small entrepreneurs to produce energy and to save at least that part of the cost. And that's what should be pointed out. We here within the assembly should make laws that should be more flexible towards these small craftsmen, according to small entrepreneurs, we do not always have to adapt so that the big fish eat small because in the end one Japan has developed in such a way. In fact, after World War II, Japan had a lot of these small businesses that were only growing up, and they first fought under quotes on their local market, and then they went out on a foreign market. Such an economy would be one of the healthiest approaches even with us. Also today you have a bunch of solutions, here we have heard about the winery and everything and everything, you have a bunch of solutions that technological, which of course and practical that would allow you to make it easier to harvest or naturally produce wine. We'll also have a huge problem around the workforce, so in a way, if technology can help us, if we can save ourselves the costs, we don't have to be our own biggest enemies. Especially about legislation and especially about exploiting our God-given potential. I would point out that we had growth from 2016 to 2022 as far as the production itself is concerned from about 56 megawatts to 85, and a Greek country, which is similar to ours, had a growth in a year over 900 megawatts. So now I'm asking you if a Greek is more capable than we are, is there any better experts than the Croatians? I'll dare say no. I believe that our engineering, our builders, our architects are certainly the best in their business in this area. You'd even dare to say that the best value for the money that you can get from our people is what we need to know how to use in the right way, so in the end, we're going to have less direction. In the end, if we don't use our potentials, they'll be used by someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103787	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u103788	... The public, we've been present with unholy scenes that I believed would never happen, which is that they've been driven out of a house on the street by entire families without being able to settle anywhere and have a roof over their heads to sleep. [[Specially enabled.]] It is a case in Novi Vinodolski where 5 Roma families with 40 members of whom were underage children from the city called Kras. They've been living in an facility owned by a local utility company for 50 years, under bad conditions, but they still had such a thing. deck above the head [[Invader: Gentlemen, please, come on, quiet down a bit, my colleague Katazi speaks, please.]] Now they have no more of this, and neither the city of Novi Vinodolski nor any other institution has found any temporary accommodation. [[Intruder: Fellows please, colleague Kajtazi says let him go as he did to you.]] I don't want to believe that this is because of the members of the Roma national minority, but I wonder if the institutions would also act if it were the families of Croatian nationality. No accommodation could be found for these families for the illustration, but the dogs they had immediately found asylum. Well, we have a situation that everyone, that dogs are taken care of, and children aren't. The city where it happened otherwise has a budget of 55 million kuna. I honestly think there could be resources in that amount to help the most socially endangered. As I was saying, I hope it's not that Roma, although I'm under the impression that it would be different if they were Croats or some other national minority and that then a solution might be found because I'm afraid it's not just a matter of action from one facility, but it happens that there will be no more Roma in New Vinodolski, but I don't want to believe that it was exactly the goal. I also want to say that I didn't see a gentleman from the Living Wall, and a great humanitarian and a fighter for the first human. All right, if these Roma families were to be delegated, why don't they do it in order with all those who have kidnapped, alienated or built illegally? Our coast is full of illegally built buildings owned by foreign citizens of Hungarians, Slovenians and others, but it was obviously a priority to delegate Croatian citizens and tear down their homes. Interestingly, on the same day, the object in which they lived for 3 generations was... and leveled with the earth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Apparently, someone was in such a hurry, and they didn't want the Roma to go back there by accident. These and past days and facilities, or in areas owned by the Republic of Croatia, where individual tenants have not paid rents or overheads for years, but nothing happens to them because they have the protection of certain government officials. The delegation was attended by a large number of members of the intervention police as if it were some... Criminals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After being kicked out of their home, they simply found themselves on the road without having anywhere to go. I don't know, maybe the right solution would be to camp outside the city government building to be there until the city meets its legal obligation, which is to take care of people who are socially endangered and left homeless. Ugly and embarrassing that the city and state institutions allowed this to happen and that people would not find accommodation. No one here asks for anything other than what the law attributes, but when units of local self-government violate legal regulations, then it doesn't particularly... But if one Roma steals chocolate, then it's right on the cover. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know any Roma who stole millions, but these years we've seen enough of those who stole ten million kunas and are free to walk in Croatia or neighbouring BiH. As a parliamentary representative, I will help this opportunity as much as I can, so for tomorrow I have called an emergency meeting where I believe that representatives of the institution that I have called, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, the family and social policy, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Attorney General, the Advocate General for Children, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the City of Novi Vinodolski. I can't as an agent do other people's work and find these families a roof over their heads, but I can help indirectly in finding solutions as I have always done when it comes to members of the Roma national minority [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And as I will always continue to work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116171	We move on to as we decided this morning to a united debate on the following two points: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 279; - Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 280 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go. Before that, we will have a break requested by the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116172	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives and MPs. I request a 10-minute recess for further consultations on behalf of the Party Center and GLAS. I would like to appeal this time to all MPs who are not part of the ruling majority to oppose these legal proposals. The DSV and DOV should be the backbone of the judiciary, so the bodies in charge of the establishment, the control of the work and the resolution of the judicial officials. For all those of our citizens who think that the HDZ judiciary is not the HDZ because the HDZ judges are judges and judges in cases in favour of HDZ, the HDZ judiciary is because HDZ designed the institutional design of that judiciary and designed it in the wrong way. DSV, DOV needs to be transformed in a way that is truly independent bodies, the rights of the spine of the judiciary, and not a leash which is directed by the executive authority, and that is what we have now. We have introduced security checks as a means of manipulating the independence of judges, not to strengthen the system of property card verification but to further weaken it by introducing or removing the obligation to file the property card of state lawyers at the end of the term of office or at the end of the term of office. So what are you doing? Where's that going? You've introduced the possibility that a state attorney who's been given a sanction of his duties may be sentenced to parole. It is, it is literally the biggest blow to the independence of the judiciary, to the integrity of judicial officials who cannot be during some period of trial. That state attorney who deserved to be released must immediately be removed from the state's attorney's office, not given the opportunity to give him another period of time to see if he'll be in some violation that makes him unworthy of performing such an important duty. You've destroyed the judiciary, stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116173	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have another request for a break, the Honorable Representative Bulj on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on this very important topic. The DOV and the Judicial Council would be a pillar and the foundation of an independent judiciary, however, we have a problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is the judicial authorities, i.e. People who manage these systems proven on many occasions were those who, not many times, but the most common people in whom they had no confidence. Five basics, five greatest things that the people resent are the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. They are not only as employees of the DOV system here to do your job as independent bodies independent of Andrej Plenkovic who must telephone the state's attorney or I don't know who at any time and conduct who, what, when to do so. The State's Attorney's Office, the Sanhedrin Council, are bodies that should be placed in justice and legality, legitimacy, and of course primarily the trust of the Croatian people. The Croatian economy is falling apart because of justice and mistrust in the judiciary. And that's what I said when he was here once Djuro Sesar that justice was the most time, the greatest flow of time would need a bag. It all depended on a bag, a bigger bag that the judiciary was on his side. For this reason, I call upon you to get serious and put the state on legal grounds, not on the basis of its dependence on Andrej Plenkovic or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116175	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, she asked for a break and respected representative Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes in order to reconsider the fact that citizens have increasingly less confidence in the judiciary and independence of the judiciary from the influence of the executive government and we rightly wonder how it is possible for us to avoid convicts to be offered as reformers of the Croatian judiciary that point to corruption in the system and that it is possible that both brothers have smudged in BiH, and it is clear that this was the only option to save them from bars in the Republic of Croatia, so these two Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VAT and DSV will not contribute to increasing citizens' confidence in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116177	Stanku also asked for a Club of Representatives of the Sovereigns, so the respected representative Sacic will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are also looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to point out truly one disserpant in the motion to change the existing DSV and DOV laws where, on the one hand, we see certain positive shifts, but on the other hand really as though they were trying nowhere, here comparatively I have tried to find similar solutions in our neighbouring countries, there is no such thing as not to forget or without any obligation to continue the work without attaching this property card, on the other hand, there are provisions in the DSV which are aggravating the Croatian public, and they relate to the fact that we can judge the judge that we do not need to suspend it if it is being conducted for longer than 5 years, so my people know the difference between penalties and violations of 30 days to 5. What's in it for you and such a judge to judge us or such a state attorney to sue us, that's embarrassing, take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116179	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Katičić, who also requested a break, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116180	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will request a 10-minute break to further consult on the proposed final draft laws in this united point, which is the final proposal of the DSV Act and the DOV Act. Of course, the public is always criticised by the opposition that the perception of the Croatian judiciary is bad, when it goes in this direction to introduce newspapers that are moving towards facts or concrete arguments to introduce new digital technologies and electronic entries, and here is yesterday's, while yesterday's allocation of funds, EU grants from the NPOO programme, in which the area which is being hit by the Croatian judiciary is huge and will bring revolutionary changes. Of course, when you look segmented then you can hear various complaints, but the judiciary is complex and as such must have a comprehensive approach. I think these intended items are also these legal items that are today at our point and others that have been and... The last month or two on the agenda of this esteemed home from the CAP, the ZTD, the Law on Public Libraries until tomorrow's debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of Land Books makes it clear that it is the overall solution in order to make the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary which, in my humble opinion, is much better for the benefit of all Croatian citizens... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the judiciary does exist, thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116181	Thank you. Of course all breaks are approved, and in accordance with Article. 293.b. we will continue, and I will now ask, on behalf of the motion of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and the administration of respected Juru Martinovic to give an explanation on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116182	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, you have before you the amendments and additions to the DSV Act and the DOV Act which seek to ensure more effective work of both councils, to improve the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials, and to increase their responsibility and transparency. Amendments to the DSV Law to the Judges of the High Criminal Court shall allow candidates in the first elections for members of the Board of Judges to be carried out after the entry into force of this Act which would otherwise be disabled by the prescribed conditions of conduct of a judicial office in a court of at least 5 years, which discrimination should be removed in view of the beginning of the work of the High Criminal Court. In order to increase the transparency of election procedures for members of the Board of Justice officials, the obligation to deliver résumés to candidates, candidates, and their publication shall be laid down on the website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia or the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the DOV Act also stipulated a reduction of obligations in the performance of state attorneys for deputy state attorneys, who are members of the DOV, and for the president by 75%, and for members of 20% to encourage and facilitate more effective work of the State's Attorney's Council and to carry out coordination with a solution that has been in place for a long time compared to judges elected as members of the State Judicial Council. In order to administratively relieve the State Judicial Council, the obligation to keep an eye on the judges and to provide technical support to the work of the Commission for the selection of members of the Council acting at the Supreme Court shall be omitted. From now on, administrative support for the work of the Commission will be provided by the Supreme Court. The process of planning to fill the court seats is reduced from two to one year to determine the needs of the courts more realistically. For the sake of greater transparency and public availability, these draft laws also require the publication of a plan to fill out court and alternate seats and amend them to, exhibit them on the website of the Ministry and Council. In the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials to the first-degree judicial authorities of the provisions of these laws, they shall comply with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy in relation to the work of the State School for Judicial Officials. Therefore, entering judicial duties for candidates who at the time of their application are advisers in judicial bodies will be particularly evaluated by the evaluation of their work as advisers. Provisions on the institution of appointment and transfer shall be made. More specifically, the conditions for the appointment of persons in courts and the state's first-degree attorneys are regulated and only in the order of those who do not already exercise judicial duty. The transfer institution shall be further regulated in such a way that only an official who carries out that duty for at least 3 years can be transferred to another judicial authority of the same degree. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedures for permanent relocation, specific procedures consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duty or of assessing the behaviour of the state attorney's office and the talks before the council shall also be prescribed. In order to achieve greater efficiency of the Institute of Temporary Jurisdiction to work in other courts, the possible time of reference is increased from a maximum of 4 years to 8 years. The appointment procedure of officials to senior judicial authorities shall be governed by the way in which the appointment is made possible by persons who have previously exercised judicial duties with a special written examination of the knowledge. It leaves a limit to the council that they do not call candidates who have reached less than 130 points in their interview. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks in front of the council is increasing from 15 to 20 and increasing the range of top candidates from 10 to 15 to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. Amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council of the catalogue of the staging works shall be introduced in a new step-by-step act of not giving consent to carry out the security check. It shall be redefined to the extent that the phasing-out of the duties in such a way as to increase the obligation to comply with the indicative criteria to 100. The framework criteria were now considered fulfilled when the judge achieved 80% of the judicial norm. In addition, an act of limitations due to the failure to take action in a procedure without justifiable reason is clearly determined as a stupendous act of disorderly conduct of duty. When it comes to the procedures for the appointment of the deputy chief of state attorney in the order of the candidates acting in a judicial capacity, an element of the written examination of knowledge as well as the judge shall be introduced. This will assess the candidate's abilities more objectively. The proposed amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council introduces several different fines in the strict procedures against the deputy state's attorneys. The possibility of a conditional conviction and its impeachment shall be introduced and, in order to increase the effectiveness of the work of the council, the possibility of appointing a special Council of Discrimination, which shall determine the facts and report to the Council on the facts identified. It is prescribed that failure to give consent for the implementation of the security implementation is the basis for the discharge of the duties of a deputy State attorney. In order to remove the ambiguity, the procedure for determining the circumstances of the termination of office and the resolution of the State's attorneys is further regulated. The appointment procedures of the Presidents of the Courts and of the State Lawyers shall allow the appointment of the same persons more than twice, if that is not the case, but subject to the prior behaviour of the Judge or Deputy to a minimum of the amount of time the person has acted as the Head of Justice. In order to increase the effectiveness of the verification procedures and to establish the proportionality of the notified and real assets of the judicial officials in the procedures for the control of the reported property reports, the obligation to supply the requested data by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance shall be specifically prescribed without delay in order to make this legal basis an exception to the obligation to keep the tax secret, which has thus far been an obstacle to the supply of the requested data. As a non-responsible obligation in view of the continuity and sustainability of the duties of state attorneys, the obligation to submit a report on assets at the end of the duty which does not exist and in relation to the judge has been left out. The State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are important bodies which decide on the appointment and resolution of judicial officials. The legislative changes ahead of you will further increase the quality of the work of these councils and ensure better quality mechanisms to ensure that the judicial system is more efficient, more quality and responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116183	Thank you very much, please stay here because there are a whole series of replicas, some of them were already before you spoke. Let's take it in a row. The first respected representative, Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116184	British Justice Minister David Wolfson resigned taking responsibility for his Prime Minister Boris Johnson's legal failures. It's usually called responsibility. Minister Malenica and you, his assistants, have been running a judicial portfolio for the third year that is literally falling apart. The DORH is only after 5 years of the start of the Agrokor affair to press charges against Todorovic and his assistants, and as we know within 3 years, a final verdict should be made. And it is publicly announced that, at the attempt of former DORH deputy Mirala Allerić Puklin to state the facts of the anti-zaconic cover-up of the Borg affair, which was involved by your boss Plenkovic, the USKOK investigator, turned off the microphone. What kind of judicial scandal must happen to you from the ministry to resign? Because the fact that the judiciary is destroying Croatia is well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116185	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116186	Dear MPs, therefore, cannot comment as a representative of the executive authority. And as for the proceedings, I must tell you that democracy, the rule of law, that the institutes on which democratic societies are based are all these procedures but also human rights in these proceedings. So we need to protect the legal order, we need to protect democratic standards, and we need to protect the human rights of the people against whom the proceedings are being conducted. It would be the easiest thing to do without those standards, then everything could run fast and make decisions in a year. So, I want to tell you the legal order means respecting procedures, meaning respecting parties, people in the process being suspects, accused, accused or witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116187	MP Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116188	Article 238 was injured because your answer, which is not an answer, is also an insult to MPs, as well as Croatian citizens. You're talking about the rule of law and what it's based on. She is based primarily on respect for the law. The law should be held as a drunk float, not your way of understanding the right not to be held as a drunk float and there lies a fundamental problem and you represent it and that is why the judiciary destroys Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116189	That, too, was a replica, so based on Article 240(1), you get a second warning. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116190	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State Martinovic. What we can see between the first reading and today's final proposal of the law we see is that a shift has been made to increase the effectiveness of the verification process, and to establish the proportionality of the reported assets and the real assets of the state attorneys and their deputies, i.e. the possibility of the State's attorney and the Judicial Council being able to submit a request to the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance and other competent authorities to carry out the process of establishing the acquisition of assets and that the results of this procedure must be notified to the Council in order to determine not only accuracy but also proportionality. So given this change, which makes the councils stronger, or better, a better way of checking to say a little about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116191	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116192	Thank you, Your Honor. So democracy is that we think differently about the institutes that we're introducing here. So, we who have proposed this law, which is the Ministry of Justice prepared it, but the government suggests it to you, surely in that segment, we have absolutely acted without any figure in our pocket. So we've done this Institute of Transparency, he's been first for judicial officials introduced in the last year and a half. Now, we empower him further to introduce this law the obligation of those bodies that have data, which is primarily the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, that, at the invitation of these two councils, he must submit data to the specific person for which the verification is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116193	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116194	Thank you. I have one minute, so I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the Croatian public, I'm talking to those MPs who are not part of HDZ's unanimity. So until the design of the institutions that the HDZ Croatia imagines simply cannot move forward, and here's what's wrong with this case. The State Attorney's Council is, among other things, responsible for recruiting new state attorneys, for appointing them and bringing them into the system. They're part of the state's attorney, the State's Attorney's Council, among other things, two parliamentary deputies. The selection and appointment procedure shall carry out, inter alia, a verification, written examination of the knowledge. As a rule, this means making an action, such as writing an indictment or writing a solution to an investigative prison or a proposal for an investigative prison. Now imagine who's controlling it? A parliamentary representative. In particular, it is now Hasanbegovic and Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj. Now imagine what knowledge Hasanbegović could theoretically have that he could check...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116195	Thank you very much. You need something to say to the secretary of state?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116196	Dear MPs, so despite the fact that you haven't spoken to me, I must tell you that you know very well that seven professionals sit in both councils. So, two politicians one from the opposition, one from the ruling structure and two university professors. Of course, it's normally a proper legal profession. And if we have these two politicians there, you can think in that professional sense of what their impact on the selection of personnel is. We must agree that it is insignificant unless you think of some kind of bypass channels that the legislator does not foresee, which are possible but I do not want to talk about them. So why would they talk about something that's your fiction and your conjecture?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116197	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116198	Thank you, Vice President. Under the Law on Courts, State Secretarys will carry out a strict procedure for failing to comply with the standards of judges. So far, it has been prescribed that they must meet 80% of the standard, and now it is 100% to increase the efficiency of the courts. That's the word. One of the the thesis that does not contribute is that the system of standards is set up to prevent the rational division of jobs, because it would be logical for the most experienced judges to work concentratedly on the most difficult subjects. But that's not possible, because they have to run after the norm. My question to you is how many norms the case has affected the quality of the work of the judiciary, because it is the quantity. We have exact numbers. But does the Justice Department have any idea how much it affected the very quality of the verdicts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116199	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116200	Dear MPs, so the work of the executive authority and you as parliamentary representatives is that of our judicial authority, the state's attorney's authority, which is strong under our Constitution and by law, we independently make as good a legal framework as possible for them to serve that fundamental purpose, which is to be just, that a Croatian citizen, a Croatian entrepreneur, can receive adequate protection and adequate justice from them. We're making an effort to make improvements in that direction. Every time a new institute, and this isn't new, so until now, it's been tried in front of the DSV and DOV by those who broke the norm, so now we've raised it from 80 to 100 just because of this perception that we want to fix together with all of you, and we're sure it won't be any haranga and hacks to judges, but we have to send a message to the citizens that we want to that the norms are fulfilled. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116201	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116202	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Namely, the problem of the judiciary is high and trust in the judicial system is definitely too small by Croatian citizens and this is often cited as one of the main reasons why people leave this country. Namely, under the applicable law which has been the State's attorneys and their deputies since 1.1.2020, within 30 days of their entry into service, they must submit their property card and do so within 30 days of the completion of their duties. These amendments and the amendments to the laws no longer have to bear the property card within 30 days of his duty being completed, and they have to start at the beginning, so it's completely unclear why even when you're erasing at the end, why do they even have to file at the beginning now and what is the urgency that this is happening if we can't compare the initial state and the final state? And do you feel that these changes are going hand in hand to increase trust in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116203	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116204	Your Honor, you are not going to anyone's hands simply this is a functional matter, a functional solution in the law since these people are leaving the DAV and the state's authority, so they're leaving their jurisdiction. It's not the possibility that the authorities of this country are still checking it out, so we have some sort of famous article in the IRS. 63, which also speaks of disproportionateness. So they can't come here anymore under a tight D.O.V. after they've ceased their duty as a state attorney and for these reasons it's removed as dysfunctional.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116205	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116206	I thank the chairman. Therefore, it seems to me that in this proposal it is not possible to regulate the delay of a judge by acting in an individual case, in particular when it comes to the case where judges need more than a year from the time of receipt of the action to determine the date of the preparatory hearing. We know that such situations often happen in practice, so why didn't we include this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116207	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116208	Comrade Vukovac, a legislator cannot simply solve everything that is possible in life. So, you as a lawyer who's been going to court, I know that, but I've been a lawyer for years, and I know that not abuses like that, but there are bad judges I'd say. But there are procedural tools, therefore, and in relation to the President of the Court, in relation to the compensation of the damage to the litigation of the judiciary, there are a number of tools that we who have done these laws felt that such an intervention is not a place of trial here, but it could certainly be undermined by the strict act of disorderly conduct of a judicial duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116209	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116210	Your Honor, Secretary of State. As a long-standing judicial officer and a lawyer, you have the knowledge that makes you a relevant associate, so I am interested, especially in the other system, so I am interested in how you interpret and why, which is a political legal basis, which is a generally preventive emergency that you simply raised the level of detention of both state attorneys and judges in a judicial... state's attorney's office, regardless of the criminality of five years or more, and on the other hand we have officers, customs officers, who even for moral acts of moral delintological, ethically if they violate the rules, which is justified?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116211	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116212	Your Honor. If that's the case, she acts in a permanent manner and I would agree with you, but I have listened to you in the assembly on many occasions when you talk about the rule of law, but when you stress the presummation of innocence, innocence, so I don't advocate any inequality against anyone. But you need to know that we have serious traffic-related penalties for various other crimes, would it be socially justified that these people are suspended from doing their job, and they can do it? In any situation, an assessment of the DSV or the State's Attorney's Board may react and prevent it from appearing in a courtroom on any side if it considers it socially unwarranted. But I do not advocate, I agree with you that inequality should be removed from legal traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116213	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116214	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here in relation to the first reading, a provision has been supplemented by which all those candidates who approach the interview, to say so in front of the DOV and DSV, will be published in a transparent manner so that the number of points of all those who approach it is seen and I think it is good because not everyone will be invited to the interview but only those who have a chance of being chosen in the final number of points they can make. However, what I am interested in and what some obstacles have been about, we are introducing a tight council that can only carry out a tight procedure in a way that determines only facts, which is reported by the DOV, or DSV, which then makes a decision. I'm curious, it will certainly speed up the proceedings, but whether the DOV, which finally and under its constitutional jurisdiction, decides in this way, will still be denied for that direct impression from the hearings itself. And will that affect quality? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116215	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116216	Dear MPs and colleagues, so that's where it went for, also for functionality. If a number of cases were to appear before the State's Attorney's Council, this Council, which is also advocated by law, are members of the State's Attorney's Council. So they would study a dozen writings in a constant way, determine the actual state of affairs, and excerpt the councils that would eventually decide. You don't take it out of jurisdiction in fact, the council is made up of them, all 11 members. So, there'll be regular reporters. It's common everywhere in legal proceedings. So, I was a member of the administrative body of the Croatian Bar Association, and there we also had a man reporter who had 20 and some people introduced to a fact-finding substrate and suggested taking a stand, and then they were ultimately as this case will be deciding whether to establish an offence and whether to determine the sanctions for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116217	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116218	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I will not say any news if I say that we are generally not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary. We are not satisfied on this side either, and neither are those who are actors because when we look at the polls they are, they show that dissatisfaction is all, the most dissatisfaction is ultimately citizens. Therefore, when you go into some kind of amendments and supplement laws such as these amendments and additions to the law, we somehow expect some step forward. We expect a step forward. You here talk often and reason on replicas of form. It's about the form that you've decided on, the form that I'm interested in, the form that we're going to get, that step. So, to try to tell us in 2-3 sentences that this step will be important and important to these amendments and amendments to the law that will allow us to get better in the judiciary because I'm afraid we're coming. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] often to the part where the man went missing, and here where the contents went missing. [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116219	Thank you very much, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116220	Dear MPs, not lawyers, but philosophers say the form guaranteed content. So the form in that sense is important. What improvements do we see here? So we see them, I present them, whoever wants to see them can see them. The one who won't, of course, can only see the bad side. But we have also done these amendments to the process of appointing, relocating, so reference to work to other judicial bodies of the same level has been made primarily transparent. We introduced property cards for judicial officials a few years ago, which hasn't been introduced very long. But I must tell you that regardless of these two councils, I am free to say the pride of our democracy. I've been visiting the justice systems of some EU Member States, they've got this thing worse solved than we have in the sense that their councils are like this. Much more tied to executive power than ours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116221	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116222	Thank you very much. Here I'd just like you to explain to us and the public for a little while. So a state attorney and a judge must commit a crime for more than five years in order not to be in that place anymore. What about this under five years? What's this under five years? So up to five years in prison, he can judge us, he can bring us in, he can prosecute us, he can get us, I don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about state lawyers. If you can explain this article you have here, is it unclear that we will be tried and investigated by people who are sentenced to 5 years in prison. Only out of five years in prison will they Give me a minute to explain that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116223	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116224	Dear Representative Bulj, so I think you've mixed up those against whom the proceedings are being conducted, you've finally said those who are convicted. So, I'm not sure what you asked me, whether for those who are convicted or for those against whom the proceedings are being conducted. For those who are condemned of course can no longer be, they are no longer worthy of judicial or state's attorney's duty. In the conduct of criminal proceedings, there is a specific situation in relation to the type of criminal offence suspected by the person. A moment ago, I also replied to an esteemed representative that the presumption of innocence, we all like to invite her, would be said when it suits us. In this situation and these people are protected by the presumption of innocence, and the functioning of the judicial authority and the state's attorney's office is one important social, social interest and this is exactly the way it is. Of course, though, be without worry, neither the President of the Court, nor the head of the State’s Attorney’s Office will allow a person he deems to have no dignity at this time to act accordingly. He's gonna ask the DSV, and he's got a series of tools that he can do. suspend until further notice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116225	Thank you, Mr. Bull, no, yes, Mr. Bull's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116226	Thank you very much. Injury to Article 238, I said clearly. What is it that this one can conduct a procedure if up to five years of law is conducted against him by prison processes, and those of 5 can't. So we're going to be tried and the state's attorney is going to take action on us by those who, that's the same thing, then what equality is, of which you arrested these ministers. So what are these judges and state lawyers, the gods on earth? I know it has to be independent. But this is a precedent, I don't know if this is anywhere else. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116227	It was a replica, a reminder, please, it was a replica. Mr. Jaksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116228	Dear Mr Martinovic, in a debate or a public consultation of amendments to the DSV Act, a lot of people working in the state's attorney's office have been involved. And they asked the question of Article 51(2), which is amended and said that for a judge of the municipal, commercial and administrative court, a person who has graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials and who is not acting in a judicial capacity could be appointed. Isn't that maybe a little bit too rigid, not to say and discriminatory because this turns out that, say, the deputy state attorneys will never be able to report to the competition again to be judges?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116229	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116230	Your Honor. So, these institutes that regulate the entry of judicial officials are socially troubled for the last ten, 15 years, and I believe that there is a legitimate interest in the professional primary public, but also in the general public that this institute is being arranged in a good and quality way. The current legislators and so far the governments that had this legislative initiative and the council adopted it had this attitude that doesn't agree with your position. I personally think that the system should be done so that it can be made available to the highest-quality personnel, that tools are developed that will enable the quality of this quality to be checked and that then, indeed, in the state's attorney's office, but also in the courts, we have the best that our society can offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116231	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116232	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I am listening to all the lines and it's interesting and how everyone forgot about the biggest state's attorney's affair in the last few years, and it was an affair involving Chief State Attorney Drazen Jelenić. To remind all those present, he's no longer a state attorney, chief state attorney because he was a member of a mass organization. Now that one of those was a very specific situation, I'm not going to say that I'm wrong that it's not, I'm actually glad, but is such a situation prevented or foreseen by this bill? Is it possible that it's going to go through some kind of additional background check or I don't know some other institute that doesn't have a similar situation that we're changing the state's attorney, the attorney general, because he's a member of some banned organization or organization that doesn't fit our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116233	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116234	Your Honor, I repeat, it is difficult for the legislation, no matter what will it has foresaw everything life can bring. This law is not a fundamental law for state lawyers, we have a Law on State's Attorney's Office which is much more thorough than those terms, it's matter from that law. But I agree that, as a society through these institutions, through laws, we must have the tools to anticipate and prevent as many such situations as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116235	Thank you. Mr. Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116236	Thank you. Here's the esteemed, according to the analysts of the World Economic Forum of our Justice, without any offense to anyone or any country, in a worse position than the independence of the judiciary in one Congo, Sierra Leone, Mozambique, and I'm just wondering if you think maybe we're a little late with some things that in every private company in every private company in our country are a perfectly normal thing, whether you're an NKV worker or a VSS worker. I see only now in the amendments to the Law of Judgment and the Council of Lawyers that a résumé should be attached, so I wonder how these people were then chosen, based on some impression or how it went? Don't you think that we have a little bit of a cough over being in the EU and behind Bulgaria and even behind countries that are not in the EU like Serbia without talking about Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116237	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116238	Your Honor. So, I haven't had a chance to see those analyses you're talking about, I'm not reluctant to trust you, so I guess you've seen those data somewhere, but we're not introducing anything into this legal order of ours in this segment for the first time. So, the checks have existed so far, so I'm thinking knowledge checks, so the procedure has been pretty transparent, and now we're just doing it harder and more transparently, if everything has to be published on the Ministry's pages, the Supreme Court's pages and the state's attorney's pages. So we're raising the criteria in order to fix what you're talking about and what we're all talking about and what we all, I hope we want together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116239	Thank you. Mr. Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116240	Your Honor, State's Attorney, Secretary of State, excuse me. When you were talking about how many countries actually envy our legal solutions, the independence of the judiciary, the resolution of the DSV and everything that is related to the whole concept of justice. However, what they do not envy is actually the perception of the judiciary in Croatia, but also abroad. Namely, as you know, the judiciary is treated through public opinion research in a way that is considered one of the biggest problems in Croatia. That's how they treat it, in the end I'd say these analyses that my colleague mentioned, which means we're independent behind Mozambique, which seems strange after all. And will these changes lead to any fundamental changes, not only in perception but also in the reality of the Croatian judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116241	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116242	Your Honor, I find it difficult to say now that this is now taking place and after 15 days we will be the perfect rule of law, the state's attorney's office will function perfectly, the courts will function perfectly, but we of these legal documents, these legal changes, create assumptions for better functioning, for better supervision of officials' finances, for better supervision of their compliance with the law, for better control of the verticals. We're making efforts, I'd say along with you, with the MPs, that segment we make better, and that's the only guarantee that tomorrow we'll have better judgmental power. I wouldn't agree with you at all if I've been a part of the judicial scene for a long time, so private, so here at this position of officials, I think we've taken huge steps forward. If others run faster, we can talk, but the judiciary and our fate rule are much better today. Of course, there are actors who oppose these changes, and you can see that when some legal changes occur that there are actors inside those judicial families that are against you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116243	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you for now. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, and first of all by clubs, the Mosta Club, first Mr. Kujundzic, then Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116244	Thank you to the chairman, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. By listening to you here, you really get the impression that these changes, like all of them, are really good. I believe in human beings that you have indeed read everything here as well as every single pen that has participated in writing these amendments that has written them with a certain intensity to eliminate everything that is negative in our Croatia. And even that doesn't matter, what's important is that everyone and every pen that wrote this in the evening when he lays down with his God feels the peace and sense of freedom he had in writing this. What I will apostrophe exclusively will result from everything that exists in our Croatia. It is true that any system, so and specifically and this law and the procedures and choices itself, contains people who are honest, good and honest, most often quiet about whom we do not read, whose names we do not know, but whose names are given to them by individual escapades of greedy individuals. The above changes can therefore be placed in the category of formal part of the change, but what is essential to me is the Council's restriction that the interview does not call candidates who have achieved less than 130 points of duty, the reasons why this again knows who wrote this. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during a conversation in front of the council is increasing from 15 to 20, this is, in my opinion, a stumbling block. It seems 2009 to me. When a member of the D.O.V. or a court judge, I don't remember very well, chose or voted for a state attorney or gave his vote for his daughter from his colleague, you know how he explained that he had good genetic predisposition. In these changes that I've quoted here, I'm afraid there's enough and a solution waiting for us because this one here doesn't have to be the fifth one, but it can be chosen by 135th base of this conversation and raising the number of points. I repeat, if that is the case, we live in Croatia in which unfortunately the perception of complete DORH is what it is, the perception of the judiciary is what it is, whether it is justified, thanks to individual bad cases, it has generally been bad, no, so we all know the good part and the lawyer or we have them in our environment whether our friends, whether family members who we know are doing a decent job, but the law should, unfortunately, come from those who are prone to machinations. This here I fear may lead us to be chosen by someone for whom there is a uniform opinion of all those who sit on a council independently or unfoundedly or where there is no starting point of what is called quality. Is that how it's gonna be, of course we'll see in the time that's ahead of us. We are always left with the fact that in general speaking of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia it is a shame to have Zdravko Mamic reform our judiciary. I know those of you who write all these things and bring them good-looking aren't. I don't know if it's worth walking down the street that someone doesn't point your finger, but what's certainly your job is to cut the space for the machinators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116245	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116246	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and respected secretary of state. The objectives of the law they touch in the judicial system should be to increase justice, independence, efficiency, zero tolerance to clientalism and corruption. With the amendment of the DSV Act today, can you tell us what exactly the goal of these lists you have succeeded in achieving? Not one, not one because you've made a catastrophic mistake, not that you haven't reached your goal, but you're doing a justice system erosion. So, instead of volunteering for the expertise and knowledge of candidates who want to apply for DSV members, you are not giving points for their expertise and for their knowledge, you are giving points for oral conversation, and no one knows what it is when it comes to oral conversation because interesting oral conversations are not recorded, they are not publicized, so that you can freely assess beauty in oral conversation, you may be estimating beauty, you may not know it, you may be estimating the battle of voice, but you do not assess expertise, you are not estimating knowledge, because that you are giving more points for the knowledge achieved in the exam and for the expertise, you are not giving points, you are increasing points for oral conversation, and you do not know what happens on that conversation, which opens up a bigger space for manipulation for the members of the existing DSV, and therefore a huge space for the selection of judges to be brought down to the site. A very interesting item, is that you are now coming to the Constitutional Court for lawsuits and going through lawsuits because you did this. Because you have to explain to the Croatian public, and also to the Constitutional Court how that someone who is 169 on the list when you look at expertise and achieved knowledge can get more on oral conversation than they got, I don't know, 11 on the list when you watch expertise and knowledge because that's what you do, and now by increasing the points for oral conversation you do even more room for manipulation. If judges are chosen as a result, then how can we expect clientelism to be punished when, with the help of clientelism, DSV members are elected, and thus judges. How can we expect that there will be less corruption, if DSV members feel that it is ethically right to be chosen in a clientelistic way? How can we expect justice if the choice of judges smells like nepotism, clientelism and corruption? How can we expect the expertise of judges if the expertise is not approved? How can we expect efficiency if there is no expertise? At all the important goals that need to be achieved to change the law on the judicial system, you have fallen. Only with one disastrous change. Once. Don't try to do this, don't do this. After all, you want to assign more points to the oral exam, publish publicly. You record the conversation and make it public, so we can see which genius is hiding behind a person, maybe there's a genius that doesn't speak well in writing, but perfectly explains it in oral conversation. There may be such geniuses, but we all know very well in Croatia how to end the story you're setting. Nothing's public, everything's being arranged behind the table, and in the end, those who deserve to be judges will be court counselors for life because they keep their opinions and their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116247	Thank you, too. Just one notice. At the diplomatic gallery of the delegation, there is the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament of the Republic of Albania under the leadership of the Committee Chairman Mrs. Mime Kodhelly, if I read it correctly, and if I'm not clapping for... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Applause.]] Thank you for being here. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj, Social Democrats' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116248	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In my debate in the first reading on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on DOV and DSV, I have made a series of remarks and proposals, however, it seems that the Government does not hold much to the comments and proposals of parliamentary representatives and MPs, as well as to the observations coming from the Supreme Court because it is a list of proposals, remarks and opinions given on the proposal of both laws which the applicant did not accept much greater than those he accepted. However, statistics on the perception of the situation in the judiciary do not go to the government. According to the Eurobarometer's results on the perception of judicial independence, Croatia is last in last place. The main reason for not trusting in the independence of the judiciary is because of the opinion, interference or pressure of the government or politicians, and in the second place, the interference or pressure that comes from economic circles. Whether these changes will help to achieve the objectives of the Article. 3 The DSV Act that the Council is an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the DSV in the Republic of Croatia. It is also difficult because the DORH report for 2021 states that it is necessary to team up and return the DORH. It is also said that the DORH needs to ensure the necessary material and financial conditions for work in order to be able to counter corruption, organised crime and economic crime more effectively and to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. And that citizens are not satisfied with the efficiency of which the DORH opposes corruption and organised crime and economic crime and protects the assets of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to all in Croatia and to the sparrows of the branch. And then 8 days ago, we have a press conference from Mostar, a fugitive convict, Zdravko Mamić, who vulgarly, with no choice at all, collapsed on the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, including the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, the court in Osijek and the DSV. And we rightly ask ourselves, how is it possible for the fugitive convicts to offer themselves to us as reformers of the Croatian judiciary that point to corruption in the system and how it is possible for them to slip along with their brother in BiH, when it was clear to everyone that it was their only and most profitable option not to end up behind bars in the Republic of Croatia. But not only does it turn out that we are criticising it, it is good that the first reading remarks have been adopted that the points of the candidates have been reached during the discussion with the DSV on the Council's website, as well as the résumés of members' candidates. Councils. The adoption of the DORH proposal shall be subject to the following conditions: 103. The law on the State Attorney's Council shall be complemented by a way to prescribe the obligation of the Tax Administration and other competent authorities to, at the request of the National Attorney's Council without delay from the delivery of the requested notice and data. It also accepted the State Judicial Council's proposal that, if necessary, the Council may request the IRS to carry out the examination procedure of the way in which the judges' assets are acquired. However, when the head of the Department of Tax fraud at the Ministry of Finance has received more than 10 000 kunas in order to return them to the state budget, it is not clear whether we can rely on the IRS data without stronger internal control in the IRS itself. The government also considers as a proposer the groundless remarks from the parliamentary debate that the increase in the number of points from 15 to 20 that the Council may assign to candidates in the process of appointing judges will reduce the objectivity of these proceedings. We continue to argue that there are no objective criteria for estimating the response to these talks, which enables nepotism and clientelism and negative selection and further loss of citizens' trust in the judiciary. The government also did not adopt the remarks that we made in the first reading debate concerning periodic security checks on all judges. The proposal states that in order to strengthen the strict responsibility of judges of the catalogue of strict works, it is complemented by the strict lack of consent to carry out security checks in accordance with the latest amendments to the Law on Courts prescribed by the periodic security check every five years for judges. This proposal is opposed by the Association of Croatian Judges, the European Association of Judges, the Supreme Court, etc. Security checks by judges every five years can bring judges into the court's position of dependence on politicians, executive authorities, and no EU country has said such a solution and Supreme Court President Radovan Dobronic. It is clear that the SOA is always under the supervision of the executive authority, and therefore the proposed provision is discriminatory in relation to judges as officials of the judicial authority because, as part of equality, the three state authorities do not carry out such periodic checks either for the holders of the executive authority or for the legislative authorities. No comments have also been adopted concerning an increase in the percentage of compliance with the framework criteria for the work of judges for the orderly conduct of judicial duties. Under orderly conduct of duty, the duty to meet the framework criteria for the work of judges from 80 per cent to 100 per cent is increased, and, at the same time, the disorderly conduct of the duties determines the statute of limitations due to the failure to take procedural actions without a reasonable reason. In essence, this proposed amendment means that if the judge does not, without a reasonable reason, make a 100% decision on the envisaged framework criteria for the work of judges against that judge, a strict procedure will be initiated. The resolution ministry states that the current framework criteria for working judges for 2021 have proved that 63% of judges already reach 80% in September and then slow down their duties. It is apparent from the above that framework criteria should be amended, which are clearly not adequate and should not be introduced in order to initiate a strict procedure if the judge takes as much as 99% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria. The court's work is specific. We can't prescribe exactly how many judges will pass the verdict according to certain fixed quotas, because each case is different. Well, they're not potatoes that a kilo of potatoes is always a kilo of potatoes. If the judge respects the procedural deadlines in litigation and criminal proceedings, we cannot punish him unless he has met some prescribed standard of 100%. This could only happen if the cases we know in the judiciary weren't, or in the judiciary. The work of the courts should be more open to the public and show that the best-quality ones are rewarded, and disciplined by those who have no place in the system. The Social Democrats' Club welcomes the adoption of the Supreme Court's proposal on the need to present a judicial electoral body of DSV candidates from the judges' ranks and to prescribe the obligation to publish and résumé candidates on the website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In a situation where we don't have the Lobby Act, we can't let the judge and state attorney's election be won by the candidate who has a stronger party machine behind him, stronger players either financially, whether related relatively, godfatherly or friendly ties. We are in favour of reforming the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council and a transparent way of electing judges within the judiciary, and democratic control should be ensured by greater transparency in the work of judges and judicial councils by publication, systematicisation of judicial practice, building of internal control systems. We believe that the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorneys' Council and amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council did not meet these democratic criteria of transparency of choice of judges and state lawyers and therefore their adoption will not increase citizens' trust in the judiciary and the criterion of strengthening the independence of the State Council and the State Judicial Council. Therefore, the Social Democrats Club will not support these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116249	Thank you, too. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian Democratic Community club, and in its first reading, said it would support this law and in our first reading it was acceptable and nothing important had changed to change our mind. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Council and on the State Judicial Council. Both the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are extremely important bodies in our judicial system, because both of them are actually engaged in saying this by conditionality, means by making decisions on the appointment of judges, state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, their advancement, their strict responsibility. So they're also involved in the education of judges and state lawyers and these are extremely important things. What I think has entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was negotiations with the EU on obtaining the status of an EU member and, in fact, one of the more important issues that have been detected in this process is that our system of choice of judges and state lawyers should be further strengthened and deprived of any possibility of the influence of the policy and that is why these bodies and found in the Constitution are as defined as they are that they are actually protecting the independence and independence of the judiciary. In public, of course, there are various thesis, various definitions that continue to exist in the appointment of the government of clientelism, that there are still unobsessive criteria and such things, that it is not dominated by expertise but in fact by other things and I must say right away here from the first hand, since by this HS I am appointed as a member of the DSV that this, I deny such attitudes because I think that the DSV decisions it makes are objectively, impartially and truly based on expertise. Because you know, it's not just those 15, it's now 20 points that suggest talking to DSV and DOV, it's not dominant in making a decision on someone's appointment or advancement. Before that, there is, of course, a much greater share in the structure of points relating to those decisions taken by the judicial councils of certain courts about, for example, some candidates who have achieved in their work and these assessments are dominant, too, in relation to these judicial and state-level advisers who have completed the State School for Judges, who are actually making decisions here, and in fact, these are the guarantees of their expertise, and the conversation itself is, in fact, one such, an auxiliary criterion where they question the motive of these people, their ambitions come, but it is always the determination of expertise. Finally, all those decisions, both DSV and DOV, are subject to legal protection, so anyone who considers it not to be well-valued, can appear before the Constitutional Court and before the Constitutional Court ask that this decision be seen again whether the decision is in accordance with the law. Such proceedings before the Constitutional Court are very limited. So the candidates themselves who go through this procedure thus saying that these decisions were made, that they were made objectively. I must say that here, indeed, a long time ago when the system was, while we were not a member of the EU, there were a lot of objections to DSV decisions and to the council of lawyers because, it was known that the DSV members themselves were making progress in this, from a lower court to a higher level. Now, if it's true about membership with, in the DSV, it should be seen in any case individually, but here I have to say that for years, since this system has worked, we've known some incident decisions, it's been known to happen to the public to be this one, to open some kind of case where it's said why it's named this one, and it's not that, for the past few years, it's just not because, again, those evaluations that relate to expertise when it comes to progress, those judges who have made decisions that they haven't, which when they've been mourned, they're past that control in the higher courts, that those advisors who have finished the State School for judges and state lawyers, have good grades and these are dominant things. I have to say in these competitions where advisers appear, the largest number of appointments is from the order of counselors and state attorneys and judges, and these are people who have actually passed the procedure within the institutions that know the system and can say that the whole series of candidates who would really be great judges or state lawyers, and it's just very likely that many of them won't get their turn because at this point we have more or less than 1700 judges, judicial advisers somewhere around, same close to 700 or something, and we're simply the largest in the EU and in any case, we're big and by number of cases. As we discuss here, and many criticise this, the judiciary, a million and 200 thousand cases are being brought before the judiciary every year. Despite the great mistrust and the great perception of mistrust in the judicial system, so a million and 200 thousand cases come to our courts, so we could look at it in a different aspect than the one we're talking about. We think that these changes that bring about the amendments to the Law on State Judgment and Lawyerly Council in any case move the system forward, they are definitely, will improve the work because we think it's good to have this point threshold where this State Judicial and Lawyer Council gives no more than 15 than 20 points, it strengthens that role itself by DSV and DOV. Also, I think it's okay to comply with this provision that means representatives in the DSV may be, may be the judge of the High Court of Criminal Court who, as a new one, exists in our system. Also, the plan of planning personnel, there is a shortening deadline, which is fine, means that as quickly as possible responds to the needs within this one, the judiciary itself, and in particular it seems important to me to change that for the counselors themselves and... in the Court Corps and the state's attorney's office, to be given a separate assessment and about their work because it had appeared and actually appeared as a problem, they had grades related to the State School and then the first generation that went first on that program, there were the criteria of those interrogators being somewhat stricter, they got slightly less points, and those who came later, so they got more points, and they learned from those who got less points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think by this provision, we can kind of cancel these things. Also, I think that this provision is good, that candidates are not invited to talk, which even with the most points they can't really do anymore because on the hierarchical list they're related to the number of points that they're low that they can't get the appointment, I don't think there's any tragedy to do that because people simply don't have enough points and on that side I don't think there's any need to go to this second part. As for these certain statements that were here and the allegations that were here, I completely agree with the secretary of state who said that after the adoption of this law we cannot expect that honey and milk will flow because simply all these changes should be looked at in some context of change and other laws. Here in front of this assembly were the amendments to the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and all those things that are being brought here, I think they're improving the system. There is no doubt that the future in digitisation is strongly present in our judiciary, electronic communication between the parties. Tomorrow we're going to have the Law on Land Books where the same things are being proposed and all this is coming together, I would say to a better system in the judiciary, but as a society, we're going to have to do something, detect those places where these objects are being created. So the judiciary doesn't produce objects, these objects are created by various segments. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club supports both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116251	Thank you. Mr. Michel Jaksic Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116252	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Good afternoon, everyone. On behalf of the SDP Club, I must say, at the very beginning of my debate, that at the first reading, we were abstentions and that we have made it clear that we also expect through the debate in the first reading, but also through the discussion and preparation of the second reading to answer some legitimate questions that have arisen on both the Justice Committee and the consultation with the interested public, and also through certain expert organisations where certain questionnaires have been asked how to do better, differently, more transparent. I have left my word transparently for the very end of this introduction for the simple reason that whenever we talk about legislative changes concerning the judiciary and the situation in the judiciary we must always start from that starting point, not now entering a deep debate as much as guilty, but you have admitted that in these 30 years, the perception of the work of the Croatian judiciary has absolutely collapsed, and that simply year after year, and now not only of research agencies and media agencies in the Republic of Croatia but also of the European Commission when they are carrying out their barometer of trust in the judiciary that trust is either bad or going up, we have never moved from the bottom of the EU table when we are discussing perception, the confidence of the citizens of this country in the judicial system. There are many factors that have contributed to this, for many of these factors it is a false policy, I mean now a primary national policy which, or simply, has calmed down some things and has not wanted to clear them up, or in some other situations, unfortunately, has allowed some fugitives across the border, some outdated, some major collapse of some major investigations due to the shooting of measures, and there have never been any clear answers to why it is so and why it all happened, regardless of how long the media story has been created that the story will end exactly that way. In these situations, it may mean a lot that they have found themselves responsible, that the guilty have found themselves and that there has been a slight turn of that impression that there are still no equal and equal and that still in Croatia sometimes large fish or some who are at some point politically similar cannot just run away in front of justice. But this happened, over this spilled milk, we can't cry all the time, just perception is what it is, and it will take us a long time to change it for the better, and that we can say that Croatia is at least in the middle of trust, and then obviously the quality of the work of the judiciary itself in the EU. What I would like to point out, and even today, several times in these discussions, that there is a system overload, it is clear, the ministry's representatives also say, the Supreme Court's representatives led by the president himself, the presidents of all courts, and it is definitely that few countries in the EU have such inflation and such an increase in cases, and then, of course, this is reflected in unresolved cases. And what is one of the first initiatives that has come from us, by the President of the Supreme Court, is not yet in any form that could be translated into law, that it is very problematic and very important to finally clarify that the behaviour of the state bodies or the institutions of public authorities will be because we do not lie a lot, very much of the disputes we have in the courts have partly stemmed from some property relations and in most of these property relations are involved by entities whether public companies, whether public institutions. I can now say as mayor that sometimes it's really amazing why we go with people to court where we're literally dealing with a few squares of a country, some hedges, because we just don't have until the end worked out tools either through court practice or through some arbitration, which Mr. Dobrinić suggested to clear up a lot of things before the court itself because that court takes both time and money, especially if we know that many times in this situation some people who may not have a great material condition are found. This would make a lot of difference if we didn't have in any changes to the legal sets of the hearing both by the judges' association and by the people who work in the state's attorney's office, sometimes police and other investigative authorities can be involved to simply expect too much from them, that they are so crowded that they fail to solve everything. There are judges who don't do their job with honor. But we must admit that there are also a lot of people in the system and the police and the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary who do their work extremely honorablely, extremely correctly and extremely constructively. We need to help these people and facilitate the tools they have in their hands, not that we need to withdraw some resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from Brussels as soon as possible, and we are printing laws for which we have a lot of comments and a lot of questions. We all agree that the direction is good and that we want to go in this respect all of us, but always remains to hang exactly that "but" in the air. Why are we breaking over our knees? Why aren't we doing a step-by-step? Why aren't we doing a step-by-step? Why don't we finally do everything that we've all detected together that the problems in the Croatian judicial system are? If we are talking about the DSV and DOV Act here, we must also point out that there have been a lot of obstacles so far in the work of both DSV and DOV, that we have had several and large affairs as people have progressed or have been chosen, that many times this has, of course, won the scent of politics at the end of the day and therefore any change that will at least improve something is something we can say that, that's ok. But unfortunately, these amendments to the DSV and DOV Act still leave a lack of questionnaires and about the very future advances and about how this whole process will be implemented and what is mentioned and in consultation with the interested public, that if we go in this direction, we should take a few more steps to make this system publicly available where possible, to be transparent, and not to continue to revolve the perception that it is not so much work at the end of the day, so important neither profession, but it is important that at some point political distribution of the decks of cards, will it be in the State Judicial Council, is it in the State Judicial Council? It's something where we just didn't get answers this time. As we are now changing a bunch of these laws regarding the judiciary, and we all agree in the debates that when we talk especially about the State's Attorney's Office that we should also allow these people better working conditions and better work infrastructure and better pay for even having motives to work in this system. And we all agree on that, but we can't get to that level of debate yet to say yes, that's what we're going to do. And again, we have a lot of changes concerning the State's Attorney's Office, their rights, their obligations, some of the obstacles we put before them but we are constantly running away from that fundamental debate how to motivate the highest quality people in the Croatian judicial system to go to work at the State's Attorney's Office because it is an important branch. And we have a lot of quality people there, too, but with a lot of things we're going to be in a situation where there's going to be a continued trend that these very best-quality people are leaving the state's attorney's system. And what I would leave behind is the biggest opposition in the SDP club and, unfortunately, they have not responded to either the consultation with the interested public or the replica I have set up here today, and we are constantly running away from that answer as to why in the amendments to Article 51. The Law on the State Judicial Council, paragraph 2, amends the very structure of the sentence and states that for the Judge of the Municipal Commercial and Administrative Court, a person who has graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials and who is not acting in a judicial capacity may be appointed. So, the people of the State's Attorney's Office will definitely not be able to report to the judge's competition anymore. It's discriminatory. I don't think that's it. I'm not taking over the role of the Constitutional Court, but Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, everyone freely chooses to call and hire, and every job and duty is available to everyone under equal conditions. It's interesting about the state's attorney's office, it's about the courts, and we're quoting the Constitution on amendments to the law and we're asking if it's in line with that. The answer given is that the desire is to obtain the best quality, best or everything in the answers and to consult the interested public, as well as in today's debate. But then the question arises if we're looking for the highest quality, best why we're going to delete and eliminate some who are already working in that system of automation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116253	You, too. Mr. Zeljko Sačić, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116254	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected secretary of state with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Here again we have this text, the texts of the final laws, and regardless of the fruitful and constructive criticisms that we have from the opposition, waved at us from the opposition, believing that they would improve the overall system of functioning of our daily judicial practice. A large number, however, did not accept it, and yet you remained stubborn about certain provisions that cannot give us confidence that such a legal framework would indeed guarantee one of the objectives that you set out in these amendments in the future. For example, we will re-absorb this, that this threshold that speaks to honor, about credibility, about expertise, about the dignity of a judicial officer was that he was a state attorney or a judge, and if there are doubts that are sufficient to launch a criminal procedure for the crimes that you have even predicted here, for which a sentence of 5 years of imprisonment and more is intended for us this is quite disturbing. First of all, we agree that the presummation of innocence has its own, but the presummation of innocence is not wrong to interpret it is, in any case, the greatest achievement in a concrete criminal procedure between an individual and a judge, that is, according to the Criminal Procedure Act. ... In accordance with our legal theorists, our top scientists, criminal procedural legal thoughts and should not be interpreted so widely, especially in this case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, what, why would I be judged by someone who is, who is suspected of committing a crime or an offence that makes him in itself unworthy? It's not about traffic crimes, traffic crimes, and insecure categories, but there can be a whole dozen different criminal acts, criminal acts, and I don't want to see a judge who's got tails behind him, not to say anything else, and even less I want to be sued by a state attorney who's not clean, clear as a tear on all the elements. After all, our officers are rightfully punished and suspended for much, much less of this done stupendous acts, for example, not criminal, not criminal, or punitive acts, so it needs to be harmonised and it is quite appropriate or explained. Likewise, in art. 56.c of the DSV Act in this proposal you made, you say the wording that the Council's decision will explain the choice of a judge if it chose between several candidates who have the same number of points, but then, that's logical, is it, but then you go one step further and you say you'll give that same explanation if you choose a candidate, be careful now, which has a smaller number of points than that. I'd like you to explain it to me now, the whole structure, I used to be a high school professor, and I was very careful who, which and how these students must answer in these written knowledge checks and oral tests and the one who wrote the test, was clearly objectively that it had reached its peak, from what that professor had set up for me. If we have a peak of 150 points in writing, 20 years in writing and means I don't know, we have 170 points and now we have to choose a man, a hardworking, professional, smart, who scored 170 points than the one who scored 165 points, but because that's what the Council thinks he is. So what are we testing these people for, what are we harassing them for, so explain it, why? So these are these neural points, there are of course now, we don't go into details, but this is, and we're going to commend your initiative that it's a good thing that you brought it in, even though I say it, questionably, many of them won't sit well that you've introduced, for example, psychological testing. In fact, we'll be clapping for our own, because of the miles I come from, clapping that security checks should work and we believe and we hope and we must do everything we can to make sure there's no abuse, and there can be no such big abuse, actually no space for why the Council estimates what SOA brings to them on a table on a concrete candidate. She didn't say SOA if we think this candidate should be eliminated, this should be extended, we're restrained here but objectively delivered by facts, and the Council has a responsibility to say, listen, you're really not worthy, so you're a member of the Mason, you're a member, I don't know who, some of these twisted cults, or I don't know who or you're close to some anti-constitutional values that promote and we're not going to choose you, and that's good. It's okay. Therefore, we will remain restrained and this time in the hope and expectation that you will fix it if you do not fix anything. The property cards, of course, need not only this periodic renewal but also need to be checked, for that is the purpose of the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116255	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your honors and for your representatives. I often say that the end of the HDZ state will not come as soon as HDZ is removed from power, but when the formation of the institutions designed by HDZ is changed, justice institutions and bodies within the justice system have a special weight. The DSV and DOV, in view of their powers, roles, tasks, given the fundamental role of recruiting judicial officials, so state attorneys and judges, control of their work, and then monitoring their exit from the system is of real importance, it should be the spine, the spine of the judiciary. This way, DSV and DOV are not such a spine, but is a simple spaghetti with which, with such changes and additions, executive authority conducts and drags them in the way they fit. We've never had a well-designed system before, and I'm sorry that when the SDP had the chance, it didn't essentially change that, and now, under the conductor bat of the HDZ, that system is further collapsing. We put the last nails in a case of judicial independence the moment we introduced security checks on judges and state attorneys. I have long advocated that these two bodies should therefore be reorganised by the DOV and DSV in a way that changes the composition and membership first and foremost, that we remove from the existing 11 members of the same council two parliamentary representatives sitting in those bodies, as well as two university professors, and that those judges and those state lawyers who will act as members of this body, and perform their functions in full capacity professionally, and not in some quota of their basic duty, in order to actually carry out their tasks in a way to see results. The results aren't really there right now. Look at the number of tight procedures, look at the number of allegedly verified property cards, read for the start of the report, reports that the check of state attorneys' property cards will be established when the conditions are obtained only as soon as possible and easier to welcome Godot than to meet these conditions. So, in short, I'm going to explain and try to indicate the basic idea of amendments that I have submitted to these two laws. First of all, since it is not intended to change body structure through changes and additions, wherever candidate points are mentioned, whether they are state lawyers or judges, I suggest that parliamentary representatives and university professors do not participate in the score. Here's with all due respect to those MPs who have some legal knowledge, like that, I don't think these others really should be involved in that content of checking how the law imagined it. Namely, if we don't want our indictments to fall into court because we don't need to forget the numerous charges where the naked eye from the plane was visible that the man was guilty, let's imagine some serious corruptive crime has fallen for procedural reasons because the indictment wasn't drawn up properly, so the public is angry because we have a criminal on the loose because we have alienated funds from the state budget that will never be returned and we have spent state resources on a process that has been going on for a long time, and everything has fallen because the indictment wasn't put together properly. To draw up an indictment act is one of the biggest challenges for any lawyer, however much he is. And what are we doing? What kind of state is that, I ask you, and where does that lead? And with what right do we even expect the results of the state's attorneys if in this recruitment system we come up with that the indictment act, here's a legal action which, in the process of verifying legal knowledge by the council in the tendering calls for recruiting new state attorneys, designed the quality of this act to be checked here in a specific case are Hasanbegovic and Armina Lekai Prljaskaj? I mean, it's hard for me to choose words and refrain from saying something vulgar, something offensive, something simple, but I think it's something vulgar, offensive, and it can simply be said by any citizen if and how many of them there are who are listening to this debate right now, but it's our fact state, that's what doesn't change, even when HDZ loses elections and some other option comes to power. So I call on absolutely everyone who thinks with their own head and who wants Croatia well, who wants us to move one step forward, to take the first next step on these issues into account, to start changing the course of institutions. These are not easy tasks, I understand that we also need greater public democratic control of both the judges of the state's attorneys and the supervision of the work of those authorities who control them, so concrete supervision of the work of the DSV and the DOV. But this can be achieved in other ways, for example, by making sure that we have a mandatory public recording, the public in those interviews and conversations with the candidates, not optionally, can't be achieved if they are willing but mandatory so as to convince the public why a candidate got 10, 15 or 20 points and why DOV or DSV in that score list is now having that 15-point tolerance threshold between the best and the one he has chosen to see what these reasons are that other anti-candidians can convince themselves that someone who deserves the advantage, here is one small level. Furthermore, security checks. I was against their introduction, I think it's heavy abuse and manipulation and killing the independence of the judiciary because security checks are dictated by the executive authority and will always abuse them for the wrong purposes and the wrong methods. But now that I have the law as it is, then I suggest that it be mandatory to introduce that the safety checks are available to candidates or that information can be obtained that the security check has identified and the reasons why there is a decision to make security obstacles to the appointment exist. As it is now imagined the council will say there is a security obstacle. What, what, what does it come from? Nobody knows, doesn't know the candidate, doesn't know the candidate. Do you know what this means in practice? In a justice system that is networked with family and other relationships and which is lobbying for different candidates. And I will return to what the proposing representative said when I warned that Hasanbegovic could not check whether a candidate has drawn up a good indictment or a good proposal for an investigative prison. He said, but his role there is negligible, it's irrelevant because we have seven other professionals. So why is Hasanbegovic sitting there in the first place asking you? He sits and sits second because I can lobby for a candidate, because as council members, they say a security obstacle, a security obstacle. So if we don't allow the candidates to access the data, how some information about them has been collected at all, which compromises them, we've actually given the authorities' tools in the judiciary to use security checks to eliminate quality competition compared to the one for which someone else lobbys. And lastly, instead of security checks, we needed to strengthen the property card verification system. Unfortunately, neither when it comes to officials nor when it comes to these judicial judges or state lawyers, the system of property cards in our system is at all understood as a concept. Although property cards are primarily a means of maintaining integrity, increasing public confidence that by seeing someone's property card can get an impression of this person's intensity is to control the beginning and end, the urgency is to see if someone has used a public function for wealth that does not result from legitimate incomes. So, the point of checking the property cards isn't in that administrative check that you listed all the properties that the land books say you have, but it's the point of checking what you paid that property with. Such a system, such a model does not exist in Croatia yet. Not for us politicians, not for the judges, not for the state's attorneys. What the IRS is doing is controversial and insufficient and does not represent an entirely imagined system. The amendments that I have proposed at least partially correct this lack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116257	You, too. Mrs. Sandra Bencic, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116258	I thank the chairman. So for starters, I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading. So, I think the starting point of the overall reform should be this, which is that of these 27 countries, on the issue of citizens' trust in the independence of their judiciary, Croatia is just the last. So it's just the last 27. It is not only that we are the last to trust citizens in the independence of our courts, the problem is that this mistrust has grown from 60 to almost 80% of citizens who believe that their judiciary is not independent in the past few years. And if the aim of the reform was to resolve at least one of the three reasons why citizens feel that the judiciary is not independent, and one of those three reasons is exactly the environment of law, so the legislative framework within which judges and state lawyers act then the proposals that are in these two laws that we are discussing today should have gone in the far opposite direction. That's what my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about, and I'll do it again. So if you have a situation that 80% of citizens do not trust you in the independence of judges because of political pressure, because of the pressure of stakeholders and because the legislative framework within which they operate and the way they choose is not good, then how do we increase these provisions to 20% of the impact of the interview. So, some assessment of members of the State Judiciary Council about what kind of candidate he is. So we increase the impact of an interview that is actually an assessment and cannot be fully objectively measured. But when you can't measure and increase that percentage objectively, then you didn't at least prescribe mandatory transparency or video transmission and the availability of these interviews so that the public could see it. This also applies, for example, to procedures, strict procedures, so before the State Judiciary Council. The other thing that we have in this, which is especially me, is that by this law, we prescribe that he is strictly responsible if he refuses the SOA's security clearance. So, by law of the courts, you've prescribed that every five years judges go for a security check. By this law you prescribe that they must not be denied, they must deny consent to that verification. So if the shorts are punished. Well, that's what I think it is, so you understand what it is, so it's courting. And I'm going to show you another graph now, and that's a graph showing which of the countries has regular repeated security checks for their judges throughout Europe. So again 27 countries, just the Republic of Croatia. So, only Croatia has repeated security checks for its judges. Some countries, most countries have no security clearance at all for judges, some countries have checks that work on an explicit request and that when a candidate for a judge, the judge is first elected to the judge, but later on, of course not. For example, Hungary has this, that the judge passes a security check when accessing certain classified documents he has in the case, okay, but only our judges throughout the EU pass every 5 years security checks by SOA. And now let's do a little bit of what it looks like. So, the Security Intelligence Agency whose director is elected by who, is elected by most of the ruling. So we have the director of SOA, we have employees of SOA who are doing a background check, and they find him a certain obstacle. Do they have to explain that obstacle, do they have to substrate to you all the evidence that they have collected and on what grounds they have concluded that there is an obstacle, what kind of explanation SOA writes? I'll tell you what kind of reasonings are sent to the administrative court and that the court has already said several times that they have to write arguments, so they either don't write or write in two sentences, but it's not just that. Tell me how likely it is that some judge will not give in to the pressure if he knows that because of what he did or did not do next time he will not pass the security check, that it will act on the judges the fact that no one has told them, but that they know that there is this possibility, how it works on the judge, and that there is a reason that only Croatia of all EU member states has decided every 5 years. Control your judges and what, what is there, what did the Association of Croatian Judges say? On the contrary, they asked the European Judges' Association to draw up an opinion. The association, the European Association of Judges, believes that the security verification of all judges in time intervals is not in line with international nor with European standards, that such a measure is not necessary for national security, and that such measures are, in full contrast with the principle of guaranteed continuity of the judicial duty, which is a key element of the independence of the judicial authority, thus the European Association of Judges says. The Venice Commission also said that, in their opinion, they pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia, existing legislation already foresees a wide range of mechanisms for ensuring the integrity of judges, so that we have property cards, that we have assessments of the president of courts, that we have a strict and criminal procedure and that they are not convinced of the necessity to introduce an additional new mechanism such as a security check for all judges every 5 years. They also consider the questionable reasons for the reform because according to the Ministry of Justice a high level of perception of corruption in the judiciary, some individual cases of misbehaving of judges are the reason for the introduction of security checks and are not certain that these reasons can justify such a far-reaching measure, so the Venice Commission tells you that this is a far-reaching measure such as the periodic security check of all judges by the security services. So Minister Malenica asked the Venice Commission for that opinion, but for some reason, Andrej Plenkovic did not allow him to wait for that opinion and on the basis of it also made the Law on Courts and these two laws already hurried him to push it out because what, the judge should have been even more cooperative and that's what we get additional to this law because now not only will he go for checks every 5 years. but if they accidentally refuse it, then they will be punished, you understand what it is, what it is a feedback. And in all of this we have the SOA that I was talking about this morning, so here's who's going to check our judges, the SOA whose head of the SOA chief's office has millions of real estate businesses with the owner of the PPD, with the former SOA director and some other politicians, for example, from the Homeland Movement. And here are the people who are head of the agency who are going to check our judges. So, the head of SOA's office has an apartment in Zagreb worth money none of you will, I mean none of you, at least I hope they're honest, you won't even see if you live out of pay. They're people who'll check every five years. Our judge, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116259	Thank you, too. The gallery was awarded students and students and their mentors and mentors in the projects "Bio security and bioprotection". There's a lot more of them than we are down here, you can get up because you deserve it, let's give them a round of applause... Thank you for coming here today and for being with us, thank you, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, who will have her individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116260	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. How in well-organised functional societies where there is both an effective and truly independent judiciary to which the public is trusted by judges, above all by the internal control system. Each branch should in some ways establish its criteria of dignity, professionalism, standards that some officials expect. For example, ethical codes serve, and in our legal system there are ethical codes for judicial officials, there are also bodies that implement them, what does not exist, there is no built culture of integrity within the judiciary itself. The whole system is actually set upside down starting with the relationship between the executive and the judiciary as such. If we look at it, and even in this law there's something talking about it, one of my amendments solves that question, which the Minister of Justice does in relation to judges and state lawyers. In our system, the Minister of Justice intervenes in a lot of things, delivers a lot of regulations, prescribes a lot of methodologies, interferes in the work of every single judge or state attorney, and the relationship should be different. The Minister of Justice, as part of the executive authority, should only be in charge of the judge and state attorneys asking the gentlemen dearly how many resources, how many finances, how many technical conditions, to whom the roof leaks, who has an old computer, if there are enough staff, what are the salaries of the notaries and other people working in the system. It's the role of the executive and justice minister. That and nothing else. And possibly, on the basis of information and knowledge, it draws up proposals for future laws. But not to control, not to control. And we have exactly the opposite. So here, too, we have a methodology for the evaluation of judicial advisors and state's attorneys to be prescribed by the Resort Ministry, which is what needs to be removed. The moment it moves away, when the judges are sent a message that they themselves are managing quality within the judiciary they will also hesitate to resolve these ethical dilemmas, and they are terribly important. We need to send a message to our judges and state lawyers that the system protects them from the moment they enter to the moment they leave the system and give them the opportunity to trust the public. And this will be achieved in a way where they themselves, through their decisions, ethical decisions, strict procedures and others, say which behaviour is not tolerated for one state attorney or for one judge within the branch. So, the brand, judges and state lawyers have to start building more standards inside themselves and insist on them. And for anyone who does not find himself or anyone who finds himself in an inappropriate situation and tells one another among us is no longer a place. That's the way. What has been tried or planned to do with these amendments to the law is the diametrically opposite path that will further weaken citizens' trust, and make judges more corrupt and vulnerable to these fine ethical standards because imagine instead of building ethics so that the ethics is removed from the system if you are not up to it, this law introduces the possibility that someone who has committed a stupendous offense that has been imposed on him by sanctions away from duty or discharge from duty, so man has done something to be expelled from the system, and these amendments and additions to the laws are said, and we will give him a conditional conviction, conditional on, a conditional conviction. Which means we're going to give him a trial period, so if for the next 2-3 years or as long as he doesn't repeat such a crime, then we're going to pretend like nothing happened. So it's breaking standards inside the judiciary to the bottom level. And that bottom, which fortunately even the Croatian judiciary has not fallen yet, but it will fall under the conductor's baton of HDZ. For the smallest offense, standards should be such that such a person is not welcome, tossing out upside down and shut the door forever, and not to be explicitly allowed to place those with strict convictions and can continue to be a place in such a judiciary. Such a judiciary only suits HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116261	Mrs. Katarina Nemet, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116262	Thank you. Dear colleagues of these amendments and the law may mean that the DVS can impose a strict measure of non-compliance with the norm that I have talked about before and what you are all talking about not agreeing to carry out the judge's security check, so I will only take the opportunity to read what the commission of Venice recommended to our government on this matter. The Commission is concerned about the risk of such a measure and recommends that Croatian authorities reconsider their approach to the regulation of periodic security checks on all judges and develop an alternative strategy for ensuring the integrity of judges and on the basis of other existing mechanisms. Please comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116263	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116264	Thank you. The alternative strategy should be to establish a real system for checking property cards and to increase discipline in tighter procedures, which means more of these procedures, and also to increase the number of those ethical and educational measures. Security checks on the first time need to be removed from the system, but here as long as they exist with the amendment, I suggest that the decision on the existence of security barriers must be reasoned but the candidate must also be given the opportunity to have insight into the documentation and evidence on the basis of which such a decision has been taken and against that decision, so against the decision on the existence of security obstacles must be allowed to the possibility of a administrative dispute. So there must be control over what the SOA did. Otherwise, we simply made the judges easy to blackmail with information that only the executive authority has.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116265	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116266	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Dalia, I don't know, I just don't have to ask you directly, I don't know why you're against these security checks so much. Why are you against it? And you and Mrs. Bencic... Why are they afraid of that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally went through a couple of these security checks while I was in the defense system and nothing happened to me. We've also been filling out the property card for years now, and we're also doing just fine. I don't see why. They say no country has that in the EU. Well, no country in the EU has passed the Homeland War. Each country has its specifics, has the freedom and the right to sort out its own relationships in some way. So I don't see why you're so afraid of it. The good part of the people in the judiciary are people who have worked and in that still former state, etc. And why now someone's afraid of that security check like it's this thing right now, I don't see here, you can explain a little why.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116267	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116268	: Between checking property cards and security checks as two different tools is the sky and country difference. Security checks undermine the system of judicial independence. Namely, property cards except for the fact that they're public in themselves have one procedure that can be controlled. The correctness of the procedure can be controlled whether it has been legally implemented and the quality of each individual evidence of a security check can also be controlled. So now we have proceedings even in front of the Constitutional Court where people proved it was Kafkin's trial. I do not want a blackmailing judge by the executive authority of Andrej Plenkovic, nor the president of the state, because they are the ones who manage security services. One judge can be a questionable example of what's right here being gay. He didn't do anything illegal about it. It won't make his decisions less quality or corrupt, but it doesn't want to be made public. Maybe his mom's Catholic and he's against it, and with that kind of information, SOA can blackmail him. That's what this is about. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116269	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116270	A little bit off this topic, but you've encouraged me to discuss security checks and I can understand your tendency and purpose. But my question to you is, and since you come from this system and you know very much how it works, you have a lot of experience why on the other hand we have now a debate that was initiated by the President of the Supreme Court Mr. Dobrinić, where judges or representatives of the judiciary run away from discussing who, when and how much more they do outside of their regular work from arbitration to the development of various lectures, workshops and that I do not now list all the opportunities we have to hear and read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116271	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116272	I thank you for this truly quality question. I fully support the direction that Radovan Dobronic has taken. The questions he has asked all judges should be a standard in itself that implies that judges will answer these questions and that the answers to these questions will be available to the whole public. Part of the judges object, because they're part of the skeletal structures. I even believe that one part of them, the moment he got all those arbitration, the extra jobs, the lectures, didn't even think he was doing anything wrong. But it's that sneaky, quiet, underground system with which HDZ buys its power, its branches of power. He has his own ways of buying chips, he has his own ways of buying ministers, he has ways of buying candidates in the mayoral elections, but he also has ways of buying judges. One of these ways is with additional luxuriant jobs. They are not in themselves corrupt, but fit to be where it is warm, where it's shared. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116273	Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I believe that our judiciary is actually a patient in one terminal phase of treatment and that these two final proposals of the law are actually pure apaurin or andol in that treatment except for strengthening the ethical system in the judiciary. What do you think would be drugs for the rapid recovery of our judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116275	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116276	Thank you. I don't think these laws are apaurin or any medicine. I think they're toxin, I think they're radioactive. To that extent, I think that this damages the justice system, and the right path would be to change its structure, to change the structure of the bodies in charge of the internal control of that judiciary. By doing so, I am referring to the composition of the State Judicial Council and to the composition of the State Attorney's Council, which should remove parliamentary representatives, university professors, and oblige members to work at full capacity, to come to work in the morning, to work all day on property card checks and to seek someone's disciplinary responsibility. So, to check the system on the inside and devote their full work engagement, not to work at 20, 30, I don't know how much of their other professional duties. Here's the beginning, zero point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116277	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116278	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, and in the tail itself in the apartment, I said the position of the State Attorney's Council and the Fate Council should be the cornerstone of the equality of all in the judiciary, so that when I look at what I said was essentially the biggest mistrust of the people in the Republic of Croatia, 95% is the judiciary, meaning what affects economic development, emigration, demographic politics, everything that is worst. And the judiciary has mirrored democracy, in fact justice, although justice in Croatia is a distant word. I'd just like to mention a few important things here. I don't get it. I mentioned it myself, and my colleague Sacic talked about it saying that those who are being prosecuted up to five years for crimes of crime or crimes up to five years can suspect it, and in law enforcement, we can be persecuted by the State's Attorney's office. So that part doesn't make sense to me. That's not that part of equality. It's the same thing that we say that all these ministers who were that could have been up to five years either, or I don't know any of us, that he shouldn't have been, that he was supposed to stay here and do his job. I would just point out that speaking about the judgments of experience with people with whom I speak uniform court practice is one of the major problems, I don't know how much the council can affect the fact that they are controlled in essence, that they are equal judgments in one court or another but we have the same cases, and we have different judgments and then even in the appeal deadlines in the higher cases it stays that way. And that's very important. Unfortunately, our judiciary sees what happened around Zdravko Mamić that the man who ran into another country essentially became a justice tailor, in fact, he's basically sending a message to the judiciary, I don't know how much state's attorney, the DSV can act on it, but I don't understand that in the Republic of Croatia after 30 years. We still have resistance to, not resistance, but we have the influence of policy on attorneys. Here I can say that it's unclear to me today what the Prime Minister said, but sooner or later we'll be back in the previous Saucha case, it seems to me that even the press was held together by a former state attorney with the prime minister in the government or some other case, I can't sit down, something was, I know that he was together then, and in this last case I don't even know the phone, he didn't call, I think I know that we should cooperate, but the question is whether this cooperation came in a way to say who to arrest, in which way, which way, and that's the perception of people in the Republic, is obvious that this is how this works. I would say here once again that the judiciary is in a very difficult, very difficult situation, so we can look at these referendum initiatives, although this is about the constitutional court, that the messages that are on their own, I don't know, we now see changes to the constitution, are also sent a message that we need to predetermin what can be predetermined in the referendum, the tribunal on this is decided by Branko Bačić, Vladimir Sheks, together with his godmother, I don't understand what this is all about, instead of talking about today as a referendum on what is positive, whether it's okay with it or not, we're questioning all the processes of democratic, and we're talking about democracy, here is clearly inequality. I remember coming here and the President of the Supreme Court of the former Djuro Sesa, we know everything that happened together, we know that just at this point people don't trust the judiciary, not at this point, but constantly, how to bring it back, which is now a key question, from unequal, unequal practice to clientelism, corruption within the judiciary, within the DORH, these are the things to be answered by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116279	Are you done, is that a break or are you done? It's over, it's over, it's over, it's over. [[Clip incursion: Done]] Thank you, thank you for warning me, I haven't seen it. Mr. Zekanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116280	Dear colleague Bulj, here I want to hear your comment like this from a little time-out on the affair of former chief state attorney Drazen Jelenić, who left the place because of public pressure because he was a masseuse, allegedly a masseuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116281	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116282	And apparently the free builders of this without a mystium agree the judiciary, in this case the state's attorney's office. It's an amazing thing that such people can go to the highest function in one former body such as the state's attorneyship, obviously the masseary is deeply subdued in all structures and judicial and political and parapolitical, media and all structures, so I don't know at all how this explains that one elite, one group of people working on the basis of hierarchy, I don't know why I haven't yet gotten so far into these mass freedoms of masonry things, although I do know how to deal with masonry and agree well with blocks, but in that part, as they agree structures in the state's attorneyship, I don't know that no one has been responsible for it until today, but it seems to me that he stayed working in the state's attorney's office, but I guess the triba as one free builder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116283	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, it's your turn now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116284	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about DOV, the DSV. I'm already in two replicas actually saying what I was thinking, but now I'm going to say a little bit more in detail even though the secretary of state said that this law really shouldn't define it, but it's not possibly burning today because it's extremely connected. If we remember about three years ago. The affair of all affairs in Croatia was a membership, reportedly Mr. Drazen Jelenić's membership in the Masonic settlement, today in HS, although we are talking about the state's attorney's office did not speak. It was a topic, I think, three weeks was a top topic in the Croatian political space, in public space. And now what is crucial, first of all, I will not say that it is my fault that Drazen Jelenić is no longer in that place, but I am glad, but what man has done is whether a man is a member of an organization and where it writes that he must not actually be a member of that organization, or which we have put on the list of any unwanted, unsuspecting organizations at all. That's pretty interesting. I would say wrongly here, but I would be brave enough to write it down somewhere, meaning in some law, maybe the law on the state's attorney's office that exactly organizations, and maybe even explicitly have to be, be on that blacklist or in which organizations can't be the attorney general. And as for membership, and I'm just going to pull one small parallel tied to us MPs, which, by that, is subject to and, subject to the main state attorney, it's a property card. There is a small section in the property card that says membership, membership, so let's say that we are members of the not-knowing Littlefooted Club, the Protection Society here I am personally the Sibenik Heritage Juraj Dalmatinac, the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers Bishop Srecko Badurina, but I did not put one important thing, I am a member of the same very important organization, and it is called the Catholic Church, and I became a full member of my own crisis that I have already brought to the attention of a recently mature fellow consciously. I think that we should introduce a practice that both membership in this organization and similar organisations to put in the property card or that in some way in the questionnaires in the competition that will be called tomorrow for the main state attorney, the question is whether you are a member of an organization and the one in the fus note explained, so don't forget membership in some church organizations, religious and some of these organisations that I don't know what category you'd put in, dark or half-dark organizations. Okay. That would be so much about that subject, just as much as I'd like it to be that I think fellow Petrov talked like this with a lot of grammar, but okay, he likes a little drama, I'll say a quieter tone. It would be good if tomorrow's assessment of state attorneys were as objective as possible and that the interview that I think is good to see whether someone is normal or not, when it's too obvious to be as much as possible to be the main criterion and not to be determined, so let's say that I put it in such an elimination is something missing in your head or not missing, and then everything else does a lot of the objective type tasks that the evaluation is objective and not subjective. Here's so much on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116285	Mr. Arsen Bauk replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116286	You mentioned the former chief of state lawyer Jelenić correctly, you asked your colleague, Bulj, and I think you actually asked a very, very good question. I'll try to make my point. Mr Jelenic, the chief state attorney, was elected by the parliament, so the political body in a public procedure and a public debate, and I believe that the fact that he kept his mouth shut in the debate in that organisation is exclusive, that he failed the trust of those who chose him is why he was removed. However, should he remain as a state's attorney, it is already a question of doubt, and if the law is not prescribed and forbidden, then he should remain. And if you followed the Supreme Court several times returned that decision to the DOV, so that's one thing to prescribe, is it really can be whether religious commitment is an obstacle, sexual commitment is an obstacle, which is what it is Croatian, Catholic and state attorney by these criteria... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116287	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116288	Dear colleague Bauk, thank you for the replica. I wouldn't go as far as you did, I'd stay only on this part that I said although there are some not on my right conservative side but on your side that some more things are being put, but okay wouldn't talk about it. But okay, according to your explanation, he's not his crime is not what he was a member of the masseuse but what he denied that information was he? If such a political responsibility is due to the denial of key information should be borne, although I cannot help but suspect that he has been removed, not because of the failure of information, but because he is a member of the association. He was elected, but now he's not in that place anymore, so here we go, now what was about that by that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116289	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk has his own debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116290	If I were just a little bit over the line, would he have been chosen if he'd said so? Maybe he would, maybe he wouldn't. As far as these legal proposals are concerned, I will stick to the DSV Act, but it can be applied analoguely to the DOV. First of all, it was strange to me that when I was elected a member of the DSV that I had to take an oath, and I was elected a parliamentary representative, and I had already taken an oath before the president of the assembly, and now I had to take it before the president of the Supreme Court elected by the assembly. So someone who basically submits a report to me should have sworn in the same text as the oath I took to be a parliamentary representative at all, let's just say why, that doesn't make any sense. Secondly, I believe that DSV sessions should be held in HS, so logistic support is provided by the government in the Ministry of Justice, and meetings should be more exposed to the public and should be held in one of the HS halls, so that they would have a kind of additional influence or public control over DSV sessions. I don't see the meaning of a secret or non-public vote at DSV sessions. First of all, those judges who want to run for a new mandate in the DSV can best describe how they voted, what criteria they had for who they voted for, which is secret, how they would then go to the next DSV elections if they couldn't talk about what they were doing, how they did, what attitudes they represented, what criteria they preferred. So, the vote is not public, when it says unpublic it means you have a ballot on which your name is written, you circle or do not circle, hand over the ballot and it is no longer published. And now I would like to actually see whether the more elected judges I voted for or voted for by Bosnjakovic would be an interesting statistical one, because if 50 judges were elected, 40 of whom were voted by Bosnjakovic, and 10 for whom I voted and let's say the 20 we voted for together, then something could be concluded and vice versa. Perhaps it was really more elected judges that I voted for than he or none of us voted for, then it would mean that the judges are independent, in fact opposed to the political caste in Croatia or vice versa, which he and I voted for, and not half of the judges. This is an interesting analysis that would actually show the human resources of judges who are in DSV and those who are not judges. And then the question of grades, I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading, whether I trust the review committee of a judicial school or myself, is a very big dilemma. So you see someone with great grades on you leaving an impression that hmm wouldn't let me run the firm if I were the owner. And vice versa, you see someone who has fewer grades, but rules matter. And now there's some balance that's okay. I guess, and that would again be a good analysis of how many times DSV skipped someone with a smaller number of points is that 90%, and then that rule that needs intervention or that's 10%, gave an exception that confirms that the rule exists, to choose those with better grades, but in some cases, in that small number of DSV has the right to do otherwise. That's what the law gave him, and that's the Constitution. And how to actually explain the collective body's decision. So, it should explain why Bauk, Bosnjakovic, Prof. Winkovic or someone else voted for someone, not someone else. How will the president explain it? Maybe he voted, didn't vote for the one who was elected, and he should sign the argument that he was the best. It's the same to me, it also seems to me to be so slightly illogically written in law. So the power of the DSV came from the law that told him you could do it. A collective, secret or non-public vote shall be decided by a number of members. Then how can you explain the decision made by the 6-5, 6 voted, so 6 voted for Peru, and 5 voted for Mata and because more votes for Peru were elected. That's one thing. So, the reasoning of the decisions, therefore, I believe that there is a little too much going on here in formalising a body that has constitutional and legal authority to do something. It is better to, that this authority constitutionally limit itself, that there are no 20 points than 10 points or that simple robots do so, so whoever has the most points, the commission you are, you are simply the law and you are the one who comes here as a postman is, just like for the election of the Supreme Court president. You have terms. You have no terms. We send them as mailmen. And one genius in the law, Mr. Secretary of State, please turn the official who turned 30,000 kunas into 3,980 and not 4,000 euros in Article 28, additionally reward for precision and mathematically such mathematical this accuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116291	Mr. Zekanovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116292	My dear colleague, if it had been circled, then they'd be grizzly about why they'd raised the price of eating, but okay, that's always the way it is. I'll agree with you about most of your debate, it would be really cool if the DSV met in the Croatian Parliament, it would be really great to have a public vote, here I have to admit that I didn't even know it was being voted in secret until a few minutes ago. But here's a question for you, would Drazen Jelinić have been elected to the Croatian Parliament if it had been known at the time that he was a member of a Masonic Lodge and how would your club vote on this issue? I'd vote against it clearly right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116293	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116294	I don't think the government would propose it at all would be exposed to too much pressure from the public if the Mason were to propose to the state's attorney. So, it would not be at all my assessment that there would be no vote in the Croatian Parliament at all because the government would not allow itself by its political decision to propose a meeting of someone who has publicly declared himself to be a member of a masseuse without at least one long-standing public debate about what is a Masonic box. And how are you going to have a public discussion about a secret organization? It's the same interesting thing. So it makes sense to me what happened. And about whether anyone can be a judicial official, judge, if he is a member of a legally registered organisation that is one debate that enters into the right of that freedom of association in human rights and should legislate and assess the constitutionality of that law so that it could not ultimately be that line that cannot be crossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116295	Thank you. Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116296	Thank you. When we talk about changes and additions of DSV from materials that have come to us about proposals, remarks and opinions of the day alone, the proposal for amending the law has resulted in a large number of objections coming from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. They oppose the renewal of security checks, they oppose norms, they oppose a number of other things that are proposed in this law. So I'm asking you why, at least on this point, we didn't have a consensus on making these changes to the law if we're talking about the trio of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116297	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116298	I take that as a union statement, here. So, that should be considered, but it's not the Holy Scriptures because no one is the judge in their affairs the best, so neither is the Supreme Court judge with all the respect I have for them. And in that sense, some things are okay, some things I disagree with but I wouldn't take as the final and lasting truth. And that's it. So, of course, those to whom the law applies as well as others can participate, but as we say about the rights of parliamentary representatives, the public has one opinion, and the parliamentary representatives of the other, as about the rights of farmers, farmers have one opinion, and the government has one opinion, as we do about the rights of the islanders, we have one opinion, and the rest of Croatia, as well as in the rights of judges, the judges can have one opinion, and all of us second opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116299	And the rest of the island, one island has another opinion from another island. Mr. Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116300	All islanders or just brothers? You have made a lot of reference to the work and functioning of the State Judicial Council with several of your findings which could be done differently to make it more transparent and open to the public and to probably contribute to the very perception of the work itself and the State Judiciary Council and perceptions of how it is progressed, and then how it is judged to make those decisions. What do you think prevents us from meeting the DSV, that the sessions are still open in a certain way, and that it is known that whoever votes at these sessions, since let's say in the assembly for any decision that she made can come to that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116301	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116302	I'd say comedity first because it's easier for me for the DSV to sit in the assembly because my DSV session would come, hold a debate and go back, and when it's in the Justice Department, it's a little harder for me. It's probably the same for the others. Then somehow journalists can come to the DSV session, but no, there's not much enthusiasm when 4 cameras and 5 journalists are announced, okay, a slightly bigger hall, etc., but I think that a lot of this would demystify the work of the DSV. So I can't remember any decisions in this DSV session that would deserve a scandalous label, there may be bad doubts, but scandalous ones are gone, for last term I'm not sure, it's now a matter of this, a matter of impression and I would really like the public to be better acquainted with the work of DSV primarily because I would be better acquainted with my work, I have the best possible opinion about my work and I would like the public to be better acquainted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116303	Okay. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116304	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the esteemed representative, alone as you said about various knowledge, here I would like to ask you something as former minister, former minister of the administration, certainly that you would like to hear the frequent arrangements of you and the Prime Minister then Milanovic, if it could be so publicly, it would be very interesting about the various situations you've been talking about, but one of the important things about Cyrillic plates and initiatives, is it your or former Prime Minister Milanovic, who gave this initiative in the mornings like when we went to action in the Homeland War, when you set those records up, was it your initiative or our president's then here I believe I personally believe it would be of interest to the general public, and now that you can be honest as a national representative or that party silence is that I don't mind you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116305	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116306	Thank you. Comrade Deur, we are going to remove the immunity of one parliamentary representative who was encouraged by the abuse, who allegedly encouraged members of the executive authority to abuse the position, and I believe that all those who asked me not to lay down Cyrillic plates under the law also encouraged me to abuse the position so that it would, in fact, be the same legal qualification for, as for a fellow Milosevic towards Mrs. Deur. Mandac. And as far as this is concerned, I don't run away from my merits, but the President of the Republic has also encouraged me to enforce, enforce the law. The law was usually the first to pass the MUP because they probably had a shift, the board's office was set up at 11 a.m. in broad daylight and today stands there just probably covered with this, and what's best turns out to be the same in the state's attorney's office and the court board was covered for a while, so it didn't know where the court was and where the state's attorney was, random state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116307	Thank you, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116308	And her, colleague Bauk, I personally highly respect and appreciate you and I must apologize in advance for asking you this question, so it is not directed against you, but against the system that you are part of, or against, the structure of the DSV, which I claim is responsible for at present there is no conditions for doing that work and the tasks that have been assigned to him, and the question is, there are 1710 judges, the DSV should check their cards, you are a member of the DSV, please describe what a specific check of one property card, one judge, and let alone how it looked to check those property cards since you are a member of the DSV, forgive Arsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116309	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116310	Thank you. You know that one, she needs to be convicted and the other one saved. You have just demonstrated how this should be applied, thanks to colleague Oreskovic. So, first of all, in the light of this bill, you will see among the remarks that have not been accepted that it is not accepted that this is done by the Commission for the conflict of interest. It was in the standards of the Ministry of Administration and it said who it was, so it would say at the request of Agent Arsen Bauk, it was the judiciary when you joined, but it would be good for you to write in the second reading of the objections in the assembly that were not accepted and who suggested them because when they came from the section of who was in the Ministry of Administration, it is written from this ministry. So, my suggestion was that this was done by a conflict of interest committee because I as a member of the DSV in these years and something as far as I'm a member, if I've calculated this correctly, I haven't once called, asked, asked, or participated in any check of any property card, or received any request from anyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116311	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116312	Here I am giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure since the MP said he didn't pass any property card checks because when I picked up the bat, I thought he wouldn't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116313	Thank you very much, thank you very much, don't explain why you're giving up, you gave up, well, thank you. Sir, we're going to final examinations, Mr. Katicic, in front of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116314	Honored chairman, colleague, secretary of state, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's where we held a certain debate on the final proposal of the DSV Act and the DOV Act. It is known that we have done a united debate which I think is very good and that these two, two legislative proposals are quite similar both in the legal and factual substrate, and I think when you do a little better analyze and one and other legislative proposals are seen certain solutions that match both the fact that both the applicant and the nomenclature and the solutions that happen afterwards. Of course, introductively listening to and arguing, of course, that these two legislative proposals challenge certain recommendations and a number of debates in society, especially in judicial circles. The Republic of Croatia has defined one way of selecting judges and state lawyers who also know other Western European countries, which means that it has formed an independent body consisting of various stakeholders and actors in a social situation, or not only of lawyers, judges and professions but also of other lines, other people who participate in the composition of an entire judicial or state apparatus. Of course, the Western European system finds and finds and finds and some other solutions, we stick to this and I think we're going in that direction which, at the end of this change and the additions are now drawing out. Like any law, it evaluates or changes the social climate, social relations change, and hence certain amendments and additions of these proposals are deserved. In particular, there have been various proposals here, but two or three basic lines that cause recommendations could be isolated. One part about transparency in selecting judges was brought out by a number of clubs in this debate. Well, here's what I think and the HDZ club, I think it might have made it very clear that it was for the transparency of the choice of all choices. In fact, in the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, although this is not prescribed on the Committee on Justice, a public transparent debate was held and as such was presented to the media and everyone had their opportunity to present a proposal for their programmes, so I think it is a very clear message that HDZ as a majority party in this assembly has said and that I think we will not give it up. As for these security checks that came up here and caused some debate during this debate, let's look out from my point of view, and I also think about the club that when you don't have some kind of prescribed variant, then you go after it, when you have it, then it's said it's not good. It seems to me that when you take the whole set and the whole vision that the legislative proposal, or these two legislative proposals, stands out, I think it goes in one good direction of comprehensiveness. First of all, I think of the possibility first of all I like the provision that's an art. 8th or where Art is changed. The 55th time, where this score threshold is changed or liberalised in several ways, the border of these points that can be achieved during the talks is shifted. It is, of course, within yourself, if you are well-resident, clearly showing that you are going in the direction that you can make the right difference and one... in that part of the interview and all the candidates, and that those who do not achieve a certain... threshold before the end is in some way and only the state's attorney or the state's attorney body does not waste time on those candidates who did not pass that first system of choice until the end. Given the times we could talk a lot, however, it is clear to you from my statement that the HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal and we will vote for it on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116315	Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic finishes in front of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116316	I thank the president. Among the roots of Croatia's problems, our political public scene in general, and even our parliamentary representatives, among other things, is that parliamentary debates are boring, tiresome, little-interested, those who speak often read the referendums and all this is so expensive that among the citizens I think there should be difficult masochists to follow at all and to get some bit out of it. So I hope this moment of dialogue between me and my colleague Arsen Bauk opened at least some eyes, at least cleared some ears. And my question to all of you is, have we finally reached the point after so many years? So the point is that we have DSVs that, among their main tasks, if we want to control the work of the judiciary, we should check the property cards of the judges. I say, let's get the MPs out of there, get the university professors out of there, professionalize the work of that judicial control body, no one hears it, and then we have a confession from one of the DSV members who says I own a card or I saw or checked. So this is the essence of the Croatian state and the root of all problems of mistrust in the justice system. And we don't change all that, so until we change the construction of the DSV construction of the DOV and we put in place control of the work of judges and state lawyers that starts with the way the assets are acquired, there's no real change. A colleague named Bauk said that he had suggested that this check be done by the commission, as someone who had raised the property card verification system in that committee on his feet, so during my term, the database of the commission was networked with all other databases of other state bodies and responsiblely hard checks of the property cards is not there either because there are no legal tools, because the legislator had no idea what the verification should contain and what it should look like and should be carried out, and in that constitutional court said that such control bodies, such as the commission, would be worth the same story for both the DSV and the DSV when one day, one year up there, we get there says, so they do not have the knowledge of that accounting, accounting to control the entrance and exit and obvious disproportionate disproportionateness that happened then. So, all that the Croatian state has been under the patronage of such a policy that has been corrupt and corrupt for the past 30 years, it is the incapacitation of the system to fight corruption at all, starting with those preventive anti-corruption tools and that is the essence. And that's why this law is not a cure, it's not an apaurin, it's not some analgesic, it's an additional shooting of toxic models whose basic structures are imagined long ago probably from the time of Vladimir Shex. With such a judiciary, we cannot go forward, with such a judiciary we cannot guarantee the constitutional and legal rights that every state would if it were a state at all, and not a case should guarantee its citizens. It is usually said that anyone entering politics should have a political goal, and then a competition for certain specific political functions is meant. You HDZ poor people can't get rid of the opportunity to rub it on my nose every time falsely, but what else would you do if I had used my former public function to break into politics. Well, here's a concrete example. When the amendments are read, read them, and my ambition is political, professional whatever you want, it's that the knowledge I have about the system how it works on the inside I use it to fight that same system to try and fix it, and unfortunately, it's the only way to change it. The Croatian Parliament, the legislative body, the laws and political will for which it is quite clear not to have it on this side of the assembly, the question is how many there are in the opposition. Because change of state isn't just a change of government, change of state is a change of course that's wrong, it's gone completely wrong and it's been misdesigned from the very beginning. Thank you. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116317	Thank you. Mr. Bauk in front of the SDP Representatives Club is also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116318	What I didn't get in the individual debate. Comrade Nemet, you asked in fact for the Supreme Court I forgot one fact. The Supreme Court voted on the opinion to elect the Supreme Court president 4 for and 27 against. It was also a little union action, so it should read what they wrote, but take with a certain reserve, a reasonable reserve. The administrative court, say counterpart Oreshkovic, is reluctant to mention it, but I am very happy to mention it, because when colleagues from HDZ object to it for a financial conflict of interest, in fact, all your decisions have been confirmed by the Administrative Courts. And now imagine the situation that you're on the application, let's say for then Minister Arsen Bauk for something you said no, I can't do that, even though the courts have already told you six times that you're right. The HDZ would attack you. And when it came for Andrej Plenkovic, and when the courts changed practice, they didn't attack the courts, they attacked you. It doesn't make sense! It means that we immediately determine whether she acted on the decisions of the courts, and the courts changed their decisions when it came to order, Andrej Plenkovic. And now you're talking about trust in the judiciary. Well, I wouldn't trust that kind of justice either. Then let's say this with the state's attorney. So the state's attorney says there's no crime in one case, and the European lawyer says there's a criminal offence in the same case. And of course people won't really believe in institutions. And now we come to what colleagues in the debate mentioned, and these are the security checks of the judges. I'm not a prior against it. It's just a question of who's checking on those who are checking, who's estimating the graders and who trusts them? For example, for example, whether the judge or any other official in his application should state that the gambler has gambling debts and, if the security service finds it true, whether it should affect someone’s appointment. It will be decided by the one who appoints, but he knew that information. It's not exclusive, but if you knew that someone you named a cube had gambling debts, and you named it not a security service, not the one who gambled, but the one who named it or deserved it. Because you can say no, that's incorrect. You in the security department lie or it doesn't matter, it's not forbidden. So is this gay mom who doesn't need to know or anyone else who doesn't need to know, I have no idea. That a close family member doesn't cheer me up for Hajduk I don't know. Now what? I mean, for example. It's either worse to sympathise HDZ now imagine the service finding out and that I, that he doesn't want to tell me. On the one hand, therefore, certain officials are exposed to the security services, only the question is whether the security services are establishing and doing so professionally to determine the truth or package. But then maybe it's better to see it exactly on cases like that, so then we know that we have security services that are packing, which is what one influences the judiciary in Alexander Rankovic's 60s or 50s. Because it's much more dangerous then. So, let's say we had this last case, colleague Oreshkovic, but today is not clear to me why this councilman of yours decided not to deal with politics? What he did to disqualify him or he just said so he could close it so it wouldn't have a bad influence on the election. But it is, therefore, in the rank of it. So when the find comes, the opinion, the diagnosis, however you want security SOAs to be, the guy who calls it can when he reads to say you're not idiots, you did it completely wrong, and I don't agree with you and I take responsibility, or can he say about this if this is true, what do you have to say about it? Get down on your shoulders and say I won't name you for it if it's true. I don't see any problem. So, I've been in these situations if you name someone, you want to know something more, you trust the institutions. And at the end of the day, it's your decision. If someone tells me I don't want to be checked and I'll take that into account and say maybe they're hiding something, and maybe they don't trust me, I'll decide. I'll be guilty or I won't be guilty. And then when the press asks you in 10 days, did you know? You can tell me whether I knew it or not, it's your fault. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116319	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116386	We move on to as we decided this morning to a united debate on the following two points: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 279; - Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 280 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go. Before that, we will have a break requested by the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116387	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives and MPs. I request a 10-minute recess for further consultations on behalf of the Party Center and GLAS. I would like to appeal this time to all MPs who are not part of the ruling majority to oppose these legal proposals. The DSV and DOV should be the backbone of the judiciary, so the bodies in charge of the establishment, the control of the work and the resolution of the judicial officials. For all those of our citizens who think that the HDZ judiciary is not the HDZ because the HDZ judges are judges and judges in cases in favour of HDZ, the HDZ judiciary is because HDZ designed the institutional design of that judiciary and designed it in the wrong way. DSV, DOV needs to be transformed in a way that is truly independent bodies, the rights of the spine of the judiciary, and not a leash which is directed by the executive authority, and that is what we have now. We have introduced security checks as a means of manipulating the independence of judges, not to strengthen the system of property card verification but to further weaken it by introducing or removing the obligation to file the property card of state lawyers at the end of the term of office or at the end of the term of office. So what are you doing? Where's that going? You've introduced the possibility that a state attorney who's been given a sanction of his duties may be sentenced to parole. It is, it is literally the biggest blow to the independence of the judiciary, to the integrity of judicial officials who cannot be during some period of trial. That state attorney who deserved to be released must immediately be removed from the state's attorney's office, not given the opportunity to give him another period of time to see if he'll be in some violation that makes him unworthy of performing such an important duty. You've destroyed the judiciary, stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116388	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have another request for a break, the Honorable Representative Bulj on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116389	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on this very important topic. The DOV and the Judicial Council would be a pillar and the foundation of an independent judiciary, however, we have a problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is the judicial authorities, i.e. People who manage these systems proven on many occasions were those who, not many times, but the most common people in whom they had no confidence. Five basics, five greatest things that the people resent are the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. They are not only as employees of the DOV system here to do your job as independent bodies independent of Andrej Plenkovic who must telephone the state's attorney or I don't know who at any time and conduct who, what, when to do so. The State's Attorney's Office, the Sanhedrin Council, are bodies that should be placed in justice and legality, legitimacy, and of course primarily the trust of the Croatian people. The Croatian economy is falling apart because of justice and mistrust in the judiciary. And that's what I said when he was here once Djuro Sesar that justice was the most time, the greatest flow of time would need a bag. It all depended on a bag, a bigger bag that the judiciary was on his side. For this reason, I call upon you to get serious and put the state on legal grounds, not on the basis of its dependence on Andrej Plenkovic or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116390	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, she asked for a break and respected representative Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes in order to reconsider the fact that citizens have increasingly less confidence in the judiciary and independence of the judiciary from the influence of the executive government and we rightly wonder how it is possible for us to avoid convicts to be offered as reformers of the Croatian judiciary that point to corruption in the system and that it is possible that both brothers have smudged in BiH, and it is clear that this was the only option to save them from bars in the Republic of Croatia, so these two Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VAT and DSV will not contribute to increasing citizens' confidence in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116392	Stanku also asked for a Club of Representatives of the Sovereigns, so the respected representative Sacic will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116393	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are also looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to point out truly one disserpant in the motion to change the existing DSV and DOV laws where, on the one hand, we see certain positive shifts, but on the other hand really as though they were trying nowhere, here comparatively I have tried to find similar solutions in our neighbouring countries, there is no such thing as not to forget or without any obligation to continue the work without attaching this property card, on the other hand, there are provisions in the DSV which are aggravating the Croatian public, and they relate to the fact that we can judge the judge that we do not need to suspend it if it is being conducted for longer than 5 years, so my people know the difference between penalties and violations of 30 days to 5. What's in it for you and such a judge to judge us or such a state attorney to sue us, that's embarrassing, take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116394	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Katičić, who also requested a break, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116395	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will request a 10-minute break to further consult on the proposed final draft laws in this united point, which is the final proposal of the DSV Act and the DOV Act. Of course, the public is always criticised by the opposition that the perception of the Croatian judiciary is bad, when it goes in this direction to introduce newspapers that are moving towards facts or concrete arguments to introduce new digital technologies and electronic entries, and here is yesterday's, while yesterday's allocation of funds, EU grants from the NPOO programme, in which the area which is being hit by the Croatian judiciary is huge and will bring revolutionary changes. Of course, when you look segmented then you can hear various complaints, but the judiciary is complex and as such must have a comprehensive approach. I think these intended items are also these legal items that are today at our point and others that have been and... The last month or two on the agenda of this esteemed home from the CAP, the ZTD, the Law on Public Libraries until tomorrow's debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of Land Books makes it clear that it is the overall solution in order to make the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary which, in my humble opinion, is much better for the benefit of all Croatian citizens... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the judiciary does exist, thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116396	Thank you. Of course all breaks are approved, and in accordance with Article. 293.b. we will continue, and I will now ask, on behalf of the motion of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and the administration of respected Juru Martinovic to give an explanation on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116397	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, you have before you the amendments and additions to the DSV Act and the DOV Act which seek to ensure more effective work of both councils, to improve the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials, and to increase their responsibility and transparency. Amendments to the DSV Law to the Judges of the High Criminal Court shall allow candidates in the first elections for members of the Board of Judges to be carried out after the entry into force of this Act which would otherwise be disabled by the prescribed conditions of conduct of a judicial office in a court of at least 5 years, which discrimination should be removed in view of the beginning of the work of the High Criminal Court. In order to increase the transparency of election procedures for members of the Board of Justice officials, the obligation to deliver résumés to candidates, candidates, and their publication shall be laid down on the website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia or the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the DOV Act also stipulated a reduction of obligations in the performance of state attorneys for deputy state attorneys, who are members of the DOV, and for the president by 75%, and for members of 20% to encourage and facilitate more effective work of the State's Attorney's Council and to carry out coordination with a solution that has been in place for a long time compared to judges elected as members of the State Judicial Council. In order to administratively relieve the State Judicial Council, the obligation to keep an eye on the judges and to provide technical support to the work of the Commission for the selection of members of the Council acting at the Supreme Court shall be omitted. From now on, administrative support for the work of the Commission will be provided by the Supreme Court. The process of planning to fill the court seats is reduced from two to one year to determine the needs of the courts more realistically. For the sake of greater transparency and public availability, these draft laws also require the publication of a plan to fill out court and alternate seats and amend them to, exhibit them on the website of the Ministry and Council. In the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials to the first-degree judicial authorities of the provisions of these laws, they shall comply with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy in relation to the work of the State School for Judicial Officials. Therefore, entering judicial duties for candidates who at the time of their application are advisers in judicial bodies will be particularly evaluated by the evaluation of their work as advisers. Provisions on the institution of appointment and transfer shall be made. More specifically, the conditions for the appointment of persons in courts and the state's first-degree attorneys are regulated and only in the order of those who do not already exercise judicial duty. The transfer institution shall be further regulated in such a way that only an official who carries out that duty for at least 3 years can be transferred to another judicial authority of the same degree. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedures for permanent relocation, specific procedures consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duty or of assessing the behaviour of the state attorney's office and the talks before the council shall also be prescribed. In order to achieve greater efficiency of the Institute of Temporary Jurisdiction to work in other courts, the possible time of reference is increased from a maximum of 4 years to 8 years. The appointment procedure of officials to senior judicial authorities shall be governed by the way in which the appointment is made possible by persons who have previously exercised judicial duties with a special written examination of the knowledge. It leaves a limit to the council that they do not call candidates who have reached less than 130 points in their interview. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks in front of the council is increasing from 15 to 20 and increasing the range of top candidates from 10 to 15 to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. Amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council of the catalogue of the staging works shall be introduced in a new step-by-step act of not giving consent to carry out the security check. It shall be redefined to the extent that the phasing-out of the duties in such a way as to increase the obligation to comply with the indicative criteria to 100. The framework criteria were now considered fulfilled when the judge achieved 80% of the judicial norm. In addition, an act of limitations due to the failure to take action in a procedure without justifiable reason is clearly determined as a stupendous act of disorderly conduct of duty. When it comes to the procedures for the appointment of the deputy chief of state attorney in the order of the candidates acting in a judicial capacity, an element of the written examination of knowledge as well as the judge shall be introduced. This will assess the candidate's abilities more objectively. The proposed amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council introduces several different fines in the strict procedures against the deputy state's attorneys. The possibility of a conditional conviction and its impeachment shall be introduced and, in order to increase the effectiveness of the work of the council, the possibility of appointing a special Council of Discrimination, which shall determine the facts and report to the Council on the facts identified. It is prescribed that failure to give consent for the implementation of the security implementation is the basis for the discharge of the duties of a deputy State attorney. In order to remove the ambiguity, the procedure for determining the circumstances of the termination of office and the resolution of the State's attorneys is further regulated. The appointment procedures of the Presidents of the Courts and of the State Lawyers shall allow the appointment of the same persons more than twice, if that is not the case, but subject to the prior behaviour of the Judge or Deputy to a minimum of the amount of time the person has acted as the Head of Justice. In order to increase the effectiveness of the verification procedures and to establish the proportionality of the notified and real assets of the judicial officials in the procedures for the control of the reported property reports, the obligation to supply the requested data by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance shall be specifically prescribed without delay in order to make this legal basis an exception to the obligation to keep the tax secret, which has thus far been an obstacle to the supply of the requested data. As a non-responsible obligation in view of the continuity and sustainability of the duties of state attorneys, the obligation to submit a report on assets at the end of the duty which does not exist and in relation to the judge has been left out. The State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are important bodies which decide on the appointment and resolution of judicial officials. The legislative changes ahead of you will further increase the quality of the work of these councils and ensure better quality mechanisms to ensure that the judicial system is more efficient, more quality and responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116398	Thank you very much, please stay here because there are a whole series of replicas, some of them were already before you spoke. Let's take it in a row. The first respected representative, Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116399	British Justice Minister David Wolfson resigned taking responsibility for his Prime Minister Boris Johnson's legal failures. It's usually called responsibility. Minister Malenica and you, his assistants, have been running a judicial portfolio for the third year that is literally falling apart. The DORH is only after 5 years of the start of the Agrokor affair to press charges against Todorovic and his assistants, and as we know within 3 years, a final verdict should be made. And it is publicly announced that, at the attempt of former DORH deputy Mirala Allerić Puklin to state the facts of the anti-zaconic cover-up of the Borg affair, which was involved by your boss Plenkovic, the USKOK investigator, turned off the microphone. What kind of judicial scandal must happen to you from the ministry to resign? Because the fact that the judiciary is destroying Croatia is well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116400	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116401	Dear MPs, therefore, cannot comment as a representative of the executive authority. And as for the proceedings, I must tell you that democracy, the rule of law, that the institutes on which democratic societies are based are all these procedures but also human rights in these proceedings. So we need to protect the legal order, we need to protect democratic standards, and we need to protect the human rights of the people against whom the proceedings are being conducted. It would be the easiest thing to do without those standards, then everything could run fast and make decisions in a year. So, I want to tell you the legal order means respecting procedures, meaning respecting parties, people in the process being suspects, accused, accused or witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116402	MP Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116403	Article 238 was injured because your answer, which is not an answer, is also an insult to MPs, as well as Croatian citizens. You're talking about the rule of law and what it's based on. She is based primarily on respect for the law. The law should be held as a drunk float, not your way of understanding the right not to be held as a drunk float and there lies a fundamental problem and you represent it and that is why the judiciary destroys Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116404	That, too, was a replica, so based on Article 240(1), you get a second warning. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116405	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State Martinovic. What we can see between the first reading and today's final proposal of the law we see is that a shift has been made to increase the effectiveness of the verification process, and to establish the proportionality of the reported assets and the real assets of the state attorneys and their deputies, i.e. the possibility of the State's attorney and the Judicial Council being able to submit a request to the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance and other competent authorities to carry out the process of establishing the acquisition of assets and that the results of this procedure must be notified to the Council in order to determine not only accuracy but also proportionality. So given this change, which makes the councils stronger, or better, a better way of checking to say a little about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116406	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116407	Thank you, Your Honor. So democracy is that we think differently about the institutes that we're introducing here. So, we who have proposed this law, which is the Ministry of Justice prepared it, but the government suggests it to you, surely in that segment, we have absolutely acted without any figure in our pocket. So we've done this Institute of Transparency, he's been first for judicial officials introduced in the last year and a half. Now, we empower him further to introduce this law the obligation of those bodies that have data, which is primarily the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, that, at the invitation of these two councils, he must submit data to the specific person for which the verification is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116408	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116409	Thank you. I have one minute, so I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the Croatian public, I'm talking to those MPs who are not part of HDZ's unanimity. So until the design of the institutions that the HDZ Croatia imagines simply cannot move forward, and here's what's wrong with this case. The State Attorney's Council is, among other things, responsible for recruiting new state attorneys, for appointing them and bringing them into the system. They're part of the state's attorney, the State's Attorney's Council, among other things, two parliamentary deputies. The selection and appointment procedure shall carry out, inter alia, a verification, written examination of the knowledge. As a rule, this means making an action, such as writing an indictment or writing a solution to an investigative prison or a proposal for an investigative prison. Now imagine who's controlling it? A parliamentary representative. In particular, it is now Hasanbegovic and Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj. Now imagine what knowledge Hasanbegović could theoretically have that he could check...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116410	Thank you very much. You need something to say to the secretary of state?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116411	Dear MPs, so despite the fact that you haven't spoken to me, I must tell you that you know very well that seven professionals sit in both councils. So, two politicians one from the opposition, one from the ruling structure and two university professors. Of course, it's normally a proper legal profession. And if we have these two politicians there, you can think in that professional sense of what their impact on the selection of personnel is. We must agree that it is insignificant unless you think of some kind of bypass channels that the legislator does not foresee, which are possible but I do not want to talk about them. So why would they talk about something that's your fiction and your conjecture?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116412	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116413	Thank you, Vice President. Under the Law on Courts, State Secretarys will carry out a strict procedure for failing to comply with the standards of judges. So far, it has been prescribed that they must meet 80% of the standard, and now it is 100% to increase the efficiency of the courts. That's the word. One of the the thesis that does not contribute is that the system of standards is set up to prevent the rational division of jobs, because it would be logical for the most experienced judges to work concentratedly on the most difficult subjects. But that's not possible, because they have to run after the norm. My question to you is how many norms the case has affected the quality of the work of the judiciary, because it is the quantity. We have exact numbers. But does the Justice Department have any idea how much it affected the very quality of the verdicts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116414	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116415	Dear MPs, so the work of the executive authority and you as parliamentary representatives is that of our judicial authority, the state's attorney's authority, which is strong under our Constitution and by law, we independently make as good a legal framework as possible for them to serve that fundamental purpose, which is to be just, that a Croatian citizen, a Croatian entrepreneur, can receive adequate protection and adequate justice from them. We're making an effort to make improvements in that direction. Every time a new institute, and this isn't new, so until now, it's been tried in front of the DSV and DOV by those who broke the norm, so now we've raised it from 80 to 100 just because of this perception that we want to fix together with all of you, and we're sure it won't be any haranga and hacks to judges, but we have to send a message to the citizens that we want to that the norms are fulfilled. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116416	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116417	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Namely, the problem of the judiciary is high and trust in the judicial system is definitely too small by Croatian citizens and this is often cited as one of the main reasons why people leave this country. Namely, under the applicable law which has been the State's attorneys and their deputies since 1.1.2020, within 30 days of their entry into service, they must submit their property card and do so within 30 days of the completion of their duties. These amendments and the amendments to the laws no longer have to bear the property card within 30 days of his duty being completed, and they have to start at the beginning, so it's completely unclear why even when you're erasing at the end, why do they even have to file at the beginning now and what is the urgency that this is happening if we can't compare the initial state and the final state? And do you feel that these changes are going hand in hand to increase trust in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116418	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116419	Your Honor, you are not going to anyone's hands simply this is a functional matter, a functional solution in the law since these people are leaving the DAV and the state's authority, so they're leaving their jurisdiction. It's not the possibility that the authorities of this country are still checking it out, so we have some sort of famous article in the IRS. 63, which also speaks of disproportionateness. So they can't come here anymore under a tight D.O.V. after they've ceased their duty as a state attorney and for these reasons it's removed as dysfunctional.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116420	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116421	I thank the chairman. Therefore, it seems to me that in this proposal it is not possible to regulate the delay of a judge by acting in an individual case, in particular when it comes to the case where judges need more than a year from the time of receipt of the action to determine the date of the preparatory hearing. We know that such situations often happen in practice, so why didn't we include this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116422	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116423	Comrade Vukovac, a legislator cannot simply solve everything that is possible in life. So, you as a lawyer who's been going to court, I know that, but I've been a lawyer for years, and I know that not abuses like that, but there are bad judges I'd say. But there are procedural tools, therefore, and in relation to the President of the Court, in relation to the compensation of the damage to the litigation of the judiciary, there are a number of tools that we who have done these laws felt that such an intervention is not a place of trial here, but it could certainly be undermined by the strict act of disorderly conduct of a judicial duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116424	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116425	Your Honor, Secretary of State. As a long-standing judicial officer and a lawyer, you have the knowledge that makes you a relevant associate, so I am interested, especially in the other system, so I am interested in how you interpret and why, which is a political legal basis, which is a generally preventive emergency that you simply raised the level of detention of both state attorneys and judges in a judicial... state's attorney's office, regardless of the criminality of five years or more, and on the other hand we have officers, customs officers, who even for moral acts of moral delintological, ethically if they violate the rules, which is justified?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116426	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116427	Your Honor. If that's the case, she acts in a permanent manner and I would agree with you, but I have listened to you in the assembly on many occasions when you talk about the rule of law, but when you stress the presummation of innocence, innocence, so I don't advocate any inequality against anyone. But you need to know that we have serious traffic-related penalties for various other crimes, would it be socially justified that these people are suspended from doing their job, and they can do it? In any situation, an assessment of the DSV or the State's Attorney's Board may react and prevent it from appearing in a courtroom on any side if it considers it socially unwarranted. But I do not advocate, I agree with you that inequality should be removed from legal traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116428	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116429	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here in relation to the first reading, a provision has been supplemented by which all those candidates who approach the interview, to say so in front of the DOV and DSV, will be published in a transparent manner so that the number of points of all those who approach it is seen and I think it is good because not everyone will be invited to the interview but only those who have a chance of being chosen in the final number of points they can make. However, what I am interested in and what some obstacles have been about, we are introducing a tight council that can only carry out a tight procedure in a way that determines only facts, which is reported by the DOV, or DSV, which then makes a decision. I'm curious, it will certainly speed up the proceedings, but whether the DOV, which finally and under its constitutional jurisdiction, decides in this way, will still be denied for that direct impression from the hearings itself. And will that affect quality? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116430	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116431	Dear MPs and colleagues, so that's where it went for, also for functionality. If a number of cases were to appear before the State's Attorney's Council, this Council, which is also advocated by law, are members of the State's Attorney's Council. So they would study a dozen writings in a constant way, determine the actual state of affairs, and excerpt the councils that would eventually decide. You don't take it out of jurisdiction in fact, the council is made up of them, all 11 members. So, there'll be regular reporters. It's common everywhere in legal proceedings. So, I was a member of the administrative body of the Croatian Bar Association, and there we also had a man reporter who had 20 and some people introduced to a fact-finding substrate and suggested taking a stand, and then they were ultimately as this case will be deciding whether to establish an offence and whether to determine the sanctions for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116432	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116433	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I will not say any news if I say that we are generally not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary. We are not satisfied on this side either, and neither are those who are actors because when we look at the polls they are, they show that dissatisfaction is all, the most dissatisfaction is ultimately citizens. Therefore, when you go into some kind of amendments and supplement laws such as these amendments and additions to the law, we somehow expect some step forward. We expect a step forward. You here talk often and reason on replicas of form. It's about the form that you've decided on, the form that I'm interested in, the form that we're going to get, that step. So, to try to tell us in 2-3 sentences that this step will be important and important to these amendments and amendments to the law that will allow us to get better in the judiciary because I'm afraid we're coming. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] often to the part where the man went missing, and here where the contents went missing. [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116434	Thank you very much, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116435	Dear MPs, not lawyers, but philosophers say the form guaranteed content. So the form in that sense is important. What improvements do we see here? So we see them, I present them, whoever wants to see them can see them. The one who won't, of course, can only see the bad side. But we have also done these amendments to the process of appointing, relocating, so reference to work to other judicial bodies of the same level has been made primarily transparent. We introduced property cards for judicial officials a few years ago, which hasn't been introduced very long. But I must tell you that regardless of these two councils, I am free to say the pride of our democracy. I've been visiting the justice systems of some EU Member States, they've got this thing worse solved than we have in the sense that their councils are like this. Much more tied to executive power than ours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116436	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116437	Thank you very much. Here I'd just like you to explain to us and the public for a little while. So a state attorney and a judge must commit a crime for more than five years in order not to be in that place anymore. What about this under five years? What's this under five years? So up to five years in prison, he can judge us, he can bring us in, he can prosecute us, he can get us, I don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about state lawyers. If you can explain this article you have here, is it unclear that we will be tried and investigated by people who are sentenced to 5 years in prison. Only out of five years in prison will they Give me a minute to explain that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116438	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116439	Dear Representative Bulj, so I think you've mixed up those against whom the proceedings are being conducted, you've finally said those who are convicted. So, I'm not sure what you asked me, whether for those who are convicted or for those against whom the proceedings are being conducted. For those who are condemned of course can no longer be, they are no longer worthy of judicial or state's attorney's duty. In the conduct of criminal proceedings, there is a specific situation in relation to the type of criminal offence suspected by the person. A moment ago, I also replied to an esteemed representative that the presumption of innocence, we all like to invite her, would be said when it suits us. In this situation and these people are protected by the presumption of innocence, and the functioning of the judicial authority and the state's attorney's office is one important social, social interest and this is exactly the way it is. Of course, though, be without worry, neither the President of the Court, nor the head of the State’s Attorney’s Office will allow a person he deems to have no dignity at this time to act accordingly. He's gonna ask the DSV, and he's got a series of tools that he can do. suspend until further notice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116440	Thank you, Mr. Bull, no, yes, Mr. Bull's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116441	Thank you very much. Injury to Article 238, I said clearly. What is it that this one can conduct a procedure if up to five years of law is conducted against him by prison processes, and those of 5 can't. So we're going to be tried and the state's attorney is going to take action on us by those who, that's the same thing, then what equality is, of which you arrested these ministers. So what are these judges and state lawyers, the gods on earth? I know it has to be independent. But this is a precedent, I don't know if this is anywhere else. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116442	It was a replica, a reminder, please, it was a replica. Mr. Jaksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116443	Dear Mr Martinovic, in a debate or a public consultation of amendments to the DSV Act, a lot of people working in the state's attorney's office have been involved. And they asked the question of Article 51(2), which is amended and said that for a judge of the municipal, commercial and administrative court, a person who has graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials and who is not acting in a judicial capacity could be appointed. Isn't that maybe a little bit too rigid, not to say and discriminatory because this turns out that, say, the deputy state attorneys will never be able to report to the competition again to be judges?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116444	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116445	Your Honor. So, these institutes that regulate the entry of judicial officials are socially troubled for the last ten, 15 years, and I believe that there is a legitimate interest in the professional primary public, but also in the general public that this institute is being arranged in a good and quality way. The current legislators and so far the governments that had this legislative initiative and the council adopted it had this attitude that doesn't agree with your position. I personally think that the system should be done so that it can be made available to the highest-quality personnel, that tools are developed that will enable the quality of this quality to be checked and that then, indeed, in the state's attorney's office, but also in the courts, we have the best that our society can offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116446	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116447	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I am listening to all the lines and it's interesting and how everyone forgot about the biggest state's attorney's affair in the last few years, and it was an affair involving Chief State Attorney Drazen Jelenić. To remind all those present, he's no longer a state attorney, chief state attorney because he was a member of a mass organization. Now that one of those was a very specific situation, I'm not going to say that I'm wrong that it's not, I'm actually glad, but is such a situation prevented or foreseen by this bill? Is it possible that it's going to go through some kind of additional background check or I don't know some other institute that doesn't have a similar situation that we're changing the state's attorney, the attorney general, because he's a member of some banned organization or organization that doesn't fit our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116448	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116449	Your Honor, I repeat, it is difficult for the legislation, no matter what will it has foresaw everything life can bring. This law is not a fundamental law for state lawyers, we have a Law on State's Attorney's Office which is much more thorough than those terms, it's matter from that law. But I agree that, as a society through these institutions, through laws, we must have the tools to anticipate and prevent as many such situations as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116450	Thank you. Mr. Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116451	Thank you. Here's the esteemed, according to the analysts of the World Economic Forum of our Justice, without any offense to anyone or any country, in a worse position than the independence of the judiciary in one Congo, Sierra Leone, Mozambique, and I'm just wondering if you think maybe we're a little late with some things that in every private company in every private company in our country are a perfectly normal thing, whether you're an NKV worker or a VSS worker. I see only now in the amendments to the Law of Judgment and the Council of Lawyers that a résumé should be attached, so I wonder how these people were then chosen, based on some impression or how it went? Don't you think that we have a little bit of a cough over being in the EU and behind Bulgaria and even behind countries that are not in the EU like Serbia without talking about Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116452	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116453	Your Honor. So, I haven't had a chance to see those analyses you're talking about, I'm not reluctant to trust you, so I guess you've seen those data somewhere, but we're not introducing anything into this legal order of ours in this segment for the first time. So, the checks have existed so far, so I'm thinking knowledge checks, so the procedure has been pretty transparent, and now we're just doing it harder and more transparently, if everything has to be published on the Ministry's pages, the Supreme Court's pages and the state's attorney's pages. So we're raising the criteria in order to fix what you're talking about and what we're all talking about and what we all, I hope we want together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116454	Thank you. Mr. Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116455	Your Honor, State's Attorney, Secretary of State, excuse me. When you were talking about how many countries actually envy our legal solutions, the independence of the judiciary, the resolution of the DSV and everything that is related to the whole concept of justice. However, what they do not envy is actually the perception of the judiciary in Croatia, but also abroad. Namely, as you know, the judiciary is treated through public opinion research in a way that is considered one of the biggest problems in Croatia. That's how they treat it, in the end I'd say these analyses that my colleague mentioned, which means we're independent behind Mozambique, which seems strange after all. And will these changes lead to any fundamental changes, not only in perception but also in the reality of the Croatian judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116456	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116457	Your Honor, I find it difficult to say now that this is now taking place and after 15 days we will be the perfect rule of law, the state's attorney's office will function perfectly, the courts will function perfectly, but we of these legal documents, these legal changes, create assumptions for better functioning, for better supervision of officials' finances, for better supervision of their compliance with the law, for better control of the verticals. We're making efforts, I'd say along with you, with the MPs, that segment we make better, and that's the only guarantee that tomorrow we'll have better judgmental power. I wouldn't agree with you at all if I've been a part of the judicial scene for a long time, so private, so here at this position of officials, I think we've taken huge steps forward. If others run faster, we can talk, but the judiciary and our fate rule are much better today. Of course, there are actors who oppose these changes, and you can see that when some legal changes occur that there are actors inside those judicial families that are against you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116458	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you for now. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, and first of all by clubs, the Mosta Club, first Mr. Kujundzic, then Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116459	Thank you to the chairman, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. By listening to you here, you really get the impression that these changes, like all of them, are really good. I believe in human beings that you have indeed read everything here as well as every single pen that has participated in writing these amendments that has written them with a certain intensity to eliminate everything that is negative in our Croatia. And even that doesn't matter, what's important is that everyone and every pen that wrote this in the evening when he lays down with his God feels the peace and sense of freedom he had in writing this. What I will apostrophe exclusively will result from everything that exists in our Croatia. It is true that any system, so and specifically and this law and the procedures and choices itself, contains people who are honest, good and honest, most often quiet about whom we do not read, whose names we do not know, but whose names are given to them by individual escapades of greedy individuals. The above changes can therefore be placed in the category of formal part of the change, but what is essential to me is the Council's restriction that the interview does not call candidates who have achieved less than 130 points of duty, the reasons why this again knows who wrote this. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during a conversation in front of the council is increasing from 15 to 20, this is, in my opinion, a stumbling block. It seems 2009 to me. When a member of the D.O.V. or a court judge, I don't remember very well, chose or voted for a state attorney or gave his vote for his daughter from his colleague, you know how he explained that he had good genetic predisposition. In these changes that I've quoted here, I'm afraid there's enough and a solution waiting for us because this one here doesn't have to be the fifth one, but it can be chosen by 135th base of this conversation and raising the number of points. I repeat, if that is the case, we live in Croatia in which unfortunately the perception of complete DORH is what it is, the perception of the judiciary is what it is, whether it is justified, thanks to individual bad cases, it has generally been bad, no, so we all know the good part and the lawyer or we have them in our environment whether our friends, whether family members who we know are doing a decent job, but the law should, unfortunately, come from those who are prone to machinations. This here I fear may lead us to be chosen by someone for whom there is a uniform opinion of all those who sit on a council independently or unfoundedly or where there is no starting point of what is called quality. Is that how it's gonna be, of course we'll see in the time that's ahead of us. We are always left with the fact that in general speaking of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia it is a shame to have Zdravko Mamic reform our judiciary. I know those of you who write all these things and bring them good-looking aren't. I don't know if it's worth walking down the street that someone doesn't point your finger, but what's certainly your job is to cut the space for the machinators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116460	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116461	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and respected secretary of state. The objectives of the law they touch in the judicial system should be to increase justice, independence, efficiency, zero tolerance to clientalism and corruption. With the amendment of the DSV Act today, can you tell us what exactly the goal of these lists you have succeeded in achieving? Not one, not one because you've made a catastrophic mistake, not that you haven't reached your goal, but you're doing a justice system erosion. So, instead of volunteering for the expertise and knowledge of candidates who want to apply for DSV members, you are not giving points for their expertise and for their knowledge, you are giving points for oral conversation, and no one knows what it is when it comes to oral conversation because interesting oral conversations are not recorded, they are not publicized, so that you can freely assess beauty in oral conversation, you may be estimating beauty, you may not know it, you may be estimating the battle of voice, but you do not assess expertise, you are not estimating knowledge, because that you are giving more points for the knowledge achieved in the exam and for the expertise, you are not giving points, you are increasing points for oral conversation, and you do not know what happens on that conversation, which opens up a bigger space for manipulation for the members of the existing DSV, and therefore a huge space for the selection of judges to be brought down to the site. A very interesting item, is that you are now coming to the Constitutional Court for lawsuits and going through lawsuits because you did this. Because you have to explain to the Croatian public, and also to the Constitutional Court how that someone who is 169 on the list when you look at expertise and achieved knowledge can get more on oral conversation than they got, I don't know, 11 on the list when you watch expertise and knowledge because that's what you do, and now by increasing the points for oral conversation you do even more room for manipulation. If judges are chosen as a result, then how can we expect clientelism to be punished when, with the help of clientelism, DSV members are elected, and thus judges. How can we expect that there will be less corruption, if DSV members feel that it is ethically right to be chosen in a clientelistic way? How can we expect justice if the choice of judges smells like nepotism, clientelism and corruption? How can we expect the expertise of judges if the expertise is not approved? How can we expect efficiency if there is no expertise? At all the important goals that need to be achieved to change the law on the judicial system, you have fallen. Only with one disastrous change. Once. Don't try to do this, don't do this. After all, you want to assign more points to the oral exam, publish publicly. You record the conversation and make it public, so we can see which genius is hiding behind a person, maybe there's a genius that doesn't speak well in writing, but perfectly explains it in oral conversation. There may be such geniuses, but we all know very well in Croatia how to end the story you're setting. Nothing's public, everything's being arranged behind the table, and in the end, those who deserve to be judges will be court counselors for life because they keep their opinions and their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116462	Thank you, too. Just one notice. At the diplomatic gallery of the delegation, there is the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament of the Republic of Albania under the leadership of the Committee Chairman Mrs. Mime Kodhelly, if I read it correctly, and if I'm not clapping for... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Applause.]] Thank you for being here. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj, Social Democrats' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116463	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In my debate in the first reading on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on DOV and DSV, I have made a series of remarks and proposals, however, it seems that the Government does not hold much to the comments and proposals of parliamentary representatives and MPs, as well as to the observations coming from the Supreme Court because it is a list of proposals, remarks and opinions given on the proposal of both laws which the applicant did not accept much greater than those he accepted. However, statistics on the perception of the situation in the judiciary do not go to the government. According to the Eurobarometer's results on the perception of judicial independence, Croatia is last in last place. The main reason for not trusting in the independence of the judiciary is because of the opinion, interference or pressure of the government or politicians, and in the second place, the interference or pressure that comes from economic circles. Whether these changes will help to achieve the objectives of the Article. 3 The DSV Act that the Council is an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the DSV in the Republic of Croatia. It is also difficult because the DORH report for 2021 states that it is necessary to team up and return the DORH. It is also said that the DORH needs to ensure the necessary material and financial conditions for work in order to be able to counter corruption, organised crime and economic crime more effectively and to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. And that citizens are not satisfied with the efficiency of which the DORH opposes corruption and organised crime and economic crime and protects the assets of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to all in Croatia and to the sparrows of the branch. And then 8 days ago, we have a press conference from Mostar, a fugitive convict, Zdravko Mamić, who vulgarly, with no choice at all, collapsed on the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, including the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, the court in Osijek and the DSV. And we rightly ask ourselves, how is it possible for the fugitive convicts to offer themselves to us as reformers of the Croatian judiciary that point to corruption in the system and how it is possible for them to slip along with their brother in BiH, when it was clear to everyone that it was their only and most profitable option not to end up behind bars in the Republic of Croatia. But not only does it turn out that we are criticising it, it is good that the first reading remarks have been adopted that the points of the candidates have been reached during the discussion with the DSV on the Council's website, as well as the résumés of members' candidates. Councils. The adoption of the DORH proposal shall be subject to the following conditions: 103. The law on the State Attorney's Council shall be complemented by a way to prescribe the obligation of the Tax Administration and other competent authorities to, at the request of the National Attorney's Council without delay from the delivery of the requested notice and data. It also accepted the State Judicial Council's proposal that, if necessary, the Council may request the IRS to carry out the examination procedure of the way in which the judges' assets are acquired. However, when the head of the Department of Tax fraud at the Ministry of Finance has received more than 10 000 kunas in order to return them to the state budget, it is not clear whether we can rely on the IRS data without stronger internal control in the IRS itself. The government also considers as a proposer the groundless remarks from the parliamentary debate that the increase in the number of points from 15 to 20 that the Council may assign to candidates in the process of appointing judges will reduce the objectivity of these proceedings. We continue to argue that there are no objective criteria for estimating the response to these talks, which enables nepotism and clientelism and negative selection and further loss of citizens' trust in the judiciary. The government also did not adopt the remarks that we made in the first reading debate concerning periodic security checks on all judges. The proposal states that in order to strengthen the strict responsibility of judges of the catalogue of strict works, it is complemented by the strict lack of consent to carry out security checks in accordance with the latest amendments to the Law on Courts prescribed by the periodic security check every five years for judges. This proposal is opposed by the Association of Croatian Judges, the European Association of Judges, the Supreme Court, etc. Security checks by judges every five years can bring judges into the court's position of dependence on politicians, executive authorities, and no EU country has said such a solution and Supreme Court President Radovan Dobronic. It is clear that the SOA is always under the supervision of the executive authority, and therefore the proposed provision is discriminatory in relation to judges as officials of the judicial authority because, as part of equality, the three state authorities do not carry out such periodic checks either for the holders of the executive authority or for the legislative authorities. No comments have also been adopted concerning an increase in the percentage of compliance with the framework criteria for the work of judges for the orderly conduct of judicial duties. Under orderly conduct of duty, the duty to meet the framework criteria for the work of judges from 80 per cent to 100 per cent is increased, and, at the same time, the disorderly conduct of the duties determines the statute of limitations due to the failure to take procedural actions without a reasonable reason. In essence, this proposed amendment means that if the judge does not, without a reasonable reason, make a 100% decision on the envisaged framework criteria for the work of judges against that judge, a strict procedure will be initiated. The resolution ministry states that the current framework criteria for working judges for 2021 have proved that 63% of judges already reach 80% in September and then slow down their duties. It is apparent from the above that framework criteria should be amended, which are clearly not adequate and should not be introduced in order to initiate a strict procedure if the judge takes as much as 99% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria. The court's work is specific. We can't prescribe exactly how many judges will pass the verdict according to certain fixed quotas, because each case is different. Well, they're not potatoes that a kilo of potatoes is always a kilo of potatoes. If the judge respects the procedural deadlines in litigation and criminal proceedings, we cannot punish him unless he has met some prescribed standard of 100%. This could only happen if the cases we know in the judiciary weren't, or in the judiciary. The work of the courts should be more open to the public and show that the best-quality ones are rewarded, and disciplined by those who have no place in the system. The Social Democrats' Club welcomes the adoption of the Supreme Court's proposal on the need to present a judicial electoral body of DSV candidates from the judges' ranks and to prescribe the obligation to publish and résumé candidates on the website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In a situation where we don't have the Lobby Act, we can't let the judge and state attorney's election be won by the candidate who has a stronger party machine behind him, stronger players either financially, whether related relatively, godfatherly or friendly ties. We are in favour of reforming the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council and a transparent way of electing judges within the judiciary, and democratic control should be ensured by greater transparency in the work of judges and judicial councils by publication, systematicisation of judicial practice, building of internal control systems. We believe that the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorneys' Council and amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council did not meet these democratic criteria of transparency of choice of judges and state lawyers and therefore their adoption will not increase citizens' trust in the judiciary and the criterion of strengthening the independence of the State Council and the State Judicial Council. Therefore, the Social Democrats Club will not support these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116464	Thank you, too. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian Democratic Community club, and in its first reading, said it would support this law and in our first reading it was acceptable and nothing important had changed to change our mind. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Council and on the State Judicial Council. Both the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are extremely important bodies in our judicial system, because both of them are actually engaged in saying this by conditionality, means by making decisions on the appointment of judges, state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, their advancement, their strict responsibility. So they're also involved in the education of judges and state lawyers and these are extremely important things. What I think has entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was negotiations with the EU on obtaining the status of an EU member and, in fact, one of the more important issues that have been detected in this process is that our system of choice of judges and state lawyers should be further strengthened and deprived of any possibility of the influence of the policy and that is why these bodies and found in the Constitution are as defined as they are that they are actually protecting the independence and independence of the judiciary. In public, of course, there are various thesis, various definitions that continue to exist in the appointment of the government of clientelism, that there are still unobsessive criteria and such things, that it is not dominated by expertise but in fact by other things and I must say right away here from the first hand, since by this HS I am appointed as a member of the DSV that this, I deny such attitudes because I think that the DSV decisions it makes are objectively, impartially and truly based on expertise. Because you know, it's not just those 15, it's now 20 points that suggest talking to DSV and DOV, it's not dominant in making a decision on someone's appointment or advancement. Before that, there is, of course, a much greater share in the structure of points relating to those decisions taken by the judicial councils of certain courts about, for example, some candidates who have achieved in their work and these assessments are dominant, too, in relation to these judicial and state-level advisers who have completed the State School for Judges, who are actually making decisions here, and in fact, these are the guarantees of their expertise, and the conversation itself is, in fact, one such, an auxiliary criterion where they question the motive of these people, their ambitions come, but it is always the determination of expertise. Finally, all those decisions, both DSV and DOV, are subject to legal protection, so anyone who considers it not to be well-valued, can appear before the Constitutional Court and before the Constitutional Court ask that this decision be seen again whether the decision is in accordance with the law. Such proceedings before the Constitutional Court are very limited. So the candidates themselves who go through this procedure thus saying that these decisions were made, that they were made objectively. I must say that here, indeed, a long time ago when the system was, while we were not a member of the EU, there were a lot of objections to DSV decisions and to the council of lawyers because, it was known that the DSV members themselves were making progress in this, from a lower court to a higher level. Now, if it's true about membership with, in the DSV, it should be seen in any case individually, but here I have to say that for years, since this system has worked, we've known some incident decisions, it's been known to happen to the public to be this one, to open some kind of case where it's said why it's named this one, and it's not that, for the past few years, it's just not because, again, those evaluations that relate to expertise when it comes to progress, those judges who have made decisions that they haven't, which when they've been mourned, they're past that control in the higher courts, that those advisors who have finished the State School for judges and state lawyers, have good grades and these are dominant things. I have to say in these competitions where advisers appear, the largest number of appointments is from the order of counselors and state attorneys and judges, and these are people who have actually passed the procedure within the institutions that know the system and can say that the whole series of candidates who would really be great judges or state lawyers, and it's just very likely that many of them won't get their turn because at this point we have more or less than 1700 judges, judicial advisers somewhere around, same close to 700 or something, and we're simply the largest in the EU and in any case, we're big and by number of cases. As we discuss here, and many criticise this, the judiciary, a million and 200 thousand cases are being brought before the judiciary every year. Despite the great mistrust and the great perception of mistrust in the judicial system, so a million and 200 thousand cases come to our courts, so we could look at it in a different aspect than the one we're talking about. We think that these changes that bring about the amendments to the Law on State Judgment and Lawyerly Council in any case move the system forward, they are definitely, will improve the work because we think it's good to have this point threshold where this State Judicial and Lawyer Council gives no more than 15 than 20 points, it strengthens that role itself by DSV and DOV. Also, I think it's okay to comply with this provision that means representatives in the DSV may be, may be the judge of the High Court of Criminal Court who, as a new one, exists in our system. Also, the plan of planning personnel, there is a shortening deadline, which is fine, means that as quickly as possible responds to the needs within this one, the judiciary itself, and in particular it seems important to me to change that for the counselors themselves and... in the Court Corps and the state's attorney's office, to be given a separate assessment and about their work because it had appeared and actually appeared as a problem, they had grades related to the State School and then the first generation that went first on that program, there were the criteria of those interrogators being somewhat stricter, they got slightly less points, and those who came later, so they got more points, and they learned from those who got less points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think by this provision, we can kind of cancel these things. Also, I think that this provision is good, that candidates are not invited to talk, which even with the most points they can't really do anymore because on the hierarchical list they're related to the number of points that they're low that they can't get the appointment, I don't think there's any tragedy to do that because people simply don't have enough points and on that side I don't think there's any need to go to this second part. As for these certain statements that were here and the allegations that were here, I completely agree with the secretary of state who said that after the adoption of this law we cannot expect that honey and milk will flow because simply all these changes should be looked at in some context of change and other laws. Here in front of this assembly were the amendments to the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and all those things that are being brought here, I think they're improving the system. There is no doubt that the future in digitisation is strongly present in our judiciary, electronic communication between the parties. Tomorrow we're going to have the Law on Land Books where the same things are being proposed and all this is coming together, I would say to a better system in the judiciary, but as a society, we're going to have to do something, detect those places where these objects are being created. So the judiciary doesn't produce objects, these objects are created by various segments. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club supports both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116466	Thank you. Mr. Michel Jaksic Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116467	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Good afternoon, everyone. On behalf of the SDP Club, I must say, at the very beginning of my debate, that at the first reading, we were abstentions and that we have made it clear that we also expect through the debate in the first reading, but also through the discussion and preparation of the second reading to answer some legitimate questions that have arisen on both the Justice Committee and the consultation with the interested public, and also through certain expert organisations where certain questionnaires have been asked how to do better, differently, more transparent. I have left my word transparently for the very end of this introduction for the simple reason that whenever we talk about legislative changes concerning the judiciary and the situation in the judiciary we must always start from that starting point, not now entering a deep debate as much as guilty, but you have admitted that in these 30 years, the perception of the work of the Croatian judiciary has absolutely collapsed, and that simply year after year, and now not only of research agencies and media agencies in the Republic of Croatia but also of the European Commission when they are carrying out their barometer of trust in the judiciary that trust is either bad or going up, we have never moved from the bottom of the EU table when we are discussing perception, the confidence of the citizens of this country in the judicial system. There are many factors that have contributed to this, for many of these factors it is a false policy, I mean now a primary national policy which, or simply, has calmed down some things and has not wanted to clear them up, or in some other situations, unfortunately, has allowed some fugitives across the border, some outdated, some major collapse of some major investigations due to the shooting of measures, and there have never been any clear answers to why it is so and why it all happened, regardless of how long the media story has been created that the story will end exactly that way. In these situations, it may mean a lot that they have found themselves responsible, that the guilty have found themselves and that there has been a slight turn of that impression that there are still no equal and equal and that still in Croatia sometimes large fish or some who are at some point politically similar cannot just run away in front of justice. But this happened, over this spilled milk, we can't cry all the time, just perception is what it is, and it will take us a long time to change it for the better, and that we can say that Croatia is at least in the middle of trust, and then obviously the quality of the work of the judiciary itself in the EU. What I would like to point out, and even today, several times in these discussions, that there is a system overload, it is clear, the ministry's representatives also say, the Supreme Court's representatives led by the president himself, the presidents of all courts, and it is definitely that few countries in the EU have such inflation and such an increase in cases, and then, of course, this is reflected in unresolved cases. And what is one of the first initiatives that has come from us, by the President of the Supreme Court, is not yet in any form that could be translated into law, that it is very problematic and very important to finally clarify that the behaviour of the state bodies or the institutions of public authorities will be because we do not lie a lot, very much of the disputes we have in the courts have partly stemmed from some property relations and in most of these property relations are involved by entities whether public companies, whether public institutions. I can now say as mayor that sometimes it's really amazing why we go with people to court where we're literally dealing with a few squares of a country, some hedges, because we just don't have until the end worked out tools either through court practice or through some arbitration, which Mr. Dobrinić suggested to clear up a lot of things before the court itself because that court takes both time and money, especially if we know that many times in this situation some people who may not have a great material condition are found. This would make a lot of difference if we didn't have in any changes to the legal sets of the hearing both by the judges' association and by the people who work in the state's attorney's office, sometimes police and other investigative authorities can be involved to simply expect too much from them, that they are so crowded that they fail to solve everything. There are judges who don't do their job with honor. But we must admit that there are also a lot of people in the system and the police and the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary who do their work extremely honorablely, extremely correctly and extremely constructively. We need to help these people and facilitate the tools they have in their hands, not that we need to withdraw some resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from Brussels as soon as possible, and we are printing laws for which we have a lot of comments and a lot of questions. We all agree that the direction is good and that we want to go in this respect all of us, but always remains to hang exactly that "but" in the air. Why are we breaking over our knees? Why aren't we doing a step-by-step? Why aren't we doing a step-by-step? Why don't we finally do everything that we've all detected together that the problems in the Croatian judicial system are? If we are talking about the DSV and DOV Act here, we must also point out that there have been a lot of obstacles so far in the work of both DSV and DOV, that we have had several and large affairs as people have progressed or have been chosen, that many times this has, of course, won the scent of politics at the end of the day and therefore any change that will at least improve something is something we can say that, that's ok. But unfortunately, these amendments to the DSV and DOV Act still leave a lack of questionnaires and about the very future advances and about how this whole process will be implemented and what is mentioned and in consultation with the interested public, that if we go in this direction, we should take a few more steps to make this system publicly available where possible, to be transparent, and not to continue to revolve the perception that it is not so much work at the end of the day, so important neither profession, but it is important that at some point political distribution of the decks of cards, will it be in the State Judicial Council, is it in the State Judicial Council? It's something where we just didn't get answers this time. As we are now changing a bunch of these laws regarding the judiciary, and we all agree in the debates that when we talk especially about the State's Attorney's Office that we should also allow these people better working conditions and better work infrastructure and better pay for even having motives to work in this system. And we all agree on that, but we can't get to that level of debate yet to say yes, that's what we're going to do. And again, we have a lot of changes concerning the State's Attorney's Office, their rights, their obligations, some of the obstacles we put before them but we are constantly running away from that fundamental debate how to motivate the highest quality people in the Croatian judicial system to go to work at the State's Attorney's Office because it is an important branch. And we have a lot of quality people there, too, but with a lot of things we're going to be in a situation where there's going to be a continued trend that these very best-quality people are leaving the state's attorney's system. And what I would leave behind is the biggest opposition in the SDP club and, unfortunately, they have not responded to either the consultation with the interested public or the replica I have set up here today, and we are constantly running away from that answer as to why in the amendments to Article 51. The Law on the State Judicial Council, paragraph 2, amends the very structure of the sentence and states that for the Judge of the Municipal Commercial and Administrative Court, a person who has graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials and who is not acting in a judicial capacity may be appointed. So, the people of the State's Attorney's Office will definitely not be able to report to the judge's competition anymore. It's discriminatory. I don't think that's it. I'm not taking over the role of the Constitutional Court, but Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, everyone freely chooses to call and hire, and every job and duty is available to everyone under equal conditions. It's interesting about the state's attorney's office, it's about the courts, and we're quoting the Constitution on amendments to the law and we're asking if it's in line with that. The answer given is that the desire is to obtain the best quality, best or everything in the answers and to consult the interested public, as well as in today's debate. But then the question arises if we're looking for the highest quality, best why we're going to delete and eliminate some who are already working in that system of automation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116468	You, too. Mr. Zeljko Sačić, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116469	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected secretary of state with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Here again we have this text, the texts of the final laws, and regardless of the fruitful and constructive criticisms that we have from the opposition, waved at us from the opposition, believing that they would improve the overall system of functioning of our daily judicial practice. A large number, however, did not accept it, and yet you remained stubborn about certain provisions that cannot give us confidence that such a legal framework would indeed guarantee one of the objectives that you set out in these amendments in the future. For example, we will re-absorb this, that this threshold that speaks to honor, about credibility, about expertise, about the dignity of a judicial officer was that he was a state attorney or a judge, and if there are doubts that are sufficient to launch a criminal procedure for the crimes that you have even predicted here, for which a sentence of 5 years of imprisonment and more is intended for us this is quite disturbing. First of all, we agree that the presummation of innocence has its own, but the presummation of innocence is not wrong to interpret it is, in any case, the greatest achievement in a concrete criminal procedure between an individual and a judge, that is, according to the Criminal Procedure Act. ... In accordance with our legal theorists, our top scientists, criminal procedural legal thoughts and should not be interpreted so widely, especially in this case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, what, why would I be judged by someone who is, who is suspected of committing a crime or an offence that makes him in itself unworthy? It's not about traffic crimes, traffic crimes, and insecure categories, but there can be a whole dozen different criminal acts, criminal acts, and I don't want to see a judge who's got tails behind him, not to say anything else, and even less I want to be sued by a state attorney who's not clean, clear as a tear on all the elements. After all, our officers are rightfully punished and suspended for much, much less of this done stupendous acts, for example, not criminal, not criminal, or punitive acts, so it needs to be harmonised and it is quite appropriate or explained. Likewise, in art. 56.c of the DSV Act in this proposal you made, you say the wording that the Council's decision will explain the choice of a judge if it chose between several candidates who have the same number of points, but then, that's logical, is it, but then you go one step further and you say you'll give that same explanation if you choose a candidate, be careful now, which has a smaller number of points than that. I'd like you to explain it to me now, the whole structure, I used to be a high school professor, and I was very careful who, which and how these students must answer in these written knowledge checks and oral tests and the one who wrote the test, was clearly objectively that it had reached its peak, from what that professor had set up for me. If we have a peak of 150 points in writing, 20 years in writing and means I don't know, we have 170 points and now we have to choose a man, a hardworking, professional, smart, who scored 170 points than the one who scored 165 points, but because that's what the Council thinks he is. So what are we testing these people for, what are we harassing them for, so explain it, why? So these are these neural points, there are of course now, we don't go into details, but this is, and we're going to commend your initiative that it's a good thing that you brought it in, even though I say it, questionably, many of them won't sit well that you've introduced, for example, psychological testing. In fact, we'll be clapping for our own, because of the miles I come from, clapping that security checks should work and we believe and we hope and we must do everything we can to make sure there's no abuse, and there can be no such big abuse, actually no space for why the Council estimates what SOA brings to them on a table on a concrete candidate. She didn't say SOA if we think this candidate should be eliminated, this should be extended, we're restrained here but objectively delivered by facts, and the Council has a responsibility to say, listen, you're really not worthy, so you're a member of the Mason, you're a member, I don't know who, some of these twisted cults, or I don't know who or you're close to some anti-constitutional values that promote and we're not going to choose you, and that's good. It's okay. Therefore, we will remain restrained and this time in the hope and expectation that you will fix it if you do not fix anything. The property cards, of course, need not only this periodic renewal but also need to be checked, for that is the purpose of the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116470	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116471	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your honors and for your representatives. I often say that the end of the HDZ state will not come as soon as HDZ is removed from power, but when the formation of the institutions designed by HDZ is changed, justice institutions and bodies within the justice system have a special weight. The DSV and DOV, in view of their powers, roles, tasks, given the fundamental role of recruiting judicial officials, so state attorneys and judges, control of their work, and then monitoring their exit from the system is of real importance, it should be the spine, the spine of the judiciary. This way, DSV and DOV are not such a spine, but is a simple spaghetti with which, with such changes and additions, executive authority conducts and drags them in the way they fit. We've never had a well-designed system before, and I'm sorry that when the SDP had the chance, it didn't essentially change that, and now, under the conductor bat of the HDZ, that system is further collapsing. We put the last nails in a case of judicial independence the moment we introduced security checks on judges and state attorneys. I have long advocated that these two bodies should therefore be reorganised by the DOV and DSV in a way that changes the composition and membership first and foremost, that we remove from the existing 11 members of the same council two parliamentary representatives sitting in those bodies, as well as two university professors, and that those judges and those state lawyers who will act as members of this body, and perform their functions in full capacity professionally, and not in some quota of their basic duty, in order to actually carry out their tasks in a way to see results. The results aren't really there right now. Look at the number of tight procedures, look at the number of allegedly verified property cards, read for the start of the report, reports that the check of state attorneys' property cards will be established when the conditions are obtained only as soon as possible and easier to welcome Godot than to meet these conditions. So, in short, I'm going to explain and try to indicate the basic idea of amendments that I have submitted to these two laws. First of all, since it is not intended to change body structure through changes and additions, wherever candidate points are mentioned, whether they are state lawyers or judges, I suggest that parliamentary representatives and university professors do not participate in the score. Here's with all due respect to those MPs who have some legal knowledge, like that, I don't think these others really should be involved in that content of checking how the law imagined it. Namely, if we don't want our indictments to fall into court because we don't need to forget the numerous charges where the naked eye from the plane was visible that the man was guilty, let's imagine some serious corruptive crime has fallen for procedural reasons because the indictment wasn't drawn up properly, so the public is angry because we have a criminal on the loose because we have alienated funds from the state budget that will never be returned and we have spent state resources on a process that has been going on for a long time, and everything has fallen because the indictment wasn't put together properly. To draw up an indictment act is one of the biggest challenges for any lawyer, however much he is. And what are we doing? What kind of state is that, I ask you, and where does that lead? And with what right do we even expect the results of the state's attorneys if in this recruitment system we come up with that the indictment act, here's a legal action which, in the process of verifying legal knowledge by the council in the tendering calls for recruiting new state attorneys, designed the quality of this act to be checked here in a specific case are Hasanbegovic and Armina Lekai Prljaskaj? I mean, it's hard for me to choose words and refrain from saying something vulgar, something offensive, something simple, but I think it's something vulgar, offensive, and it can simply be said by any citizen if and how many of them there are who are listening to this debate right now, but it's our fact state, that's what doesn't change, even when HDZ loses elections and some other option comes to power. So I call on absolutely everyone who thinks with their own head and who wants Croatia well, who wants us to move one step forward, to take the first next step on these issues into account, to start changing the course of institutions. These are not easy tasks, I understand that we also need greater public democratic control of both the judges of the state's attorneys and the supervision of the work of those authorities who control them, so concrete supervision of the work of the DSV and the DOV. But this can be achieved in other ways, for example, by making sure that we have a mandatory public recording, the public in those interviews and conversations with the candidates, not optionally, can't be achieved if they are willing but mandatory so as to convince the public why a candidate got 10, 15 or 20 points and why DOV or DSV in that score list is now having that 15-point tolerance threshold between the best and the one he has chosen to see what these reasons are that other anti-candidians can convince themselves that someone who deserves the advantage, here is one small level. Furthermore, security checks. I was against their introduction, I think it's heavy abuse and manipulation and killing the independence of the judiciary because security checks are dictated by the executive authority and will always abuse them for the wrong purposes and the wrong methods. But now that I have the law as it is, then I suggest that it be mandatory to introduce that the safety checks are available to candidates or that information can be obtained that the security check has identified and the reasons why there is a decision to make security obstacles to the appointment exist. As it is now imagined the council will say there is a security obstacle. What, what, what does it come from? Nobody knows, doesn't know the candidate, doesn't know the candidate. Do you know what this means in practice? In a justice system that is networked with family and other relationships and which is lobbying for different candidates. And I will return to what the proposing representative said when I warned that Hasanbegovic could not check whether a candidate has drawn up a good indictment or a good proposal for an investigative prison. He said, but his role there is negligible, it's irrelevant because we have seven other professionals. So why is Hasanbegovic sitting there in the first place asking you? He sits and sits second because I can lobby for a candidate, because as council members, they say a security obstacle, a security obstacle. So if we don't allow the candidates to access the data, how some information about them has been collected at all, which compromises them, we've actually given the authorities' tools in the judiciary to use security checks to eliminate quality competition compared to the one for which someone else lobbys. And lastly, instead of security checks, we needed to strengthen the property card verification system. Unfortunately, neither when it comes to officials nor when it comes to these judicial judges or state lawyers, the system of property cards in our system is at all understood as a concept. Although property cards are primarily a means of maintaining integrity, increasing public confidence that by seeing someone's property card can get an impression of this person's intensity is to control the beginning and end, the urgency is to see if someone has used a public function for wealth that does not result from legitimate incomes. So, the point of checking the property cards isn't in that administrative check that you listed all the properties that the land books say you have, but it's the point of checking what you paid that property with. Such a system, such a model does not exist in Croatia yet. Not for us politicians, not for the judges, not for the state's attorneys. What the IRS is doing is controversial and insufficient and does not represent an entirely imagined system. The amendments that I have proposed at least partially correct this lack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116472	You, too. Mrs. Sandra Bencic, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116473	I thank the chairman. So for starters, I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading. So, I think the starting point of the overall reform should be this, which is that of these 27 countries, on the issue of citizens' trust in the independence of their judiciary, Croatia is just the last. So it's just the last 27. It is not only that we are the last to trust citizens in the independence of our courts, the problem is that this mistrust has grown from 60 to almost 80% of citizens who believe that their judiciary is not independent in the past few years. And if the aim of the reform was to resolve at least one of the three reasons why citizens feel that the judiciary is not independent, and one of those three reasons is exactly the environment of law, so the legislative framework within which judges and state lawyers act then the proposals that are in these two laws that we are discussing today should have gone in the far opposite direction. That's what my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about, and I'll do it again. So if you have a situation that 80% of citizens do not trust you in the independence of judges because of political pressure, because of the pressure of stakeholders and because the legislative framework within which they operate and the way they choose is not good, then how do we increase these provisions to 20% of the impact of the interview. So, some assessment of members of the State Judiciary Council about what kind of candidate he is. So we increase the impact of an interview that is actually an assessment and cannot be fully objectively measured. But when you can't measure and increase that percentage objectively, then you didn't at least prescribe mandatory transparency or video transmission and the availability of these interviews so that the public could see it. This also applies, for example, to procedures, strict procedures, so before the State Judiciary Council. The other thing that we have in this, which is especially me, is that by this law, we prescribe that he is strictly responsible if he refuses the SOA's security clearance. So, by law of the courts, you've prescribed that every five years judges go for a security check. By this law you prescribe that they must not be denied, they must deny consent to that verification. So if the shorts are punished. Well, that's what I think it is, so you understand what it is, so it's courting. And I'm going to show you another graph now, and that's a graph showing which of the countries has regular repeated security checks for their judges throughout Europe. So again 27 countries, just the Republic of Croatia. So, only Croatia has repeated security checks for its judges. Some countries, most countries have no security clearance at all for judges, some countries have checks that work on an explicit request and that when a candidate for a judge, the judge is first elected to the judge, but later on, of course not. For example, Hungary has this, that the judge passes a security check when accessing certain classified documents he has in the case, okay, but only our judges throughout the EU pass every 5 years security checks by SOA. And now let's do a little bit of what it looks like. So, the Security Intelligence Agency whose director is elected by who, is elected by most of the ruling. So we have the director of SOA, we have employees of SOA who are doing a background check, and they find him a certain obstacle. Do they have to explain that obstacle, do they have to substrate to you all the evidence that they have collected and on what grounds they have concluded that there is an obstacle, what kind of explanation SOA writes? I'll tell you what kind of reasonings are sent to the administrative court and that the court has already said several times that they have to write arguments, so they either don't write or write in two sentences, but it's not just that. Tell me how likely it is that some judge will not give in to the pressure if he knows that because of what he did or did not do next time he will not pass the security check, that it will act on the judges the fact that no one has told them, but that they know that there is this possibility, how it works on the judge, and that there is a reason that only Croatia of all EU member states has decided every 5 years. Control your judges and what, what is there, what did the Association of Croatian Judges say? On the contrary, they asked the European Judges' Association to draw up an opinion. The association, the European Association of Judges, believes that the security verification of all judges in time intervals is not in line with international nor with European standards, that such a measure is not necessary for national security, and that such measures are, in full contrast with the principle of guaranteed continuity of the judicial duty, which is a key element of the independence of the judicial authority, thus the European Association of Judges says. The Venice Commission also said that, in their opinion, they pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia, existing legislation already foresees a wide range of mechanisms for ensuring the integrity of judges, so that we have property cards, that we have assessments of the president of courts, that we have a strict and criminal procedure and that they are not convinced of the necessity to introduce an additional new mechanism such as a security check for all judges every 5 years. They also consider the questionable reasons for the reform because according to the Ministry of Justice a high level of perception of corruption in the judiciary, some individual cases of misbehaving of judges are the reason for the introduction of security checks and are not certain that these reasons can justify such a far-reaching measure, so the Venice Commission tells you that this is a far-reaching measure such as the periodic security check of all judges by the security services. So Minister Malenica asked the Venice Commission for that opinion, but for some reason, Andrej Plenkovic did not allow him to wait for that opinion and on the basis of it also made the Law on Courts and these two laws already hurried him to push it out because what, the judge should have been even more cooperative and that's what we get additional to this law because now not only will he go for checks every 5 years. but if they accidentally refuse it, then they will be punished, you understand what it is, what it is a feedback. And in all of this we have the SOA that I was talking about this morning, so here's who's going to check our judges, the SOA whose head of the SOA chief's office has millions of real estate businesses with the owner of the PPD, with the former SOA director and some other politicians, for example, from the Homeland Movement. And here are the people who are head of the agency who are going to check our judges. So, the head of SOA's office has an apartment in Zagreb worth money none of you will, I mean none of you, at least I hope they're honest, you won't even see if you live out of pay. They're people who'll check every five years. Our judge, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116474	Thank you, too. The gallery was awarded students and students and their mentors and mentors in the projects "Bio security and bioprotection". There's a lot more of them than we are down here, you can get up because you deserve it, let's give them a round of applause... Thank you for coming here today and for being with us, thank you, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, who will have her individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116475	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. How in well-organised functional societies where there is both an effective and truly independent judiciary to which the public is trusted by judges, above all by the internal control system. Each branch should in some ways establish its criteria of dignity, professionalism, standards that some officials expect. For example, ethical codes serve, and in our legal system there are ethical codes for judicial officials, there are also bodies that implement them, what does not exist, there is no built culture of integrity within the judiciary itself. The whole system is actually set upside down starting with the relationship between the executive and the judiciary as such. If we look at it, and even in this law there's something talking about it, one of my amendments solves that question, which the Minister of Justice does in relation to judges and state lawyers. In our system, the Minister of Justice intervenes in a lot of things, delivers a lot of regulations, prescribes a lot of methodologies, interferes in the work of every single judge or state attorney, and the relationship should be different. The Minister of Justice, as part of the executive authority, should only be in charge of the judge and state attorneys asking the gentlemen dearly how many resources, how many finances, how many technical conditions, to whom the roof leaks, who has an old computer, if there are enough staff, what are the salaries of the notaries and other people working in the system. It's the role of the executive and justice minister. That and nothing else. And possibly, on the basis of information and knowledge, it draws up proposals for future laws. But not to control, not to control. And we have exactly the opposite. So here, too, we have a methodology for the evaluation of judicial advisors and state's attorneys to be prescribed by the Resort Ministry, which is what needs to be removed. The moment it moves away, when the judges are sent a message that they themselves are managing quality within the judiciary they will also hesitate to resolve these ethical dilemmas, and they are terribly important. We need to send a message to our judges and state lawyers that the system protects them from the moment they enter to the moment they leave the system and give them the opportunity to trust the public. And this will be achieved in a way where they themselves, through their decisions, ethical decisions, strict procedures and others, say which behaviour is not tolerated for one state attorney or for one judge within the branch. So, the brand, judges and state lawyers have to start building more standards inside themselves and insist on them. And for anyone who does not find himself or anyone who finds himself in an inappropriate situation and tells one another among us is no longer a place. That's the way. What has been tried or planned to do with these amendments to the law is the diametrically opposite path that will further weaken citizens' trust, and make judges more corrupt and vulnerable to these fine ethical standards because imagine instead of building ethics so that the ethics is removed from the system if you are not up to it, this law introduces the possibility that someone who has committed a stupendous offense that has been imposed on him by sanctions away from duty or discharge from duty, so man has done something to be expelled from the system, and these amendments and additions to the laws are said, and we will give him a conditional conviction, conditional on, a conditional conviction. Which means we're going to give him a trial period, so if for the next 2-3 years or as long as he doesn't repeat such a crime, then we're going to pretend like nothing happened. So it's breaking standards inside the judiciary to the bottom level. And that bottom, which fortunately even the Croatian judiciary has not fallen yet, but it will fall under the conductor's baton of HDZ. For the smallest offense, standards should be such that such a person is not welcome, tossing out upside down and shut the door forever, and not to be explicitly allowed to place those with strict convictions and can continue to be a place in such a judiciary. Such a judiciary only suits HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116476	Mrs. Katarina Nemet, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116477	Thank you. Dear colleagues of these amendments and the law may mean that the DVS can impose a strict measure of non-compliance with the norm that I have talked about before and what you are all talking about not agreeing to carry out the judge's security check, so I will only take the opportunity to read what the commission of Venice recommended to our government on this matter. The Commission is concerned about the risk of such a measure and recommends that Croatian authorities reconsider their approach to the regulation of periodic security checks on all judges and develop an alternative strategy for ensuring the integrity of judges and on the basis of other existing mechanisms. Please comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116478	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116479	Thank you. The alternative strategy should be to establish a real system for checking property cards and to increase discipline in tighter procedures, which means more of these procedures, and also to increase the number of those ethical and educational measures. Security checks on the first time need to be removed from the system, but here as long as they exist with the amendment, I suggest that the decision on the existence of security barriers must be reasoned but the candidate must also be given the opportunity to have insight into the documentation and evidence on the basis of which such a decision has been taken and against that decision, so against the decision on the existence of security obstacles must be allowed to the possibility of a administrative dispute. So there must be control over what the SOA did. Otherwise, we simply made the judges easy to blackmail with information that only the executive authority has.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116480	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116481	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Dalia, I don't know, I just don't have to ask you directly, I don't know why you're against these security checks so much. Why are you against it? And you and Mrs. Bencic... Why are they afraid of that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally went through a couple of these security checks while I was in the defense system and nothing happened to me. We've also been filling out the property card for years now, and we're also doing just fine. I don't see why. They say no country has that in the EU. Well, no country in the EU has passed the Homeland War. Each country has its specifics, has the freedom and the right to sort out its own relationships in some way. So I don't see why you're so afraid of it. The good part of the people in the judiciary are people who have worked and in that still former state, etc. And why now someone's afraid of that security check like it's this thing right now, I don't see here, you can explain a little why.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116482	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116483	: Between checking property cards and security checks as two different tools is the sky and country difference. Security checks undermine the system of judicial independence. Namely, property cards except for the fact that they're public in themselves have one procedure that can be controlled. The correctness of the procedure can be controlled whether it has been legally implemented and the quality of each individual evidence of a security check can also be controlled. So now we have proceedings even in front of the Constitutional Court where people proved it was Kafkin's trial. I do not want a blackmailing judge by the executive authority of Andrej Plenkovic, nor the president of the state, because they are the ones who manage security services. One judge can be a questionable example of what's right here being gay. He didn't do anything illegal about it. It won't make his decisions less quality or corrupt, but it doesn't want to be made public. Maybe his mom's Catholic and he's against it, and with that kind of information, SOA can blackmail him. That's what this is about. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116484	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116485	A little bit off this topic, but you've encouraged me to discuss security checks and I can understand your tendency and purpose. But my question to you is, and since you come from this system and you know very much how it works, you have a lot of experience why on the other hand we have now a debate that was initiated by the President of the Supreme Court Mr. Dobrinić, where judges or representatives of the judiciary run away from discussing who, when and how much more they do outside of their regular work from arbitration to the development of various lectures, workshops and that I do not now list all the opportunities we have to hear and read.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116486	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116487	I thank you for this truly quality question. I fully support the direction that Radovan Dobronic has taken. The questions he has asked all judges should be a standard in itself that implies that judges will answer these questions and that the answers to these questions will be available to the whole public. Part of the judges object, because they're part of the skeletal structures. I even believe that one part of them, the moment he got all those arbitration, the extra jobs, the lectures, didn't even think he was doing anything wrong. But it's that sneaky, quiet, underground system with which HDZ buys its power, its branches of power. He has his own ways of buying chips, he has his own ways of buying ministers, he has ways of buying candidates in the mayoral elections, but he also has ways of buying judges. One of these ways is with additional luxuriant jobs. They are not in themselves corrupt, but fit to be where it is warm, where it's shared. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116488	Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I believe that our judiciary is actually a patient in one terminal phase of treatment and that these two final proposals of the law are actually pure apaurin or andol in that treatment except for strengthening the ethical system in the judiciary. What do you think would be drugs for the rapid recovery of our judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116490	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116491	Thank you. I don't think these laws are apaurin or any medicine. I think they're toxin, I think they're radioactive. To that extent, I think that this damages the justice system, and the right path would be to change its structure, to change the structure of the bodies in charge of the internal control of that judiciary. By doing so, I am referring to the composition of the State Judicial Council and to the composition of the State Attorney's Council, which should remove parliamentary representatives, university professors, and oblige members to work at full capacity, to come to work in the morning, to work all day on property card checks and to seek someone's disciplinary responsibility. So, to check the system on the inside and devote their full work engagement, not to work at 20, 30, I don't know how much of their other professional duties. Here's the beginning, zero point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116492	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116493	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, and in the tail itself in the apartment, I said the position of the State Attorney's Council and the Fate Council should be the cornerstone of the equality of all in the judiciary, so that when I look at what I said was essentially the biggest mistrust of the people in the Republic of Croatia, 95% is the judiciary, meaning what affects economic development, emigration, demographic politics, everything that is worst. And the judiciary has mirrored democracy, in fact justice, although justice in Croatia is a distant word. I'd just like to mention a few important things here. I don't get it. I mentioned it myself, and my colleague Sacic talked about it saying that those who are being prosecuted up to five years for crimes of crime or crimes up to five years can suspect it, and in law enforcement, we can be persecuted by the State's Attorney's office. So that part doesn't make sense to me. That's not that part of equality. It's the same thing that we say that all these ministers who were that could have been up to five years either, or I don't know any of us, that he shouldn't have been, that he was supposed to stay here and do his job. I would just point out that speaking about the judgments of experience with people with whom I speak uniform court practice is one of the major problems, I don't know how much the council can affect the fact that they are controlled in essence, that they are equal judgments in one court or another but we have the same cases, and we have different judgments and then even in the appeal deadlines in the higher cases it stays that way. And that's very important. Unfortunately, our judiciary sees what happened around Zdravko Mamić that the man who ran into another country essentially became a justice tailor, in fact, he's basically sending a message to the judiciary, I don't know how much state's attorney, the DSV can act on it, but I don't understand that in the Republic of Croatia after 30 years. We still have resistance to, not resistance, but we have the influence of policy on attorneys. Here I can say that it's unclear to me today what the Prime Minister said, but sooner or later we'll be back in the previous Saucha case, it seems to me that even the press was held together by a former state attorney with the prime minister in the government or some other case, I can't sit down, something was, I know that he was together then, and in this last case I don't even know the phone, he didn't call, I think I know that we should cooperate, but the question is whether this cooperation came in a way to say who to arrest, in which way, which way, and that's the perception of people in the Republic, is obvious that this is how this works. I would say here once again that the judiciary is in a very difficult, very difficult situation, so we can look at these referendum initiatives, although this is about the constitutional court, that the messages that are on their own, I don't know, we now see changes to the constitution, are also sent a message that we need to predetermin what can be predetermined in the referendum, the tribunal on this is decided by Branko Bačić, Vladimir Sheks, together with his godmother, I don't understand what this is all about, instead of talking about today as a referendum on what is positive, whether it's okay with it or not, we're questioning all the processes of democratic, and we're talking about democracy, here is clearly inequality. I remember coming here and the President of the Supreme Court of the former Djuro Sesa, we know everything that happened together, we know that just at this point people don't trust the judiciary, not at this point, but constantly, how to bring it back, which is now a key question, from unequal, unequal practice to clientelism, corruption within the judiciary, within the DORH, these are the things to be answered by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116494	Are you done, is that a break or are you done? It's over, it's over, it's over, it's over. [[Clip incursion: Done]] Thank you, thank you for warning me, I haven't seen it. Mr. Zekanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116495	Dear colleague Bulj, here I want to hear your comment like this from a little time-out on the affair of former chief state attorney Drazen Jelenić, who left the place because of public pressure because he was a masseuse, allegedly a masseuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116496	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116497	And apparently the free builders of this without a mystium agree the judiciary, in this case the state's attorney's office. It's an amazing thing that such people can go to the highest function in one former body such as the state's attorneyship, obviously the masseary is deeply subdued in all structures and judicial and political and parapolitical, media and all structures, so I don't know at all how this explains that one elite, one group of people working on the basis of hierarchy, I don't know why I haven't yet gotten so far into these mass freedoms of masonry things, although I do know how to deal with masonry and agree well with blocks, but in that part, as they agree structures in the state's attorneyship, I don't know that no one has been responsible for it until today, but it seems to me that he stayed working in the state's attorney's office, but I guess the triba as one free builder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116498	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, it's your turn now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116499	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about DOV, the DSV. I'm already in two replicas actually saying what I was thinking, but now I'm going to say a little bit more in detail even though the secretary of state said that this law really shouldn't define it, but it's not possibly burning today because it's extremely connected. If we remember about three years ago. The affair of all affairs in Croatia was a membership, reportedly Mr. Drazen Jelenić's membership in the Masonic settlement, today in HS, although we are talking about the state's attorney's office did not speak. It was a topic, I think, three weeks was a top topic in the Croatian political space, in public space. And now what is crucial, first of all, I will not say that it is my fault that Drazen Jelenić is no longer in that place, but I am glad, but what man has done is whether a man is a member of an organization and where it writes that he must not actually be a member of that organization, or which we have put on the list of any unwanted, unsuspecting organizations at all. That's pretty interesting. I would say wrongly here, but I would be brave enough to write it down somewhere, meaning in some law, maybe the law on the state's attorney's office that exactly organizations, and maybe even explicitly have to be, be on that blacklist or in which organizations can't be the attorney general. And as for membership, and I'm just going to pull one small parallel tied to us MPs, which, by that, is subject to and, subject to the main state attorney, it's a property card. There is a small section in the property card that says membership, membership, so let's say that we are members of the not-knowing Littlefooted Club, the Protection Society here I am personally the Sibenik Heritage Juraj Dalmatinac, the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers Bishop Srecko Badurina, but I did not put one important thing, I am a member of the same very important organization, and it is called the Catholic Church, and I became a full member of my own crisis that I have already brought to the attention of a recently mature fellow consciously. I think that we should introduce a practice that both membership in this organization and similar organisations to put in the property card or that in some way in the questionnaires in the competition that will be called tomorrow for the main state attorney, the question is whether you are a member of an organization and the one in the fus note explained, so don't forget membership in some church organizations, religious and some of these organisations that I don't know what category you'd put in, dark or half-dark organizations. Okay. That would be so much about that subject, just as much as I'd like it to be that I think fellow Petrov talked like this with a lot of grammar, but okay, he likes a little drama, I'll say a quieter tone. It would be good if tomorrow's assessment of state attorneys were as objective as possible and that the interview that I think is good to see whether someone is normal or not, when it's too obvious to be as much as possible to be the main criterion and not to be determined, so let's say that I put it in such an elimination is something missing in your head or not missing, and then everything else does a lot of the objective type tasks that the evaluation is objective and not subjective. Here's so much on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116500	Mr. Arsen Bauk replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116501	You mentioned the former chief of state lawyer Jelenić correctly, you asked your colleague, Bulj, and I think you actually asked a very, very good question. I'll try to make my point. Mr Jelenic, the chief state attorney, was elected by the parliament, so the political body in a public procedure and a public debate, and I believe that the fact that he kept his mouth shut in the debate in that organisation is exclusive, that he failed the trust of those who chose him is why he was removed. However, should he remain as a state's attorney, it is already a question of doubt, and if the law is not prescribed and forbidden, then he should remain. And if you followed the Supreme Court several times returned that decision to the DOV, so that's one thing to prescribe, is it really can be whether religious commitment is an obstacle, sexual commitment is an obstacle, which is what it is Croatian, Catholic and state attorney by these criteria... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116502	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116503	Dear colleague Bauk, thank you for the replica. I wouldn't go as far as you did, I'd stay only on this part that I said although there are some not on my right conservative side but on your side that some more things are being put, but okay wouldn't talk about it. But okay, according to your explanation, he's not his crime is not what he was a member of the masseuse but what he denied that information was he? If such a political responsibility is due to the denial of key information should be borne, although I cannot help but suspect that he has been removed, not because of the failure of information, but because he is a member of the association. He was elected, but now he's not in that place anymore, so here we go, now what was about that by that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116504	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk has his own debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116505	If I were just a little bit over the line, would he have been chosen if he'd said so? Maybe he would, maybe he wouldn't. As far as these legal proposals are concerned, I will stick to the DSV Act, but it can be applied analoguely to the DOV. First of all, it was strange to me that when I was elected a member of the DSV that I had to take an oath, and I was elected a parliamentary representative, and I had already taken an oath before the president of the assembly, and now I had to take it before the president of the Supreme Court elected by the assembly. So someone who basically submits a report to me should have sworn in the same text as the oath I took to be a parliamentary representative at all, let's just say why, that doesn't make any sense. Secondly, I believe that DSV sessions should be held in HS, so logistic support is provided by the government in the Ministry of Justice, and meetings should be more exposed to the public and should be held in one of the HS halls, so that they would have a kind of additional influence or public control over DSV sessions. I don't see the meaning of a secret or non-public vote at DSV sessions. First of all, those judges who want to run for a new mandate in the DSV can best describe how they voted, what criteria they had for who they voted for, which is secret, how they would then go to the next DSV elections if they couldn't talk about what they were doing, how they did, what attitudes they represented, what criteria they preferred. So, the vote is not public, when it says unpublic it means you have a ballot on which your name is written, you circle or do not circle, hand over the ballot and it is no longer published. And now I would like to actually see whether the more elected judges I voted for or voted for by Bosnjakovic would be an interesting statistical one, because if 50 judges were elected, 40 of whom were voted by Bosnjakovic, and 10 for whom I voted and let's say the 20 we voted for together, then something could be concluded and vice versa. Perhaps it was really more elected judges that I voted for than he or none of us voted for, then it would mean that the judges are independent, in fact opposed to the political caste in Croatia or vice versa, which he and I voted for, and not half of the judges. This is an interesting analysis that would actually show the human resources of judges who are in DSV and those who are not judges. And then the question of grades, I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading, whether I trust the review committee of a judicial school or myself, is a very big dilemma. So you see someone with great grades on you leaving an impression that hmm wouldn't let me run the firm if I were the owner. And vice versa, you see someone who has fewer grades, but rules matter. And now there's some balance that's okay. I guess, and that would again be a good analysis of how many times DSV skipped someone with a smaller number of points is that 90%, and then that rule that needs intervention or that's 10%, gave an exception that confirms that the rule exists, to choose those with better grades, but in some cases, in that small number of DSV has the right to do otherwise. That's what the law gave him, and that's the Constitution. And how to actually explain the collective body's decision. So, it should explain why Bauk, Bosnjakovic, Prof. Winkovic or someone else voted for someone, not someone else. How will the president explain it? Maybe he voted, didn't vote for the one who was elected, and he should sign the argument that he was the best. It's the same to me, it also seems to me to be so slightly illogically written in law. So the power of the DSV came from the law that told him you could do it. A collective, secret or non-public vote shall be decided by a number of members. Then how can you explain the decision made by the 6-5, 6 voted, so 6 voted for Peru, and 5 voted for Mata and because more votes for Peru were elected. That's one thing. So, the reasoning of the decisions, therefore, I believe that there is a little too much going on here in formalising a body that has constitutional and legal authority to do something. It is better to, that this authority constitutionally limit itself, that there are no 20 points than 10 points or that simple robots do so, so whoever has the most points, the commission you are, you are simply the law and you are the one who comes here as a postman is, just like for the election of the Supreme Court president. You have terms. You have no terms. We send them as mailmen. And one genius in the law, Mr. Secretary of State, please turn the official who turned 30,000 kunas into 3,980 and not 4,000 euros in Article 28, additionally reward for precision and mathematically such mathematical this accuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116506	Mr. Zekanovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116507	My dear colleague, if it had been circled, then they'd be grizzly about why they'd raised the price of eating, but okay, that's always the way it is. I'll agree with you about most of your debate, it would be really cool if the DSV met in the Croatian Parliament, it would be really great to have a public vote, here I have to admit that I didn't even know it was being voted in secret until a few minutes ago. But here's a question for you, would Drazen Jelinić have been elected to the Croatian Parliament if it had been known at the time that he was a member of a Masonic Lodge and how would your club vote on this issue? I'd vote against it clearly right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116508	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116509	I don't think the government would propose it at all would be exposed to too much pressure from the public if the Mason were to propose to the state's attorney. So, it would not be at all my assessment that there would be no vote in the Croatian Parliament at all because the government would not allow itself by its political decision to propose a meeting of someone who has publicly declared himself to be a member of a masseuse without at least one long-standing public debate about what is a Masonic box. And how are you going to have a public discussion about a secret organization? It's the same interesting thing. So it makes sense to me what happened. And about whether anyone can be a judicial official, judge, if he is a member of a legally registered organisation that is one debate that enters into the right of that freedom of association in human rights and should legislate and assess the constitutionality of that law so that it could not ultimately be that line that cannot be crossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116510	Thank you. Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116511	Thank you. When we talk about changes and additions of DSV from materials that have come to us about proposals, remarks and opinions of the day alone, the proposal for amending the law has resulted in a large number of objections coming from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. They oppose the renewal of security checks, they oppose norms, they oppose a number of other things that are proposed in this law. So I'm asking you why, at least on this point, we didn't have a consensus on making these changes to the law if we're talking about the trio of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116512	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116513	I take that as a union statement, here. So, that should be considered, but it's not the Holy Scriptures because no one is the judge in their affairs the best, so neither is the Supreme Court judge with all the respect I have for them. And in that sense, some things are okay, some things I disagree with but I wouldn't take as the final and lasting truth. And that's it. So, of course, those to whom the law applies as well as others can participate, but as we say about the rights of parliamentary representatives, the public has one opinion, and the parliamentary representatives of the other, as about the rights of farmers, farmers have one opinion, and the government has one opinion, as we do about the rights of the islanders, we have one opinion, and the rest of Croatia, as well as in the rights of judges, the judges can have one opinion, and all of us second opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116514	And the rest of the island, one island has another opinion from another island. Mr. Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116515	All islanders or just brothers? You have made a lot of reference to the work and functioning of the State Judicial Council with several of your findings which could be done differently to make it more transparent and open to the public and to probably contribute to the very perception of the work itself and the State Judiciary Council and perceptions of how it is progressed, and then how it is judged to make those decisions. What do you think prevents us from meeting the DSV, that the sessions are still open in a certain way, and that it is known that whoever votes at these sessions, since let's say in the assembly for any decision that she made can come to that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116516	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116517	I'd say comedity first because it's easier for me for the DSV to sit in the assembly because my DSV session would come, hold a debate and go back, and when it's in the Justice Department, it's a little harder for me. It's probably the same for the others. Then somehow journalists can come to the DSV session, but no, there's not much enthusiasm when 4 cameras and 5 journalists are announced, okay, a slightly bigger hall, etc., but I think that a lot of this would demystify the work of the DSV. So I can't remember any decisions in this DSV session that would deserve a scandalous label, there may be bad doubts, but scandalous ones are gone, for last term I'm not sure, it's now a matter of this, a matter of impression and I would really like the public to be better acquainted with the work of DSV primarily because I would be better acquainted with my work, I have the best possible opinion about my work and I would like the public to be better acquainted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116518	Okay. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116519	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the esteemed representative, alone as you said about various knowledge, here I would like to ask you something as former minister, former minister of the administration, certainly that you would like to hear the frequent arrangements of you and the Prime Minister then Milanovic, if it could be so publicly, it would be very interesting about the various situations you've been talking about, but one of the important things about Cyrillic plates and initiatives, is it your or former Prime Minister Milanovic, who gave this initiative in the mornings like when we went to action in the Homeland War, when you set those records up, was it your initiative or our president's then here I believe I personally believe it would be of interest to the general public, and now that you can be honest as a national representative or that party silence is that I don't mind you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116520	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116521	Thank you. Comrade Deur, we are going to remove the immunity of one parliamentary representative who was encouraged by the abuse, who allegedly encouraged members of the executive authority to abuse the position, and I believe that all those who asked me not to lay down Cyrillic plates under the law also encouraged me to abuse the position so that it would, in fact, be the same legal qualification for, as for a fellow Milosevic towards Mrs. Deur. Mandac. And as far as this is concerned, I don't run away from my merits, but the President of the Republic has also encouraged me to enforce, enforce the law. The law was usually the first to pass the MUP because they probably had a shift, the board's office was set up at 11 a.m. in broad daylight and today stands there just probably covered with this, and what's best turns out to be the same in the state's attorney's office and the court board was covered for a while, so it didn't know where the court was and where the state's attorney was, random state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116522	Thank you, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116523	And her, colleague Bauk, I personally highly respect and appreciate you and I must apologize in advance for asking you this question, so it is not directed against you, but against the system that you are part of, or against, the structure of the DSV, which I claim is responsible for at present there is no conditions for doing that work and the tasks that have been assigned to him, and the question is, there are 1710 judges, the DSV should check their cards, you are a member of the DSV, please describe what a specific check of one property card, one judge, and let alone how it looked to check those property cards since you are a member of the DSV, forgive Arsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116524	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116525	Thank you. You know that one, she needs to be convicted and the other one saved. You have just demonstrated how this should be applied, thanks to colleague Oreskovic. So, first of all, in the light of this bill, you will see among the remarks that have not been accepted that it is not accepted that this is done by the Commission for the conflict of interest. It was in the standards of the Ministry of Administration and it said who it was, so it would say at the request of Agent Arsen Bauk, it was the judiciary when you joined, but it would be good for you to write in the second reading of the objections in the assembly that were not accepted and who suggested them because when they came from the section of who was in the Ministry of Administration, it is written from this ministry. So, my suggestion was that this was done by a conflict of interest committee because I as a member of the DSV in these years and something as far as I'm a member, if I've calculated this correctly, I haven't once called, asked, asked, or participated in any check of any property card, or received any request from anyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116526	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116527	Here I am giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure since the MP said he didn't pass any property card checks because when I picked up the bat, I thought he wouldn't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116528	Thank you very much, thank you very much, don't explain why you're giving up, you gave up, well, thank you. Sir, we're going to final examinations, Mr. Katicic, in front of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116529	Honored chairman, colleague, secretary of state, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's where we held a certain debate on the final proposal of the DSV Act and the DOV Act. It is known that we have done a united debate which I think is very good and that these two, two legislative proposals are quite similar both in the legal and factual substrate, and I think when you do a little better analyze and one and other legislative proposals are seen certain solutions that match both the fact that both the applicant and the nomenclature and the solutions that happen afterwards. Of course, introductively listening to and arguing, of course, that these two legislative proposals challenge certain recommendations and a number of debates in society, especially in judicial circles. The Republic of Croatia has defined one way of selecting judges and state lawyers who also know other Western European countries, which means that it has formed an independent body consisting of various stakeholders and actors in a social situation, or not only of lawyers, judges and professions but also of other lines, other people who participate in the composition of an entire judicial or state apparatus. Of course, the Western European system finds and finds and finds and some other solutions, we stick to this and I think we're going in that direction which, at the end of this change and the additions are now drawing out. Like any law, it evaluates or changes the social climate, social relations change, and hence certain amendments and additions of these proposals are deserved. In particular, there have been various proposals here, but two or three basic lines that cause recommendations could be isolated. One part about transparency in selecting judges was brought out by a number of clubs in this debate. Well, here's what I think and the HDZ club, I think it might have made it very clear that it was for the transparency of the choice of all choices. In fact, in the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, although this is not prescribed on the Committee on Justice, a public transparent debate was held and as such was presented to the media and everyone had their opportunity to present a proposal for their programmes, so I think it is a very clear message that HDZ as a majority party in this assembly has said and that I think we will not give it up. As for these security checks that came up here and caused some debate during this debate, let's look out from my point of view, and I also think about the club that when you don't have some kind of prescribed variant, then you go after it, when you have it, then it's said it's not good. It seems to me that when you take the whole set and the whole vision that the legislative proposal, or these two legislative proposals, stands out, I think it goes in one good direction of comprehensiveness. First of all, I think of the possibility first of all I like the provision that's an art. 8th or where Art is changed. The 55th time, where this score threshold is changed or liberalised in several ways, the border of these points that can be achieved during the talks is shifted. It is, of course, within yourself, if you are well-resident, clearly showing that you are going in the direction that you can make the right difference and one... in that part of the interview and all the candidates, and that those who do not achieve a certain... threshold before the end is in some way and only the state's attorney or the state's attorney body does not waste time on those candidates who did not pass that first system of choice until the end. Given the times we could talk a lot, however, it is clear to you from my statement that the HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal and we will vote for it on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116530	Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic finishes in front of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116531	I thank the president. Among the roots of Croatia's problems, our political public scene in general, and even our parliamentary representatives, among other things, is that parliamentary debates are boring, tiresome, little-interested, those who speak often read the referendums and all this is so expensive that among the citizens I think there should be difficult masochists to follow at all and to get some bit out of it. So I hope this moment of dialogue between me and my colleague Arsen Bauk opened at least some eyes, at least cleared some ears. And my question to all of you is, have we finally reached the point after so many years? So the point is that we have DSVs that, among their main tasks, if we want to control the work of the judiciary, we should check the property cards of the judges. I say, let's get the MPs out of there, get the university professors out of there, professionalize the work of that judicial control body, no one hears it, and then we have a confession from one of the DSV members who says I own a card or I saw or checked. So this is the essence of the Croatian state and the root of all problems of mistrust in the justice system. And we don't change all that, so until we change the construction of the DSV construction of the DOV and we put in place control of the work of judges and state lawyers that starts with the way the assets are acquired, there's no real change. A colleague named Bauk said that he had suggested that this check be done by the commission, as someone who had raised the property card verification system in that committee on his feet, so during my term, the database of the commission was networked with all other databases of other state bodies and responsiblely hard checks of the property cards is not there either because there are no legal tools, because the legislator had no idea what the verification should contain and what it should look like and should be carried out, and in that constitutional court said that such control bodies, such as the commission, would be worth the same story for both the DSV and the DSV when one day, one year up there, we get there says, so they do not have the knowledge of that accounting, accounting to control the entrance and exit and obvious disproportionate disproportionateness that happened then. So, all that the Croatian state has been under the patronage of such a policy that has been corrupt and corrupt for the past 30 years, it is the incapacitation of the system to fight corruption at all, starting with those preventive anti-corruption tools and that is the essence. And that's why this law is not a cure, it's not an apaurin, it's not some analgesic, it's an additional shooting of toxic models whose basic structures are imagined long ago probably from the time of Vladimir Shex. With such a judiciary, we cannot go forward, with such a judiciary we cannot guarantee the constitutional and legal rights that every state would if it were a state at all, and not a case should guarantee its citizens. It is usually said that anyone entering politics should have a political goal, and then a competition for certain specific political functions is meant. You HDZ poor people can't get rid of the opportunity to rub it on my nose every time falsely, but what else would you do if I had used my former public function to break into politics. Well, here's a concrete example. When the amendments are read, read them, and my ambition is political, professional whatever you want, it's that the knowledge I have about the system how it works on the inside I use it to fight that same system to try and fix it, and unfortunately, it's the only way to change it. The Croatian Parliament, the legislative body, the laws and political will for which it is quite clear not to have it on this side of the assembly, the question is how many there are in the opposition. Because change of state isn't just a change of government, change of state is a change of course that's wrong, it's gone completely wrong and it's been misdesigned from the very beginning. Thank you. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116532	Thank you. Mr. Bauk in front of the SDP Representatives Club is also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116533	What I didn't get in the individual debate. Comrade Nemet, you asked in fact for the Supreme Court I forgot one fact. The Supreme Court voted on the opinion to elect the Supreme Court president 4 for and 27 against. It was also a little union action, so it should read what they wrote, but take with a certain reserve, a reasonable reserve. The administrative court, say counterpart Oreshkovic, is reluctant to mention it, but I am very happy to mention it, because when colleagues from HDZ object to it for a financial conflict of interest, in fact, all your decisions have been confirmed by the Administrative Courts. And now imagine the situation that you're on the application, let's say for then Minister Arsen Bauk for something you said no, I can't do that, even though the courts have already told you six times that you're right. The HDZ would attack you. And when it came for Andrej Plenkovic, and when the courts changed practice, they didn't attack the courts, they attacked you. It doesn't make sense! It means that we immediately determine whether she acted on the decisions of the courts, and the courts changed their decisions when it came to order, Andrej Plenkovic. And now you're talking about trust in the judiciary. Well, I wouldn't trust that kind of justice either. Then let's say this with the state's attorney. So the state's attorney says there's no crime in one case, and the European lawyer says there's a criminal offence in the same case. And of course people won't really believe in institutions. And now we come to what colleagues in the debate mentioned, and these are the security checks of the judges. I'm not a prior against it. It's just a question of who's checking on those who are checking, who's estimating the graders and who trusts them? For example, for example, whether the judge or any other official in his application should state that the gambler has gambling debts and, if the security service finds it true, whether it should affect someone’s appointment. It will be decided by the one who appoints, but he knew that information. It's not exclusive, but if you knew that someone you named a cube had gambling debts, and you named it not a security service, not the one who gambled, but the one who named it or deserved it. Because you can say no, that's incorrect. You in the security department lie or it doesn't matter, it's not forbidden. So is this gay mom who doesn't need to know or anyone else who doesn't need to know, I have no idea. That a close family member doesn't cheer me up for Hajduk I don't know. Now what? I mean, for example. It's either worse to sympathise HDZ now imagine the service finding out and that I, that he doesn't want to tell me. On the one hand, therefore, certain officials are exposed to the security services, only the question is whether the security services are establishing and doing so professionally to determine the truth or package. But then maybe it's better to see it exactly on cases like that, so then we know that we have security services that are packing, which is what one influences the judiciary in Alexander Rankovic's 60s or 50s. Because it's much more dangerous then. So, let's say we had this last case, colleague Oreshkovic, but today is not clear to me why this councilman of yours decided not to deal with politics? What he did to disqualify him or he just said so he could close it so it wouldn't have a bad influence on the election. But it is, therefore, in the rank of it. So when the find comes, the opinion, the diagnosis, however you want security SOAs to be, the guy who calls it can when he reads to say you're not idiots, you did it completely wrong, and I don't agree with you and I take responsibility, or can he say about this if this is true, what do you have to say about it? Get down on your shoulders and say I won't name you for it if it's true. I don't see any problem. So, I've been in these situations if you name someone, you want to know something more, you trust the institutions. And at the end of the day, it's your decision. If someone tells me I don't want to be checked and I'll take that into account and say maybe they're hiding something, and maybe they don't trust me, I'll decide. I'll be guilty or I won't be guilty. And then when the press asks you in 10 days, did you know? You can tell me whether I knew it or not, it's your fault. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116534	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, second reading, P.Z. No 266 Provisions concerning second reading apply, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate and you know it all. It's Article 266 if you want it in the papers. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the representative of the motionor Mr. Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration want to take the floor? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116572	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, you are presented with the Final Proposal for the Law on the termination of the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which has been existing in the Croatian legal system for almost 50 years. The adoption of the Law on the termination of the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures will cease to be subject to the Act on the certification of signatures and signatures, since its provision is no longer applicable, the provisions shall not apply. Since the adoption of the Public Note Act '93. the year is scheduled to stop running offices, offices and city offices, gradually with the establishment of a public record service in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a decision by the Minister of Administration on the termination of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Based on the Secretary of Administration's resolution in most of the offices and outposts of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, it ceased on 1 March 1995, and the last such solution established the termination of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions in the former Office of the State Administration of Dubrovnik-Neretva County based in Dubrovnik and set out the office in Lastovo on 7 June 2016. However, the adoption of this law had not previously been proposed because the provision of Article 16 of that law, which was now governed by the new office business regulation which came into force during 2021, remained in force. Compared to the solutions proposed by the final bill, there is no difference in what we had in the first proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116573	Thank you, too. Ma'am, I'm sorry your replica has Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116574	Thank you. Just a quick question, why have we waited so long for these amendments to the law? Is there some kind of right that may be questionable in force, and that is why we now have to pass this provision of the law after so many years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116575	Well, as I was saying in this introduction, nothing too long was waiting for 2021 to make assumptions that it would happen. Public service has taken over this social work entirely, and that is why this law is put out of force.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116576	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas for now. Do the representatives of the Committee on Law and Justice want to take this word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Bozo Petrov, a club representing the Most, we don't see him so he's losing his right. The second is Mr. Zeljko Pavić, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116577	Dear Chairman, I thank you. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I think the secretary said everything in his explanation what happened, the law is not used or put in place long before the power except in Dubrovnik and Lastovo. We also showed at the first reading, supported the law so that I can only say that the Social Democrats Club will support it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116578	Mr. Nikola Mazhar in front of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116579	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-worker and fellow parliamentary representatives, as we have heard from the proposings during this final bill, there is no difference compared to the first reading. I'm the law on the termination of the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts that he dated back in '73. and in '74, and later entered into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of point 4 of the constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia was amended and supplemented in time by the laws on manuscripts and transcriptions but also later in 1994, by the power of the Law on Public Literature when a modern public notation was established, it was therefore said that according to the graduality of the establishment of a public service in the field of the Republic of Croatia, the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts would cease to be carried out. This has been the case with time and if I just remember that the last Office of State Administration in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, based in Dubrovnik, in the exhibition of this office in Lastovo, is the last one made on 7 June 2016, shows that this law does not have any legal effect, nor legal basis anymore exist in this form. We can also say that, in order to achieve security and objective legal order, the law in question is to be completely put out of force, or to determine the termination of its validity. What we can say between the first reading and today's final proposal of the law that there were no objections in the reports of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and was supported by the adoption of this law, and also during the debate in this House when the first reading was discussed, together with amendments to the Law on Public Literature and MPs in the Croatian Parliament had no proposals and did not object to the adoption of this law. As regards the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law, there is no difference compared to the proposal for a first reading law, the HDZ Club will support the placing of the law in question out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116580	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Michel Jaksic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116581	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So everything is said in the opening part of both committees on both the first and second readings. It's just about breaking the law that was passed back in '73. As such, the question is how much more and how much more we spend and how we act and whether it makes sense, especially when we are all fighting both red tape and digitalisation, we view it as another kind of harmonisation with European norms, and therefore, as a SDP club, we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116582	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116583	Good afternoon. I'd like a little bit on the relics of the past. So here you are declared one law by the relic of the past, I would remind you, along with, that the public records established by law 1993 as a public service by amending the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions in 1994, are determined that the gradual tasks of certification will cease to be carried out by offices, offices and city offices, while the ministers of the administration have adopted solutions on the termination of the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts for offices and their offices in the area of certain counties and the City of Zagreb. So here you're talking constantly about a law that needs to be changed and replaced, so you have a bill on the termination of the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. What I want to remind you is that this Law, as well as many laws of that time, which are declared by relics of the past, established the possibility that the service of civil servants without compensation would confirm signatures and reviews, is without compensation. So if digitalisation is talked about here as that which will allow the availability of public records services, then it should be said that the availability of public records services will allow for the cost of public records services or that they are made free of charge. So here it was stressed that the introduction of public records in electronic form, the assembly of documents at a distance, the Law ensures greater availability of public notebooks, but that is precisely what it means to be a public notary was made available to the team, whether or not the relics of the past. Here it is today, talking about the Law on abortion as a relic of the past, and it seems that the relic of the past at the moment means what is the last defense against the ultra right-wing conservative offensive that we follow means in Croatia. So here and here, if we talk about public records services as available services, then this particular relic of the past is the conspiracy to make these services available. I'm just going to remind you a little bit of things, and we've had a debate quite interesting with the president of the Association of Public Libraries, the Workers' Front, as you know, has been quite critical of the public notaries and of the unreally high fees they take. We have heard from the president of their association and have determined that it is a very important socially responsible activity that public notebooks carry out and pull the parallel, meaning with totalitarian systems that have abolished them. That was a really interesting moment, so the public record president of the public record association, says there were no public records in totalitarian systems alone. The president thus pointed out that the public service was abolished during the NDH and that there was no pressure on the public service until 1995 and that, in general, in other European countries during the totalitarian regimes, and especially during the Nazi era, the pressure was strong on the public service because it did not correspond, quote, that public service exists in which all citizens can address regardless of their religious, civil, racial and other status. And then in the new Croatia, meaning that it is not totalitarian and repressive, here are our public notebooks again, but the president warns that there was a public service then completely denying that it is not a problem to access public notebooks or, let's say, what is now done here means digitisation or electronic service, but money is a problem, means how much these services cost. Otherwise, just to remind you, if you're lucky, that's where you'll pay 50 kuna for your activity, and if you inherit any real estate or any land, you'll pay 3,000 kuna. And it was that case in the open, you all read it, so the man who inherited some land, something small and had to pay 3,000 kuna. The man then went to investigate whether he was stolen in a way that the public notebook showed him, that's the tariff, that's it. Judges have come out in public that a man may have been able to contact the court because the service would be free of charge through court. We've done some research, and unfortunately it's not. Unfortunately, public notebooks really have a monopoly on this service and you have to report to the public notebook and pay 6.3,000 kuna. That's why we, Minister Malenica, have suggested that a diversification be made as to what it means to be the value of that land or property that someone inherited so that they could pay as progressive taxation. So those who have more expensive real estate must pay more, those who have cheaper real estate or land must pay less. We haven't got an answer yet, but really that rulebook means about these fees so set up that almost everyone pays the highest fee, meaning 3 thousand kuna, so, I'm just going to continue with this letter by the president of the public record association who accused us of being prone, is it, totalitarian systems because we attack public notebooks, but it's interesting that in his letter she actually admitted what this public note service was at the time of socialism. He says there were government officials at the time who said they were just certifying signatures and prints. In other words, it is a confirmation part of today's public service, but at the time they did not receive any special fees and that service was really available to everyone and this relic of the past that we are now putting on an ad act was that legislative framework that was just allowing it to be free. So what's completely irrelevant is they want to be digitized, electronic or I don't know how, if you're going to pay 3,000 kuna for any piece of land you inherited. Is it, then, not available, it is inaccessible, it is not a public service and public notation should not be called absolutely. So we, of course, have spoken, answered, but what our proposal was to the minister, I hope that this will be heard here, that the value of the clean leave for the payment of the prize is determined by the value that the legacy has at the time of the assessment, and the assessment is mostly about the value that exceeds 35 thousand kuna, which is a certain article. 6 means a rule on the amount of compensation and cost, that it may be nivelled. So if the value of the leftover exceeds the amount of 60,000 kuna, aside from the amount of compensation, 200 kuna rewards, another 100 kuna is paid for each starting 10 thousand kunas of value, but no more than 2500 kuna, so basically most of the parties pay exactly that maximum amount. Our proposal was to gradually set tariffs above the amount of 35,000 kuna and extend above the amount of 60,000 kuna, so that those who inherit more valuable properties would be charged more expensive tariffs, and those who inherit less valuable tariffs, preferably lower, we gave some of our proposal, we did not get, unfortunately from the minister's reply. We think it's unfair, so it's not the only example of injustice, is it, in that system, but certainly, people complain about it, people have serious objections to public notaries and don't consider public service to be public goods or anything that is available to everyone. So, for example, public notation is really a hypocrisy of Croatian free market advocates because they really advocate this ideology that the state rules out a group of people who can responsibly prescribe the price of their services, which no one other than them can provide, means total monopoly, where there are the benefits of competition, is, I think, if we are in that free market, if it's said that public notebooks are some kind of new form, whether, unlike those civil servants who are, the seals hit whether, for free on some counter, then where is there a free market if you have such a high tariff and fees that can't be questioned at all. So 20 kunas of state notebooks is a communist dictatorship, and 3400 kunas in the desert process for agricultural land without access route is probably the highlight of private rights and freedoms. Of course, hypocrisy is materially and interestingly justified, nobody cares about market freedoms and human rights, but rather about the faster and more efficient wealth of the minority. Therefore, what the Workers' Front advocates is that the leaven procedure should be conducted before the court, that citizens should have a publicly prescribed fee, multiplely less than they are today charged by public notebooks and the amount would have ended up being the income of the judicial system used for further investment in the system, and not in the hands of 330, be careful, the anointed ones, because indeed, by ruling them to be these anointed ones who today are rich at the expense of all of us, and where these money could be invested, so let's say, I warn that the civil servants of the county jump departments did not receive any raise for years, that the judges immediately at the beginning of the formation of these departments received a raise of 6%, and recently there was their protest before the municipal court in Zagreb. It's about people who go through constant security checks and have really miserable salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116584	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ljubica Lukačić, on behalf of HDZ representative, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116585	... A respected secretary of state with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, in fact, everything is already said, I will repeat for a short time that, that the legal assumptions for the application of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions, given that this legal matter regulated by this Law have been taken over by several other signatures, are particularly the Law on Public Literature, then the Family Law, as well as the Office Business Regulation. Therefore, in order to ensure an objective legal order, this law should be put entirely out of force. In addition to this Act, it is proposed to put outside the instructions for the implementation of this Act, since there is no more legal basis for their adoption or their validity. So as I said, given that this legal matter regulates a number of other legal regulations, this law needs to be put out of force, as well as instructions and the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-29-0.u116586	Thank you, ma'am. It's a baby doll. And we now conclude that debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Today's agenda is exhausted. Tomorrow, Thursday, June 30th, we start at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements, amending the Law on the "Croatian Children's Foundation". It's a second reading and the law is no. 200. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow. Session interrupted at 14.03 p.m.
