ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102793	On behalf of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102794	Dearly beloved, in Croatia it is 2020. Even 66.65% of ordinary pensions were below the poverty line, which proved through... The death rates of the elderly in the following year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2021. As many as 12,000 pensioners died more than usual. About the great failure of Croatia or the ruling elites leading it to 30. The existences are based on the following indicators, 1990. We had 3 employees per pensioner or almost two million employees and about 600,000 people retired. Since 1991. The number of pensioners more than doubled, so the number of employees approached the number of pensioners. In recent years, due to poverty, poor health and crown, the Republic of Croatia has recorded the unremembered death of pensioners. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the number of pensioners has dropped to a million and 232000 since the end of 2020, the number of pensioners on the last day of 2021. Thus, the total number of pensioners decreased only in the last year by about 9,000, which is the largest reduction since data are being monitored in the Republic of Croatia. The decline in the number of pensioners during 2021 was due to high mortality in the older population, so nearly 12,000 pensioners died more than the average number of deaths in the years prior to the crown last year. Due to the death of the user last year, nearly 61,000 pensions were stopped. Even the first year of the epidemic was not as fatal for the elderly as 2021 even though there was no vaccine at the time. During the whole of 2020, about 55,000 pensioners died while a year before the outbreak in Croatia died between 48 and 49,000 pensions. In two years, about 18,000 pensioners have died in Croatia more than the average number of deaths over the last few years. The increased mortality of the elderly was likely affected by the crown. In addition to the crown, the increased mortality of elderly people was likely influenced by other factors such as the lack of access to medical services, the non-treatment of chronic and malignant diseases, as well as poverty. Scientific research shows that the risk of mortality is significantly higher for those with income below the national poverty line. In 2020, as many as 66.56% of pensions received under the Pension Insurance Act, etc. ordinary pensions either below the poverty line, which proved to be precisely through the figures on the rate of death of older people already in the following year as mentioned. The total number of pensioners has fallen significantly, although the inflow of new pensioners has not been reduced compared to the previous period. But it is interesting to ask what kind of end of life the poor are waiting for, and what rich people in countries with rich economic resources, who experience poverty and indifference, are likely to die younger with increased side diseases, and the researchers of palitative care are beginning to create a complete picture of the disproportionate impact of poverty in which way, and when and where we are dying at all, it is something that the pandemic covid-19 further illustrates to all of us. There is a large number of new research dealing with health inequalities and focusing on poverty and indifference right at the end of life as well as on the circumstances that produce privileges. Science in many countries is trying to debate poverty in the context of the need for palitative care and overall circumstances at the end of life itself. Generally, the effects of poverty and indifference on the experience at the end of life should be recognised not only as a socioeconomic injustice but as a cultural and symbolic inequality. In Croatia, almost no mention of the devastating impact of poverty on faster and dreary death is mentioned except that it can be seen from some figures. But the trend in mortality continues. In the first two months of 2022 alone, the death of 8260 pensioners was recorded, while only 6241 were newly retired. If such a course continued with two thousand more dead on newly retired, it is possible to expect a drop of as many as 12,000 pensioners at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102869	The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club and will be spoke by respected representative Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102870	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow citizens. My colleagues were talking about freedom of choice. I'm going to talk about media freedom today. We've had the World Media Freedom Day on Tuesday, and we've marked it, and we've marked it since '93. when the UN General Assembly declared that day and as we mark the World Day of Freedom of Media normally this year we should be in mind with journalists reports, cameramen who broadcast events from Ukraine for aggression that risk their lives, unfortunately some of them have died, unfortunately there are both dead and definitely today and these days we should be in their minds. Unfortunately, in Split we are not in their minds because in Split just on the day of the World Freedom of Media they received confirmation of the indictment against the former mayor of Ivosevic where the DORH is seeking a conviction and has begun a criminal trial for which a sentence of three years is sought. In fact, if you don't remember a few months and days ago, right in February, there was this unkind case, you probably don't even remember you from other parts of Beautiful Ours. Why, why don't you remember that event? Because he wasn't exactly accompanied by anything media, which is the case where the former mayor told a journalist and told one editor that she would get drunk of her blood so she wouldn't give any more statements about Free Dalmatia. And this editor and this journalist, shaken and shocked, ended up in sick times, asking for psychological help, but that's relatively irrelevant for all of us here. It is a crime that is being prosecuted by official duty, I do not need to tell you much, it is only absurd that this person is going into elections today, that person supported with his party enters the election battle, although by law he could not even be an official in Banovina, and the law unfortunately allows such a person to be mayor tomorrow if he succeeds in obtaining the support of our citizens. But we must know and not be fooled that this is not a battle for Split, Split is just a victim who will pay 2 million kuna and more of this election because it will probably be repeated when the final verdict comes. Split is a victim of the ambition of certain individuals from a particular party, Split is the victim of the former mayor of Pula, who has very little more ambition towards Zagreb and Brussels. I will note, here are my colleagues already reporting, and I will mention their words again, "We will fight hard against every form of intimidation against the journalist activists, citizens," I do not see that fierce struggle from my colleague Dalia who has reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor from her colleague Puljak, but here while we wait for a verdict on this case we have a delay in the conviction of a similar case of the same man and in order to be ruled probably could not even run. But I repeat, it doesn't matter what we don't have to discuss because like the media and some actors on the political scene, this case is being banalized, so it's probably all irrelevant. I'm not going to mention here what the attorney general said in her report, gave even some recommendation that we should behave in these cases, even there's a chapter in the report that against the attack on the press, condemn him, urgently prosecute him, call the DORH, call the police. But I haven't seen any reaction from the attorney general or gender equality attorneys to any of you colleagues or colleagues on the left, I haven't seen any public conviction, but it's all normal we need to support a man to win another term, it's the only absolute conclusion. I will end up with my colleague, Jelena Burazine, from Split, "I read today with which the threats are now being rejected, and now there are none, friends are witnesses they certainly do not lie. On the other side of the victim, she's probably the one who's lying, she's ended up on sick leave, I guess, and everybody's silent, and everybody's backing everybody up because it's not their daughter, their sister, their mom, their friend, it's sad that real victims of violence have to read this kind of banalizing violence instead of encouraging them to report violence. The society tells them that they will turn out to be liars."This way I congratulate all journalists, journalists and media workers on World Freedom Day with a small delay, I guess we from Split react a little slower, not only to violence but also to such anniversarys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102871	Representative Oreshković has raised a breach of the rules of procedure. What was hurt in the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102872	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238. Demeaning and insulting the MPs. Let me explain to you what the point of the elections is in Split, the fight against double criteria and hypocrisy no criteria [[I'm sorry, who's been hurt?]] The smaller justified elections in Split are not the ones currently taking place in Novska. [[I'm sorry, who's been hurt?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102873	Please don't keep doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102874	The second time, send a little stronger forces when they want to degrade democratic processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102875	Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Don't do that. I just said don't do that, especially don't use it to abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure during free speech because everyone can tell everyone. Since we disagree, and many disagree with each other and use this free - speech situation, it is also called free speech in the jargon to say certain things. Maybe even some things that normally fit into certain points couldn't be said. Now, if we're going to start with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, everyone can get hurt by the rules of procedure because they don't like what the other one says. So, please don't do that. ... Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, until the end of this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's formal, but I told you. Next will be on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club My colleague, please, it's me. [[Intruder Ante Bačić:...judgment of the Rules of Procedure.]] Nicely said you didn't do it. [[Intruder Ante Bačić: I insist.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102877	Mr. Vice President, with all due respect, I insist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102878	Great, go ahead and you'll get the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102879	No problem, though. Art. 238, since my colleague said I was belittled, I have to point out that I didn't disrespect anyone by any chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102880	Okay, I'm based. In 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102881	I just want to thank you on behalf of your fellow journalist editor who you so nicely defend she's wrong, I'm wrong...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102882	/Intruder Reiner: Basic Art. In 240th century, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102883	Intruder Reiner: Based Article. In 240th century, I give you a warning. Everyone's wrong, you're wonderful, you're right. Thank you on behalf of everyone, Free Dalmatia, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102884	Let's be serious, please. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak. Comrade Bačić, please enough, enough! ... I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Comrade Bacic, Comrade Bacic, what is wrong with you? You want me to kick you out, so come on, come on, please calm down, please. Here's a respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u102987	I thank the chairman. I will only refer to my colleague Bačić in one thing only, that the elections are unnecessary in Split. I guess this is a precedent in political history not only of Croatia but also of the world that the opposition fears the elections, that the opposition is not fighting for the elections, that the opposition does not want to challenge the elections, that HDZ does not want to bring down power. The HDZ as an opposition in Split does not want to bring down power but rather says elections are unnecessary. Now this is really what it is for the annals of political history ever in the whole world. That's all I'm going to react to, this is what the citizens will say, when the government determines the date of the election, the citizens will say theirs. And today here's my speech, the theme of speech is trust in the police. So while EU citizens have high confidence in the institutions of their countries, Croatian citizens have the highest confidence in the military and police, the church trusts more than NGOs, and it is evident that they believe more in the EU than in the Croatian public administration, according to this research by Politologist Costa Boban from the Zagreb Faculty of Political Sciences and Nikola Bakete from the Institute of Social Research in Zagreb. They analyzed data collected in research since '99. Until '20. held by the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb, in which citizens were asked to assess on a scale of 1 to 5 the level of confidence in political and social institutions. The most stable citizens' trust has been shown to be enjoyed by the military and the police. Politologists conclude that the analysis has shown that it has been in the period since '99. Until the 20th, 2020. citizens' confidence in representative institutions reduced what suggests the alienation of citizens from these institutions and poses a problem of the functioning of representative democracy in Croatia while confidence in the institutions of the military and police security remains stable. So today in 2022, do the citizens still believe in the police so much? Just yesterday, Vlada Perkusic, current chief of PP Omis and his colleague Ivan Lozic were arrested, former head of the Department of Economic Crime, Split-Dalmatia and current inspector of the department who were suspended from their positions in early February due to suspicion of abuse of positions and powers, and inciting abuse. By listening to secretly recorded talks, Josipa Rimac, former Knin's mayor and secretary of state as part of the wind power affair, encountered her conversation with Lozic, in which he allegedly promised to report the details of the investigation against her. After disfellowshipping a police officer from Split's cell phone, they found two police officers handling the traffic violations of Lozic's wife, instead of the wife for the wheel, putting the late aunt in order to save her wife several thousand kunas. Second case, recently the mayor of Vukovar-Srijemski was driving drunk. All witnesses say he crashed into another car and got out of the driver's seat, literally dropped out of the car drunk, but the police have a different report, saying he was a passenger or he wasn't driving a car. Did the police get involved in saving the mayor? The third more terrible case is the one in Osijek where we just watched the series of Šutnja Dalibor Matanić, a series based on the novels of Draga Hedl, which he wrote on the basis of true events in Osijek 10 years ago, wrote about a chain of juvenile prostitution involving children of the House for raising children and youth and members of a high and powerful Osijek society who used these children for 50 kunas, boxes of cigarettes or cell phones. The Osijek police are announcing an investigation, and then within two days, it ends expressly. The inspector who conducted the investigation until then was immediately removed and without any explanation removed from the case. So far, nothing has happened to the actors of this scandal, but it's all covered up. The mistrust of Croatian citizens in government and institutions is not new. It was highly expressed before the pandemic, according to the Eurobarometer survey, even more than a few of the Croatian respondents showed no confidence in the government and parliament. This latest research showed that the level of trust in the police was stable. If these cases are a sign that the police are also falling apart from the inside, as an organisation engages and connects with politics, trust in it will surely fall, and that is, with no confidence in the other institutions of the state and the end of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103072	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, and will speak for the club's respected representative Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103073	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. It is a big problem when hospital department heads make decisions by relying on laws they have neither read nor knowingly only selectively apply. Every so many cases come out in public, and again points to all the systemic failures women face, so we are now due to the indescribable torment and suffering of a brave woman who publicly speaks about it again to the hypocrisy of the Croatian health system and so from one to another public case, and we do not even know how many more of those who did not go public. That's inadmissible. To move away for a moment from the ideological signs of this whole story, abortion based on medical diagnosis of foetal malformations is not the same as abortion of unwanted pregnancy. It's not the same. In such cases abortion is done without any problems in countries that are much more conservative than Croatia. But no, we doctors dictate to women that after the 10th week of pregnancy abortion in Croatia can't be legally executed, and that's not true. The current Law on abortion states in Art. 22. "After the expiry of 10 weeks from the date of the inception of the first degree commission, the Commission may authorise the termination of pregnancy with the consent of a pregnant woman in cases where, inter alia, medical indications and knowledge of medical science may expect the child to be born with severe birth defects or mental defects" and these are the findings of medical science by '78. Because he's been dating this law ever since. That part of the law shuts up, shuts up and sends them to Slovenia, and those who do so are malignant ignorers and shame may be. The law has seven pages, it's less than a high school report, seven pages read it all the way. It is not known who or under what conditions and what act may call for a conscience, how long such an act may be valid and whether someone’s call for conscience is in a public hospital and the same person commits it equally in private hospitals. Nothing is known except that women are put into slavery because someone else is making decisions about their body and their health. You may have an appeal to conscience, no one defends you, but the state must allow women safe and accessible health care services to interrupt pregnancy under the conditions defined by the existing law, and he in Article. 17. says "A pregnancy interruption can be carried out in hospitals that have a gynecology and maternity unit." And if, in some hospital, all gynecologists are called on by conscience, as is the case in many of our hospitals, then you should choose to hire additional gynecologists who are not under the call of conscience and choose to allow citizens of this country to use the law of defined rights instead of hiding behind cheap and cowardly tricks. 21 February 2017 The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision under which HS must, cannot be optional, must adopt a new law within two years. The deadline expired in February 2019 and the government did not send any proposals to the procedure. It doesn't matter, she sent the opposition, but these proposals not only don't come to an HS debate but the government never officially gave an opinion on them. The government avoids this topic and the order of the Croatian Constitutional Court as the devil darkens, and to the detriment of a growing number of women and it is cruel, it is ruthless and it is cruel. We are asking from the Social Democrats Club, we demand that Minister Beros come to HS and explain why, for three years now, he is late, why he is deafening the constitutional court's solution, why the appeal to his conscience is not regulated by any act. Come Ministers, come explain to us the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, explain why we are telling the patient in Slovenia to perform procedures for a thousand euro that they have free of charge in their homeland. Maybe the minister doesn't know what the government's position is because the prime minister hasn't agreed to it within HDZ yet, I understand that, but ask the ministers where it's been stuck since 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103074	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Marko Milanović litre. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103075	Art. 238nd fellow Glamuzina insulted here a large part of Croatian citizenship, Christians all, all Christians, all Catholics. The appeal of conscience is the right of every doctor and you can't force any doctor to kill an innocent child about whatever situation it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103076	My colleague Milanović litre, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but in addition, we have had a good custom that seems to be giving up silently on behalf of clubs or what is called free speech. In free speech if someone is not offended and if I don't know someone I don't know doesn't use something that isn't suitable for this place, whether I agree or disagree, I think the abuse of an infringement institute here is least justified and I ask you not to do it anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103077	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103119	Let's take a stand. The first reported was on behalf of the MOST, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103120	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm always sad when injustice happens in Croatian society, and then I'm particularly sad when injustice happens to Croatian defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War. I have in my hands the judgment of the Municipal Court in Crikvenica on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. The verdict was by the Voluntary of the Homeland War, who had been on the front line for many years as a volunteer and defended this country's private property. If I wanted to use some horrible painting, I'd once again say a horrible painting, then I'd say that Comrade Tito when he was taking away real estate and land you had two options bullets in his forehead or a bag of potatoes. Here the bag of potatoes the Croatian defender did not get, the bullet in the forehead thank God he did not but was pressed around the neck with a financial noose because he must pay several thousand kuna court costs. Now listen to this. In 2008, a volunteer of the Homeland War buys a beach house, the state makes it possible for it, pays 60,000 euros, the state says your tax is like that, pays a man and taxes. Afterwards, the state allowed him to register in all books and be the owner of 1/1. Then 14 years goes by, and the state says that because of this law, this object that is yours is no longer yours, but we take it into the possession of the Republic of Croatia. In a literal sense, I have a verdict in my hands, so it's good for the sea. Now it's become a good sea. The state didn't say we'd damage you, how much did you pay? 60,000 euros, here's your money. The state didn't say a fair fee was that and that. The state didn't even say we'd pay your taxes to a friend. No, the state said you could be in a concession. What concession, man? Private property is the law, the foundation of everything. The man paid taxes, bought a house, signed up as owner, and now they say climate change, little this, little what, so that's the maritime good and becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia. When the people of Rovinj, the entire Istria of my Kvarner, Moscenica Draga, Krka, Cres, Rab, Losinj, and all the way down to Prvic Luka, so the state sees what's going to happen to her on the streets, does the state understand what's going to happen to her in court proceedings where people will protect their private property? It's an injustice and it's inadmissible. If the state takes something away from me, the state assesses that and that country, the road, but then you have to make it right for me. If I paid 60 grand euros, paid that tax, paid me back my money, that's my money, that's my money, you can't take anything from me, and then you can still tell me and you can live here without compensation, so I won't do it, give me my money back. And watch as it's settled in France. In France, it is settled in a way that until the time of the adoption of the Law on the ban on construction on maritime goods, the State recognises all registered property, provided that if they or their successors ever wish to sell that property, then the State has the right to buy out first, but at a market price, because it is fair and fair. We've had enough of taking this one or that no matter what color the department was wearing. We have the traumas of the past, and we have the color of the present from various masters whom some of our Croats have worshipped before, and we see today. Enough kidnapping of private property. So let's take an example of France, it's a model that we can apply, and we can't pass absurd laws that take away people's private property on which a property tax has been previously charged and allowed to register in all land books. Therefore, on behalf of the Most Club, I will propose amendments to this law and I believe that everything will go well and what we always call for in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103209	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club will now speak the esteemed representative of William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103210	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the day of media freedom, the international day which was 3.5 yesterday and the team of Croatian journalists and journalists awarded their annual awards. I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate the winners. The annual award was won by Boris Dežulovic as journalist of the year, Marinko Culic for life's work, Tamara Opačić for written journalism, photo reporter Igor Šoban for photography, Andrej Dimitrijevic again for investigative journalism. I can't count all the journalists and journalists now. I want to congratulate them all, and I want to congratulate those who were nominated, but in this case they didn't get that reward. I think it is very important to say what the team says about the international day of media freedoms, which says very well-respected journalist, the prominent Branko Mijic, who says that the day of true freedom of the media around the world has never been further from us. Now the question of course and how many media freedoms are present in Croatia today. Journalists also in front of a journalist's home organised by the Croatian Journalist Society and the Journalists' Union marked the day with dignity without celebrations, but also solidarity with the currently most endangered journalists in Ukraine, honoring the murdered Ukrainian journalists and journalists, so they kept their photographs. Branko Mijic also says in his text that there are certainly more endangered journalists in Russia who only say about what happens in Ukraine, if they call it war, risk 15 years in Siberia. However, when our minister speaks about the situation in several of her press statements, on the occasion of the international day, she says that she thinks that, of course, what we think about media freedoms and what we have to do with the media is important. It speaks of a lot of investment in the development of independent media and professional journalism, however, there is a kind of need, among other things, says this, we will certainly try in the part where the government, the ministry and the regulatory agency can influence this whole media image, and when we talk about the protection of the profession, we are outside the media who need to say, this is ethical or not ethical, and there is a great space for the HND professional association or some other involvement, and that part of self-regulation to be more present in the work and in the public, and then it will strengthen and trust in the media. It is called for Croatia's 48th place in the Reporter Without Borders Index, instead of last year's 56th and, of course, it is considered progress, but I still need to say a few things, as they said. Although media, Reporters without Borders say, although the media scene in Croatia has become diverse and dynamic, the government is unable to protect journalists from legal attempts to silence them and from organised crime, RSF estimates add to the report that the government itself poses a threat to freedom of press. I also need to say that the president of the Croatian Journalist Society just got another verdict yesterday, but that's not why HTV would drop the SLAP suit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103211	Thank you. The club, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103295	Thank you, dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Yesterday we discussed here in the High House on the state of enforcement of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, above all in spending and ensuring material-technical conditions or financial resources, but certainly also on the scale, the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, we had the opportunity to hear and see the views of government and new from colleagues and colleagues, who were to a greater extent opposed, but certainly, there was an assessment, quite justified, that in the Republic of every citizen, every member of the national minority felt and could feel within the meanings of their guaranteed rights, in their lives, their family life, working and legal status, as this and the majority people live, therefore undiscriminating, unobsessured, to God that, however, today I have the need to say that the members of a national minority are not in such a position that they are vulnerable and 30 years after the arrival of the Croatian people, the Croatian people who have been left to defend themselves with the Croatian people, who, who have been very much of the Croatian people, who, who have fought for Croatian people, who, who have been very much more than the Croatians, who are very much of the Croatian people, who are very much, who, who, who, who have been very much of the Croatian people, who are very, who are very of the Croatian people, who, who, who are very, who are very of the Croatians, who are very, who are very of the Croatian people, who are very, who are very, who are very, who are very, who they, who are very, who they, who are very, who they, who they of themselves, who they of themselves, who they of themselves, who they of themselves, who they of themselves, who they are very much of themselves, who are very much, and they are very of the people, who are very of themselves, who are very, and they, and they, who are very of the people, and they of the people of the people of the people of the people, who of the people of the people, who of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people, who are very of the people, who they, who they of the people, who, who, who, who are very of the people, who are very of the people of the people of the people, who are The Serbs or Orthodox religions who, they were, someone was saying several thousand, I know of several hundred whom I had personally commanded, throughout the war, who, roughly speaking, were loyal, not, who believed in freedom and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in legality, in justice, in honesty, who defended the freedom of the Croatian people and their freedom of their family and thus contributed to the improvement of Croatia's homeland. Unfortunately, it's an incredible fact and a finding, these people, 8, 9, 10 grand, and not to mention their families, you won't see today in the position of Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, head of the sector. If they had, under quotes of luck to get a certain geller, a bullet or a grenade or, God forbid, PTSD, then they ended up retired. If they didn't, and during the Homeland War, they passed their war-suffering difficult path, if they didn't do it, then, like everyone else, they're actually on the verge of social existence and those families, but the state of Croatia, not governments, no governments, nor those left-liberal, nor so on. Our right-wing, no ministry, none of the defence ministers found it appropriate to promote from these ranks as the ultimate sign of one community of the people, the association of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the crucial moments, and to build on these foundations the common future and prosperity of the world, these Croatia, not all of them decided for the abolised Chetniks, for those who raised their hands on the Republic of Croatia to the state ministries, they were given agencies of the state, they were given spaces in the public media and even the HT's space, and people who sacrificed their lives and health, who, whose families, their mothers, were the people who had fathers and mothers Banovini, Kordun, Lici and Eastern Slavonia, persecuted their fathers and mothers, not for them, are not for them neither. Listen, that's why they're... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103401	Thank you, thank you very much. Next on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected representative, Davor Dretar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103402	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, it's time for a very short story that has three chapters. 2 are so-called. Introductive, 3 is what's most interesting because it combines the dramatic potential of the first two. Story number one, after 75 years of work, is extinguished by the only dairy industry in the Primorje-Gorski County. The Tonka milkman's closing the drive by the middle of this month. There were plans for the milkman to move to Lika, but none of it did. One of the biggest problems is the lack of domestic raw materials, so a ransom of as many as 180 cooperatives has been cancelled. In addition to the lack of raw materials, the main reason for the closure of dairy is to highlight the increased cost of production, energy prices, raw materials prices and, of course, investments that are inevitable in order to meet the technical conditions of production. Therefore, PIK Rijeka has a 75-year tradition of dairy production, pastry and pastry products and was the only one in the Primorje-Gorski County that has processed milk and dairy products for 75 years. She's gone now. Story number 2, in a large Croatian company in the north of Koprivnica, bonuses were distributed to members and members of the administration. There's no need to name them, but it's worth hearing the amounts. President of the 972,000 kuna administration, other members of the administration 641,700 kuna, 2 times 606.000 kuna and another amount of 677,500 kuna, a total of just over 3 and a half million kuna. Overall, the company's official website claims that their average salary is about 8000 kuna, but if you take a closer look at the company's workers' reactions to the claims of your own administration, you will see that it is not true. There are also salaries from 3,600, 3,800, 4,000 to 4,300 kuna per month. And here we are now in an interesting account at the final part of this beautiful Croatian story. So, the company's board members are given bonuses that they won't believe when we share them with the average salary in that company are the amount that a worker or worker would earn to work for 75 years. So, an incredibly unique coincidence. On the one hand, after 75 years, dairy in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County falls, and in all of Croatia, there are no flowers blooming, and on the other hand, a group of people in one single day receive a cash amount for which the average Croatian man has to work for the same 75 years. Now, my Croatia where you're going we really have to ask and end up with one sad finding and a big question are we all stupid? By reading some philosophical references to the subject of stupidity, I may have found one of the most precise and shortest. The definition of stupidity is knowing the truth, seeing the truth but still believing the lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103403	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and will be spoken by respected representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u103546	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. Recently, in HS we declared the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease which will be the first time we will mark next Saturday, so on May 14th, throughout the Republic of Croatia. Sugar disease is a serious public health problem in Croatia, today the third cause of mortality in Croatia according to 2019 data, and in 2020 more than 310 thousand people with diabetes were registered in the Republic of Croatia, but since more than 40% of patients have not yet been diagnosed, the total number of patients is estimated to be more than 500 thousand and increases every day. Too late, diagnosed and inadequately treated disease leads to chronic complications and reduction of quality and life-longness. Diabetes is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease and kidney disease, blindness and limb amputation. What is the economic impact of diabetes in Croatia? The treatment of HZZO diabetes spends almost 20% of its budget, according to 2016 data. This is 4.6 billion kuna, i.e. now and more, the costs of treating complications of the disease are represented in the largest share of 88% of these funds. The cost of basic treatment at all levels of healthcare is 1.3% of the total cost, and the cost of medicines for the treatment of diabetes is 8.1%) and helped by 2.5% of the total cost. How to increase the quality of life of diabetes patients, how to reduce their mortality, how to detect increased glycaemic levels in time before diabetes? First, prevention measures, balanced diet, reduced intake of unhealthy calories, increased physical activity, decreased weight, quit smoking, education from the earliest age, and that concerns each of us. Furthermore, by early detection by responding to public health actions and by measuring glycaemia, by responding to systematic examinations, not by neglecting mildly elevated glycaemic values in the pre-diabetes domain leading to diabetes. Furthermore, with timely treatment and with all measures including proper diabetes therapy, as well as other cardiovascular risk factors, elevated lipids, blood pressure, education, self-control of glycaemic, weight regulation, regular physical activity, drug use, therefore from oral therapy to subcutaneous medicinal products and at the end of insulin. And what does our country do? On the one hand, we have a wide range of medicines to treat diabetes on the A or B list at extra charge, a wide selection of oral therapy and insulin or help. However, there is a imbalance between available therapies, aids, modern technologies, and a small percentage of well-regulated patients. There is a lack of doctors and nurses, which at primary healthcare level, which at secondary or tertiary level, is delayed in the schedule of specialisations. All of us health care professionals and our diabetic patients were startled by the HZZO decision last year that since 5 June, people who have type 2 diabetes and who are on non-insulin therapy have been reduced the number of strips to evaluate or check blood sugar levels from 100 to 50 pieces per year. This decision also further reduces the difficulty in maintaining orderly glycaemicity in these pandemic times when patients were reduced by the possibility of coming to both diabetic and family medicine doctors. This decision will have a bad impact on the health of people with diabetes and will increase the cost of treating complications, and this will further burden the health system by saving to God on patients the future cost rises. The HZZO did not consult all professional companies, nor the roof reference centre for diabetes, but only one society whose opinion was appropriate to them. Not even a petition of associations and professions related to glucagon is respected. We are constantly warning the Resoring Ministry that in all aspects of health care, a cost of benefit analysis is needed that is not being conducted. Now let's get back to therapy. So the goal of the drugs is not only to reduce the glycaemic value by 5 or 10 millimol, the goal is to reduce the occurrence of side effects, reduce the body mass so as not to cause hypoglycaemia to be an increase in cardiovascular risk or decrease in cardiovascular risk, but to protect the heart and kidneys and to make the patient as accessible as from today, and hence, the campaign called "Why Complicate" that will officially last from 5 to 15.5.2022, the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations, with the support of the profession, is therefore also supported by the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Metabolism Diseases, the Croatian Cardiological Society and the Society for Hypertension, in order to take an additional 80 kuna for the addition of the medicine so that SGLT2 inhibitors that I am telling our patients as much as possible to reduce their mortality and extend the quality of life. So, the "Why Complicate" campaign from 5-15.5.2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106942	Good morning, everyone. Here we go on with the work, we have a report of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106943	The Honorable Vice President has been injured by a series of articles from the Rules of Procedure, namely this morning in the media, we could read that Constitutional Court President Miroslav Separovic said HS provided additional documentation to the constitutional court on our referendum issues. The HS without a representative cannot deliver any documentation, we have sent the ruling majority to the Constitutional Court our referendum questions and ask you to be aware of what it is additionally sent to the Constitutional Court to give the Constitutional Court can't make a decision in a month [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106944	We're not informed. Once we get the information, we'll give it to you. We have today's request for a break first, Your Honor. Here you go, Pavliček, but we haven't opened the dot. Then, okay. [[Intruder Pavliček: A sorry.]] Today we continue... with: - Final proposal of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 256 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Affairs. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yes, but before we take a break, then, the distinguished representative Marian Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106945	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. We are looking for a 19-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult this final draft of the law, but to point out once again that Croatia is not ready to enter the euro zone. In fact, at the time of the EU's greatest financial uncertainty at the time of the biggest energy crisis, the largest and highest inflation rates within the EU in the last 20 years have indeed not been wise. This is unfortunately a political project, primarily a prime minister, not an economic project. Namely, no economic indicator is working out for you, and by your inflation projections from 3.5% will rise to 7.8%, GDP has slowed from 4.4% to 3%, personal consumption from 3.2 to 1.4%. The only thing that is growing is state spending and inflation, also growing by the projections and deficits of the state budget. All these indicators once again confirm that we're falling into something we're not ready for, we're going with our throats into strawberries as Stephen Radic once said, "We're shooting like geese in the fog," and it wouldn't be our first time. We believe that such important topics should be decided by the Croatian people in the referendum, and with the introduction of the euro we should definitely wait until we get on our feet financially, until we see which way this overall financial and economic situation within the EU will take place, particularly within the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106946	All right, break's approved. The next explanation for the break of the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the ISD Club for 10 minutes to consult further. It is not the problem of the euro as a currency, IDS of course supports the introduction of the euro from the first day our policy was for European integration a monetary and logical sequence, in the end since '94. Istria is in the Assembly of European Regions and I think we have long defined where we should go and we have no problems with that. I'm sure he'll get legal support. But the key questions for us are what our goals are, which is our direction towards these objectives because in our view the problem of the euro, the problem is money, so money that we don't create enough to express myself in this way. We do not create it enough in our society because it seems to me that somehow we have started to be a society of experiences, not content, society of services, not production and without one complete reform of the system not only monetary, not only economic, but actually reform of our entire society I think it will really not be a problem that our currency is the euro but will be a problem of some quite other. And in order to create money, I'll say more later in the debate, we have to define a lot of things in our own economy, in an abandoned name, while we haven't defined our energy independence, etc. Anyway, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS club for 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106948	All right, break's approved. The next request for an explanation is the esteemed representative of Ante Prkačin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. We are introducing the euro as an official currency and thus further separate the Croats and the fate of the Croats in BiH from us here in Croatia, and in BiH, it is currently escalating political terror over the Croats, and it is primarily led by the unspeakable officials of the international community, the real hoofs that are isolated from the Bosniak side, and they are, Bulj please, if you can, this is really an emotional and significant speech, thank you very much. In free speech, I'll tell you what I have. [[And nothing goes on.]] This one, if it was a normal reaction, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106950	All right, Your Honor, I understand your emotions, turn off your microphone, please. A microphone if you can turn it off. Next explanation of the break of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106951	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, I would once again like to highlight the importance and importance of this very law that we will have presented now in the second reading. Namely, as is known, Croatia entered the European Course Mechanism in July 2020, and within this 2.5 year, it has indeed sought to meet all the criteria with the action plan and all the measures and actions taken. What is important for Croatia and for the introduction of the euro, it is precisely that the introduction of the euro given that we are a euro-based state will actually mean much faster, more favourable and safer business, and it will also allow for greater investment and economic growth and an increase in living standards. In addition, we must note that there will be no more exchange rate differences and anything that has certainly been a big, big problem for the exporters. We hope that this will also make our, our, our, our economy much more competitive and therefore enable further development. What has been mentioned here several times by the Minister and the Vice-President of the Government and here and in yesterday's address, in fact, that our inflation rate, according to the data for the first three months, has an average rate of 6.3% at the euro area level. So we are in line with other countries and therefore very quickly and we will successfully meet all the criteria for the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106952	The apartment is approved. The next explanation of the break is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106953	I thank the chairman. So, I am trading a break of at least 10 minutes on behalf of the Justice Club for Croatia in order to point out once again that we as a club are not against entering the Eurozone, even though we believe that the Republic of Croatia, which deserves to be side by side of developed EU member states, is, however, the last financial crisis has shown those countries that are stable and resilient they will also function more successfully in the terms of the common currency than countries that are burdened with their own economic problems. And when we talk about Croatia and the moment we are in place, we currently have a million inhabitants living below the poverty line in Croatia of 3.8 million. Of these, 240,000 blocked citizens, more than 100,000 unemployed citizens, close to 100,000 citizens living on social aid, exodus from Croatia continues, prices are day-to-day wilder than those for fuel, directing to daily food products. I believe that in fact, the Republic of Croatia is very much burdened by its own economic problems and that this moment is not a moment in the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106954	Approved recess. And the next explanation of the break, the esteemed representative of Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106955	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on this subject to warn you again. Croatia is not ready to introduce the euro at the moment. The Croatian economy is not ready to introduce the euro. All independent financial experts have been warning Croatia not to crash for months if not for years. On the pages, right now on the pages of the Ministry of Economy and the CNB, you'll find that you'll completely forgive silly estimates for the next half year. You can't even estimate what's going to happen in the next half year. We see what's happening now, and the moment we warned about inflation, that's when the government called us catastrophes. We're asking you to give us a clear fuse. Give the insurance to Croatian citizens that it will really be the way you say it will be because everything you've said so far has not been shown in the last year and a half. What do you guarantee to Croatian citizens that an even greater inflation shock will happen, an even higher price increase? What do you guarantee to Croatian citizens that they will not prevail on imports? What do you guarantee to Croatian citizens that their salaries will not fall? What do you guarantee to Croatian citizens that they won't have to go after bread again? I understand all the arguments you're making just don't think it's gonna happen, and I haven't heard from anyone in the government once that said I guarantee it with it and that it's exactly what we're talking about. I'm begging you this will all pass, in 5, 10 years you'll have to look yourself in the mirror. What do you guarantee? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106956	The flat approved, also in view of Article 293b. We're moving on with our work. Dear Representative of the Proposer, please choose an additional explanation, Honored Finance Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106957	Good morning, good morning, nice greeting to all the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's one there who hasn't picked up yet, we need to make a little joke at the beginning, here's this one. It is always a pleasure and an honor to be in the Croatian Parliament, as it is this time. Here's the first time after the measures have been lifted, so we don't have to wait for someone to overwrite that plexiglas. In front of us and you today is the final proposal for a law on the euro, on the introduction of the euro. My valuable colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance have prepared an opening speech. I'm going to be the first part about everything we've done so far because of the shortness of time, and also because of the focus maybe on the most important topics that are waiting for us and that are actually going straight ahead as we say at the core, in medias true. So the basic features of this final bill to him, it's not so big, it's not so big, it's not so big, it's 96 articles, it's 10 areas or chapters. And what I like to say often, given that indeed this law and the whole process of introducing the euro refers to every individual of Croatian citizens, each of us in the Republic of Croatia will certainly do everything that this law and everything that is fundamental to it as such as is possible to a simpler, more transparent, plastic, or whatever it is we call it a way to bring it closer and explain it because it is among other things our task. So, after the EU Council's decision to win the euro is announced, and we expect it in July, so the next two and a slightly more months, we have a very intense schedule regarding our commitments as well. And I will again maintain that political correctness towards the European institutions and our partners in the EU and the European Monetary Union and say that the assumption of both this law and all our activities is the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia as of 1.1.2023, provided that the Republic of Croatia meets all the conditions that have been put before it as such as all other countries that are sooner or later introducing the euro. So after the decision to adopt the euro, after the EU regulation establishing a fixed rate of conversion, the government will announce the day of introduction of the euro. A fixed exchange rate on the day of the start and completion of the double circulation, the day of the start and completion of the double statement, and other issues needed to introduce the euro. By making this decision, the government is the first activity in the final bill that formally activates all these other provisions of the law. I'm going to drag one parallel right now, because it's between me and duty and obligation to tell me what those changes are compared to the bill, so first reading. So, among other things, we have one change in this segment, which is that the word "to introduce the euro" is replaced by "the day of the introduction of the euro". The entry into force of the law has also been amended, so after that, a large majority or a certain number of provisions following the publication of the EU Council's decision on the adoption of the euro, and everything else, of course, with the very day of the introduction of the euro. The basic principles, the principle of consumer protection, the principle of banning unwarranted price increases, the principle of continuity of legal instruments, the principle of efficiency and economics, and the principle of transparency, the information is also, in a way, the backbone of this law itself. I talked a lot about it in the first-reading bill itself, so I don't think there's much to repeat. But since even then, and I expect today to be the largest number of your replicas, comments, questions and in general in some way interest on one side as well as in how to protect the citizens and make that one of their shown, I can say both concern or fear as the only or the most prominent negative consequence of the introduction of the euro, which is rounding prices into more, so-called. Unjustified price increases and some additional effect on inflation are reduced to as little as possible. And it's actually something that's in this law, and it's most of it, and that's why I'm putting in the provisions of the law a whole series of provisions that would make in the market economy how we are, where there's no price regulation, where we can't have some kind of coercion and that kind of influence. But by stimulating competitiveness, healthy competitiveness, by stimulating and involving civil society associations that I hear this morning on one of the radio shows, they welcome the government's efforts to engage them. This was also a practice in another EU country, i.e. the European monetary union they have led, that we are simply in a positive, stimulating way, really affecting that these negative effects of the introduction of the euro are reduced to the least possible extent, and that we are also better prepared to use the additional six months, i.e. 8 in a way that further materialises all the positive effects of the introduction of the euro. I have to tell you here, and teaching you some of the comments I've heard in the very explanations of pauses a lot of things happen among other things in advance. The introduction of the euro is either the main benefits or perhaps the most prominent are the elimination of exchange rate risk, a significant reduction in currency or credit and interest risk. Some of these things we've already felt in a positive sense. We felt in the issue of our bonds, we felt in the movement of interest rates and on the loans of economies, i.e. consumers. Finally, it is also a credit rating agency that is very clear and unequivocal, so I will paraphrasise or quote their reports. The introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia means two steps higher, better credit ratings of the Republic of Croatia, and we all know that better rating actually means lower risk premiums. I purposely highlight the lower risk premium, because we are currently living in circumstances where the end of historically low or time has been historically low in the reference interest rates. And the reference interest rates are going up. You probably sent out that tonight, in our time tonight, so yesterday at the afternoon session of the Federal Reserve, where a decision was made among other things to further increase interest rates with an announcement that this trend would continue this year. The European Central Bank has little to do with a different policy, but more or less on a similar trail. Therefore, we must take into account all these circumstances, and therefore I am apostrophe that the reference interest rates of which the Republic of Croatia and similar countries cannot certainly be affected. However, what we can influence are risk premiums. So, that additional element in the total interest that we all pay together and again, almost 12 billion kuna was the cost of interest, 3.3 percentage points of GDP in 2015. We put interest in the level of 6.7 billion last year, and I'll say that, and I think we still have extra space to refinance certain bonds, so the one that comes to us in a few days, we recently betrayed it, you've probably heard about it, and also in the 7th month. achieve some additional savings on interest and protect yourself as much as possible, and the state budget, taxpayers, but also the economy and citizens even more than these recorded trends that have nothing to do with the process of introducing the euro into the Republic of Croatia. As for the provisions that I might be apostrophe here, so the Ministry of Economy has made one document that I consider to be very good and very good, and is ultimately commended by a number of employers' associations. Finally, these documents and guidelines for the translation of the euro conversion, and the Ethics Code are mostly in line in the stages of making the same with the same associations and I must say yesterday we had the National Council for the Euro, and the representatives of the HUP and the HGK and through the various dialogues that I have conducted all these months at different forums, stands and the like, from, on the subject of the introduction of the euro, I must admit that I have gained the impression that I am clear and unequivocal that the employer community is strong for the introduction of the euro, however, for them, as much as possible, this transition phase that is ahead of us, both for the financial and economic sectors of huge operational and technical procedure, but at the time we have to make it both theirs and the appeal to do so as soon as possible. Of course, in the Law itself, the general rules of recalculation are defined, and I have talked about it both the last time and with this in connection, so we will separate that part from this concept which is not easy to define, justifiable or unwarranted price raise, where if there is an incorrect recalculation, there are things very clear, the provisions of the law clearly prescribe in which way and how state institutions will react, so there are no excessive doubts or need for some depth discussion, so charging or rounding simple mathematical rules of what we know yet, which our teachers and teachers have taught us yet, I would say in elementary school. A very important segment and completed in this segment in relation to the proposal to the final bill is the definition of this so-called pre-delivery with cash. You heard, you probably followed, so here's only short information, yesterday the last element of one euro was completed, so coins of one euro and the symbol of the rabbit animal that we chose and which has now passed the right procedure and chosen in the competition itself, so the conditions are that we now go into one big, big, big procedure, which is at some point the withdrawal of a significant number of coins and bills. The estimates are about a billion and 100 million pieces of coins and about 500 million pieces of bills. My colleagues from the CNB tried to explain it a little bit and a little bit more plastic, so we're talking about the whole, dozens of Zagreb trams if they were to fill either Maximic or human or Marsonia lawn in Sl. If they covered the ship with coins one to the next, it would practically rise to almost a meter. So it's a big logistics coverage that needs to be withdrawn from one side, after that, of course, or parallel to it forged and put into circulation. However, we define the so-called Law. the concept of pre-delivery. First of all, credit institutions, banks, 4 months for bills, and 3 months for coins will be paid and executed through contracts with the CNB before the supply of cash to the euro and euro cents. In parallel, it will initiate a procedure that will indirectly pre-deliver entrepreneurs or traders, so that, among other things, it is defined and that the bank will be able to start an indirect pre-delivery immediately after it has received EUR money from the CNB and itself if it has previously concluded a contract with these persons on special pre-delivery. For micro-enterprises, therefore those with up to 10 workers whose annual income or total assets in the previous year do not exceed 15 million kunas, a simpler way is envisaged, so they will be able, based on the signed statement, to take over some special acts and the like, a signed statement of up to 10,000 euros. As of December 1st, we count that the euro coins with our Croatian national features will also be ready and entrepreneurs, but also citizens will be able to buy packages, we roughly count that it will be packages, let's say 145 euros, to round up some amount of 1000 and kuna, approximately, that they have a whole package with them, of course, not just one, will be able to buy more and put, of course, in circulation from the beginning of next year. When it enters into force and we enter formally with 1.1. will act and the dual-representation regime will be in force, not only of dual expression but of dual optics. For 2 weeks, we will be able to pay in kuna, here in the Law itself, and I have only one thing to absorb, this law is further corrected by the EU Commission's comments, by the European Central Bank, but also by further compliance with the provisions of the laws and regulations governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. So a number of these, I'd say, thresholds for a cash exchange for ready money are consistent with the existing provisions that we have, say in the legislation, so for example, 15 thousand kuna is the threshold that has been established for all of 1.1 of the conversion. Like today there are 15 thousand kunas, if you go to change to the exchange office, money ready for cash, above that amount the gentleman or the lady will ask you for identification. If you're in a bank, if you're a bank client, then you've identified yourself anyway, so, let's say, a link to the existing law. You remember the provision that we already said, that when the conversion comes and the replacement of 100 bills and 100 coins, too, to put in line with the law, but also with the best practice of all countries because all of these laws that colleagues and colleagues have followed in other countries are well part I would say harmonised. It was also a common practice in other countries in the same conversion. So we're going to repeat 100 more bills and 100 coins per transaction if it's almost money for the money. If the money for the transactions is finished, then you can do without an unlimited fee or you can put that money in the system. We're talking here for the first year in the offices of the FINA, the mail, the commercial banks without compensation, but again I repeat one transaction. You can de facto after replacing one you can literally turn and go back to the same counter and make another as such a transaction. As regards the dual display of prices, the law itself provides for both voluntary and voluntary, but also mandatory. The moment the decision is announced and the course of conversion is known then the period of volunteering starts, if someone wants to start showing double prices already. Since 5 September, everyone is bound by all those exceptions that I spoke about and in the first draft of the law, we can do them in replicas or if I can count them, but you know we have about 3 categories of exceptions. On the one hand, you have those who, in some ways, would mean a significant increase in costs relative to the existing situation and would not be able to look for such a thing. We also have something that has already been printed in advance, notes, various vouchers and the like, as merchants like to say, “until the end of the supply. ” And the first category is actually the one that is, among other things today, practically because of the limited physical space either I don't know about the stands or the blues or the kiosks, and so on and so on, they don't have a very high price on all their products. However, whatever account you get in any of these places will eventually have to be shown double, so just so that the totem gas station doesn't have the price in euro when you come and pay and pour fuel or go to the kiosk one and buy whatever you have on your account you will see the double-shown total amount of this account. And also everything about showing pensions, salaries, public finances, budgets, this year we'll see each other, and for the first time we'll talk about the budget among other things in... or in euro, we will prepare all this in time and make it as comparable as possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been many years since the many MPs I see here and on both sides of the political spectrum who have made a lot of quality comments, so we have improved among other things and the way of reporting and presentation and the adoption of the budget itself in HS etc.. The remaining time, let me just say a few words about the criteria, I believe there will be a lot of inflation issues. So, with March at the last March government meeting, we met the remaining criteria and measures that concern us after our entry into the foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism 2 and close cooperation with the European Central Bank or the banking union, so the clutches, we met all the measures and the report. The data has already begun to arrive for the eurozone, and I think in about 10 or 14 days, there will be a publication for our inflation in April. This will be the last data to be included in the convergence report of the European Central Bank and of the European Commission which will be published in early June and, among other things, be viewed on the one hand as a convergence part, so all of that in terms of GDP, fiscus and the like, and you have recently paraphrased or quoted certain provisions of the convergence programme that we adopted two weeks ago at the government, the rates of assessment, inflation growth, etc., but the most important part will be that part of the testing of the master criteria. For years, fiscus and the budget have been focused, however, this is no longer the case. We ended up with a deficit within 3% last year above all expectations, better than all expectations and reduced public debt in GDP by 7 and a half percentage points, which re-ranks us among the countries with the highest reduction in the share of public debt in GDP and remains that, pardon, inflation element. It is not compared to the average, unfortunately, that Croatia is on average, but is seen in relation to the 3 best countries. However, the very dynamic situation that is happening, and there are some really clear reasons that some countries over the past 12 months can even be treated as statistical deviations from the average inflation level. We also had a similar situation in 2014 in the last enlargement of the European Monetary Union, Lithuania when it entered, practically 3 countries were completely excluded from the statistical coverage. There is discretionary law of the European Commission and of the European Central Bank, and this criterion is not entirely accurate because it leaves the possibility that some of these countries with lower inflation levels may have some other factors that have affected them as such. However deeply we believe that the inflation rate, however unfortunately, is reality and reality that inflation has accelerated over the past months. We have clearly communicated our projections to the public in Croatia and to you that it will continue to speed up as such. We believe that the Republic of Croatia will meet all criteria and be able to introduce the euro 1.1.2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106958	Thank you, Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106959	Thank you very much, the Honorable Chairman is injured. 171st because on this important subject, which is why there is no representative of the CNB. Maybe Vujčić, as governor, is loving food, bringing down the fish with quality white wines with the master boss who received it in the contest as he comes to mind or perhaps he drinks coffee with Coric and talks about a new function. I would like to know why the parliamentary deputies and the people did not come here to settle their euro accounts on both the first and second readings, which avoids Governor Vujčić from coming here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106960	Time. You called in an article. 171. ... to call on something that has nothing to do with this, you get a warning, you get a warning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's go with the replicas, the first respected representative is Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106961	Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. Well, here's the main criticism we've had on the board and everything that's not a good time. Personally, I think the exact opposite is that right now is the best time. Why? You yourself said 12 billion kuna interest we had, no one mentions more highways, nationalization, sales, precisely by your action and interest reduction, by smart policy we came to the conclusion that it was a sustainable project. Stability, global rating agencies keep us credit ratings right as the main argument is getting into the eurozone. But what matters most is we get an umbrella from the European Central Bank. So give us a little explanation of what this umbrella is, and we also saw an example of this umbrella in the example of Sberbank's recovery, other businesses failed, in Croatia there was a recovery, which is how we got that umbrella and what it means for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106962	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106963	Thank you very much, Your Honor. At the beginning of the crown, the crown crisis, of course, has been a matter of concern for both citizens and all of us together and on course. What have we done? In cooperation with the European Central Bank, the government and the CNB have practically concluded that so-called swap arrangement. So, just as a precautionary measure if something were to happen, for good luck and thank God we didn't even have to use it, but just to know that we had it at our disposal that if there was an unwanted event that we could use it as such. On the other hand, it's the same issue of bonding. Here's just as a cartoon, the Republic of Croatia issued a bond a few weeks ago. Compared to Portugal, and we have the same rating, their price was about 0.8% lower for one single reason, which is that the European Central Bank guarantees the purchase of these same bonds and investors have greater security. That's what we'll have, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106964	The next replica of the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106965	Thank you. Dear Minister, please, you can tell me 3 of your arguments, they shouldn't be long. Is there a possible monetary union without a fiscal union? Here's one question and a good Pavic made me laugh so it doesn't matter, the story of the oxymoron, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106966	I don't know if the Rules of Procedure provides for a reply to a replica of, say, an hour and a half, I don't know, but to answer this briefly, so it's certainly a topic that's longer along time and many countries and many experts, scientists, analysts, financiers, macro-economicists put it on, on the table. At this point I would say it is not matured time, we have a lot of topics concerning physics and tax policies that have been made and improved, but we are still quite far from opening and as such topics. Someone will say that the total and right union does not exist without not only monetary but also of course fiscal unions. We're going to see how long it's going to be and what it's actually going to be. Something has tried and tried with the Stability and Growth Pact on the Mastric criteria that as much fiscal policy approaches, however, we see for ourselves in response to crises there are a number of differences between countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106967	The next replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106968	Thank you. My dear Minister, I will ask the same question. Is the euro equally good for all its members? So does the introduction of the euro have the same effect for all its members? So that's the first question. And the second question is, are the reasons why some of the countries that are members of the EU and have not entered the eurozone are these reasons for political, social and other reasons, or are there economic reasons? And why some serious economic analysts in Croatia say that it is not time for the introduction of the euro, e.g. Marushka Vizek? And with what certainty do you claim right now to be a moment, or is it just another one of fulfilling Prime Minister Plenkovic's tasks, these Brussels tasks he has received?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106969	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106970	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and our own, some of the analysts, as well as the foreign best to ask. I can give myself some effort and try to interpret the reasons, but let's just say one parallel that I had just answered to the distinguished representative Pavic, when we made this arrangement about the swap I heard and that some other countries were not asking the euro area the same question, I won't be counting them now, but they contacted me directly in which way they could, among other things, enter into such a regime, regardless of how much they wished not to pursue the issue of introducing the euro as such. You have a similar theme with some other associations at global level where some countries change a certain opinion in the given circumstances. We have made our own path very clear, we have taken the euro by introducing and entering the EU, but, of course, under the condition that certain criteria are met. And what all this time has been done and what will be done before us is as better prepared as possible for the benefits to be greater. Whether the euro will always mean the same thing to everyone, unfortunately, neither kuna nor forint nor evil, nor any other currency does it mean in those individual countries either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106971	The next replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106972	Your Honor, here's the statement you said we'd enter the euro zone only in case we met all the conditions set. As far as one of the main conditions is concerned, inflation will not be met, we will have more inflation than requested and yesterday Governor Vujcic himself made a statement that reads, it would be a little odd to ask the country to have lower euro area inflation that he enters. And you mentioned yourself that there was a possibility so-called. statistical deviations from certain conditions. Well, then it turns out that we stick to the child's condition as far as turkey dots are concerned, so let's go to the euro zone. And that just shows that this is a pure political project, not an economic project. Why go into something if indeed the main criterion, one of the main criteria, and that inflation is not met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106973	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As far as these data are concerned, there will be opportunities to analyze them a little deeper and more detailedly. April has not yet been fully published, but for example for the March of 5 countries that have recorded the highest and this significant two-digit inflation are four eurozone countries, all Baltic Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and the Netherlands and there is still the Czech Republic, and yet on the other hand there are countries from the euro area like France or Finland, well Denmark is not, but it is also one of the lower inflations, Malta, Portugal and the like. So we see a situation that's quite wide. Croatia is somewhere in the middle of inflation and the movement of inflation in Croatia is nothing but an average. Unfortunately, I'm saying it's not an average test but for those three best countries, but I wouldn't quite agree with what you say we don't meet the criteria. The criterion as such is a day, as is your public debt, he says must be below 60, but if over 60 has to have the dynamics of the reduction we meet. So we still need to look at the full interpretation of the criteria themselves. In the end, if we don't meet, we won't even come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106974	Next replica, the esteemed Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106975	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Finance. I think it is important that today we say in both concrete and factual terms what Croatia's entry into the euro zone, or the introduction of the euro, will have to do with Croatian citizens. I think that, above all, is the reduction of risk, the currency risk, because if we look at today's total debt of both the state and the business and the population, which is tied to the euro, and not to the kuna, is over 70% and over two thirds, in particular 500 billion kuna. To have a depreciation of the kuna only 10% is an increase of 50 billion kuna. So by introducing the euro, we reduce the currency risk, we reduce citizens' dependence on the kuna and, of course, have stronger security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106976	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's the replica you've said more or less what I should do in some way over and over again. Croatia is the most premature EU member state not a member of the European Monetary Union, but I believe deeply, and I am sure that we are more Eurosed than many countries that have introduced the euro as such in the meantime, that is, in the previous years or decades. The reasons for this historically looked back and all three decades of our monetary in terms of independence and kuna actually clearly show that we have always been tied up, regardless of what is legislative and constitutionally written that we have a fluctuating exchange rate, it was practically very closely related to the German mark, or today with the euro. And that's, of course, through that macro-region and to the level of all of us together as citizens and individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106977	Next replica, respected Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106978	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Maric. In the media and in this public debate over the euro, we can often hear a call for experts, economic analysts, political commentators, and some of the ruling ones are always calling for a profession, and I will call this time on the profession. Namely, we have highly qualified Nobels economists, people who deal with monetary policy or economy such as Friedman, Stigitz, Moody people who are from both left and right spectrum, and these centres I would say people of different economic doctrines warn about the problems of the euro, exactly what counterpart Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic mentioned, and what growing federalisation is one fiscal union that follows us soon, which we, as sovereigns, consider problems, how do you comment? And how do you comment on the criteria that were different from when we approached or when we voted here in HS and what they are today?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106979	Thank you very much, Your Honor. All the above mentioned, all the Nobels and scientists I greatly appreciate, some of them I had the opportunity to personally meet at the various forums before my engagement at the Ministry of Finance, and I don't know if you remember whether I was in Agrokor and I worked at the Economic Institute, to remind myself, I must remind myself, then I also read all their articles and stayed at numerous conferences and their opinion greatly appreciated. However, we also have our own thoughts. I haven't even read from some of their latest performances something diametrical contrary to what we as government and CNB in this process advocate and lead. Of course, it's always the same thesis as it was, and when we enter the EU, the better you prepare yourself and do your jobs, the better and the better it will be for you, and the less the damage. Let us just take our example of entering the EU, where we are today and where we would potentially be if we were not an EU member.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106980	The next replica of the esteemed Bellimr Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106981	Dear Minister. My question is this, regarding the euroisation that was mentioned. I don't know if you deliberately or accidentally dropped the population sector that killed you in the 2015 arguments, which is why the population in Croatia has become more and more in debt since 2015, where the ratio of loans to residents is now speaking in the population sector, 60 percent compared to kuna, 2015 was the reverse situation. So if all of this is what you're saying, then why is the population sector and growth dynamics still borrowing in kunas? And secondly, I asked people in the tram what they think and then they told me if they were going to be Minister Maric to ask him next, says if he recently refused to protect the citizens of consumers, seriously I'm telling you, from the financial hyenas who are sending us illegal debts into oblivion why do you think the MP that Minister Maric is going to protect us from the increased risks of inflation and the general introduction of the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106982	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106983	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I went to the store yesterday to prepare for this, so a lady told me, answer Mr. Troscott the following way. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. ... I'm sure, I know, I know, I believe in it completely. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] In any case, as far as the protection of citizens is concerned, and I am not anyone here from... that the whole law rests on the principle of consumer protection, the whole law, the whole concept of this process is to protect consumers that this same consumer of each of us as individuals as citizens as much as possible against the negative repercussions of these citizens and the gentleman in trams and the lady in the store have made it clear that this uncertainty and fear of rounding prices are something that kills them about the euro. So let's find ways, with all the restrictions we have, how to protect them right now. That's our job, that's our role, yeah. Why are they in debt in kunas? At that point, I'll answer in the next line, I'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106984	Next replica, the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106985	Which has nothing to do with this. Dear Ministers, this, the IDS Club, as I said at the station, has no problem with the introduction of the euro, I think it is a logical sequence of EU entry, but I will repeat that password from before, not the euro problem, the problem is money. But why would I say that? Because I don't think these banks are ours, so if we're in debt on the financial market, that money, that money needs to be paid back, and my question is when are we going to solve the problem of borrowing our country? Will we continue to depend only on whether there will be a higher or lower interest rate or whether we will finally put concrete reforms in the system of the whole process, run everything that, therefore, put into operation the whole dead capital in this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106986	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'm a little relaxed myself, I hope you don't mind. I'm sorry, I don't have that public debt graph with me right now, the public debt stake in GDP, so I'd show it. So, other than Covid year 2016, the path of public debt in GDP is exclusively downward, exclusively downward. So when we ask when we're going to start reducing, I'm telling you that it's already happened, if it wasn't for Covid, I don't really like these hypothetical ones, but I'm going to break my own, let's call it, my principle, if it wasn't Covid, at the latest this, at the end of next year, we'd already be about the public debt stake below 60%. And just a short answer, I'm going to use this previous replica, why the citizens have increased in debt or refinanced their commitments in kuna, the best of them, we can only guess. At that moment and these conditions, perhaps the perspective of the introduction of the euro was too far because at that time we couldn't even knock, or if we had knocked on the door, no one would have answered the situation with public finances. Citizens can recognize both moments and circumstances and manage their debts and obligations in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106987	Next replica, the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106988	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have repeatedly supported the euro in my views and will say so today in my debate. However, what concerns me at the European Central Bank is why I am sorry that there is no governor here today. We have something that has never happened in Europe. We have an inflation rate in France of 4% and we have inflation in Lithuania of 16%. We have the head of the European Central Bank who is the former French finance minister. Is she up for interest rates? It's not. You know why? Because raising interest rates will slow down the growth and recession that will lead. In France, it's not a problem. Lithuania is the problem. You have different and what never happened on EU soil, while it was.../incomprehensible/... while there were low inflations, was not a problem. And now you have a political problem that someone who was the head of French finances has to make a decision that will endanger France's economic growth and that's the legitimate question for us to ask, can the European Central Bank make quality decisions at such inflation differentials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106989	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106990	Thank you, well-respected replicator, for your comment, as always, a very good contribution to this debate and all you've said are facts. So these are also the data for March and April, and for all this period back several months clearly show and speak. So as with the previous replica, you will have the opportunity to see Governor Vujčić in, he answers to us, so you will call him when they are both half-yearly and annual reports, so there will be opportunities for each of these topics to discuss, but that is exactly what I was trying to do here to apostrophy and to show, however much inflation, as one that happens and which is further speeding up, unfortunately and certainly wants more in a few months that are ahead of us, to see how much it is actually really complex in itself. It is not the same in statistical and perceptive terms for individual EU member states and the European Monetary Union. However, the topic of economic growth, I will try in one of the following replicas to answer something and say on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106991	The next replica, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106992	I thank the Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, in fact, every other replica here refers to the consumer protection principle, which you said well in the introduction itself, and on the basis of this, and also what my colleague Troscott was saying, I would really like to point out, there are three EU Council Regulations that regulate the principles defined by the principles of the introduction of the euro, none of which foresees a double showing of prices, which does not oblige countries to do so. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia decided to do so, so it introduced into the provisions of this Law precisely double-priced, and that part would, in fact, commend and only prove what you said that actually this whole law was based on this fundamental principle of consumer protection. One other thing that might not have been here today, a lot of speeches, they're so-called. blacklists or bad business practices for companies that will use this opportunity, however, I would prefer, if you could say a few sentences, that the Ministry, or did you in the Ministry think about how to encourage a company or company precisely not to do so, or how, in some way, under quotes, force them to do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106993	Thank you very much. It's this last part, I'm going to go with him right now, so we're all somehow together as a society of proneness and we always want some kind of blacklist to show these or those and there, I said again, or I'll repeat, if someone does something contrary to the law in terms of recalculation, there's the State Inspectorate, the institutions that will react. However, the part where you cannot fully define what is justified, which is unwarranted, we see how much inflation is now, as far as it is going on, has nothing to do with our euro introduction process, so exogenous in full, energy prices rise, food prices rise and everything, that in these circumstances we continue to stimulate and further encourage and that competitiveness, to include civil society associations that will, of course, follow, but also try to take a slightly different view. Let's put together a list of the good ones. Not only do we look at those who have done wrong because there are a series of them, a series of them that have come to me, among other things, to meetings and said, we want everything by the rules, we don't want to be constantly characterized as black sheep. That's what we should all do, as I would say to society, ours is, of course, the greatest responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106994	Next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106995	Dear Minister, one of the teachers at N1 said that you are the best minister since you understand the macro-economics among other things. Well, a colleague of Lalovac actually asked a question that I wanted to ask about what would happen to Croatia about inflations that are different in the euro area? I'll go back to that topic I opened last time, and that's interest on the loans citizens took in kunas. You say you don't know why citizens took loans in kunas. Citizens were taking loans in kuna because they tried to be responsible, they had revenues in kunas, they wanted to have costs in kunas, they were taking fixed interest precisely to know how to place themselves, or how much to pay in the future, and now they are going to have to pay the price because of this law, or a colleague said yesterday to negotiate with banks. You must agree that the state should react because it is not the same status of citizens and banks or the same force in the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106996	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106997	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can agree in one part of your presentation and comment. The state I would say has done a lot because all these years it has affected that interest rates go down with its responsible behaviour, so interest on both euro loans and kuna loans have gone significantly down. Citizens, I will repeat that once again, I deeply believe and know with all certain problems and difficulties that they have know how to manage their finances well, and they will also have the opportunity and the power of course and their contractual relations that we cannot enter into, in fact, to refinance. At the macro level, what my colleague Lalovac said very well, we're all talking about inflation now, of course, and that's the topic, top theme, let's not forget economic growth. I wouldn't go that far, I'd go that far. I know and cooperate with Lagarde, and I very well believe that it is extremely professional and that the European Central Bank will assess the best, but we can see for ourselves that the slippery field of fight against inflation is very narrow, while at the same time the strongest tool to fight inflation is to raise interest so as not to ultimately endanger economic growth. This is a major challenge for monetary authorities, but also for fiscal ones because most of the measures to combat inflation are purely fiscal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106998	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u106999	Honorable Prime Minister of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. Entry into the euro area is a major success of this government, but it is not only the introduction of a new currency but it is also a confirmation of the fulfilment of the conditions and standards that have been accepted in EU member states. We are a country where interest on consumer loans is higher or better formulated than in euro area countries. Please, after the introduction of the euro, will the interest rate be lower, will we be able to get cheaper money, will inflation cause us during the conversion of the kuna to the euro poverty of citizens? Clearly, a fixed rate will be respected, will there also be fixed prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107000	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107001	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So no one has a crystal ball and no one can predict and say exactly what and in what way and how much something will be. However, as far as interest rates are concerned, citizens know it well, and you know it well, but let me say it again. The total interest is, in some ways, the sum of two variables, one of the reference interest rates at which countries such as Croatia, and much larger and much more economically powerful cannot influence, it is all exogenous for us. It's actually the same for everyone. But what adds to it is a risk premium, which depends on each individual country, and that is what we have done in recent years, and what the euro can actually help us to further reduce this risk premium. How much the total interest rate will depend on the movement of both variables and if we stop and reduce the risk premium, if the reference growth upstairs I can't say unequivocally if you follow only the government bond. A few weeks ago, she was 10 years old. issued for something below 3%, the same bond a year ago at 12. It was 1.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107002	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107003	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, there is a lot of questions about what the government will do to protect consumers, but my question is about what the government should have done and what it has committed to in the letter of intent that you signed with Governor Vujčić on 4 July 2019, and you have committed to improving the management of property in the public sector before the introduction of the euro and reducing the parafiscal burdens on the economy, so you stated in the action plan that you would sell stakes in 90 companies in which the state has 25% and fewer shares in ownership and reduce the natural number of parafiscal duties, so my question is very specific as usual. How many shares, how many companies have you sold and exactly how many parafiscal duties have you abolished to see if you have done everything you have to do, and we will know on this basis and will you do what you have to do now to protect consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107004	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107005	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That letter you said well and let us all remember together, mid- 2019, a beautiful year, no one has any idea that a few months after that, the coronary crisis will happen. We signed, signed by the governor and I, under the authority of the government, a letter of intent to enter the exchange rate mechanism 2, 6 areas of 19 measures. If we hadn't met them, we wouldn't have entered the exchange rate mechanism 2 and we've met, we've fulfilled everything we've committed. Also, after entering the foreign technical mechanism 2 in mid-2020, we are taking over the so-called "Technology" of the crisis. So after the entry of the obligation and I said just before at the last March session to meet all these measures. As far as the management of state property itself is concerned, things can always be better and therefore, among other things, in these measures that we have last met and that corporate governance code at OECD level, which today tomorrow we hope will be fully valid for Croatia, as well as some other measures are put into operation, and also created conditions and preconditions for a competition where we will finally start to manage state assets more actively or at least starting from what minority stakes are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107006	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107007	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to react, so Article 238 demeaning MPs and not answering, my question was very specific, you can't give me a concrete answer because you haven't sold a single share, published a tender and not sell a share is not the same thing as doing what you've committed yourself to, and also probably entrepreneurs wouldn't complain from day to day about parafiscal accusations that you've reduced their number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107008	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. Next replica, the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107009	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, so here I would first as my colleague said that Croatia really has not had such a good, serious, quality finance minister for a long time as it has been these 7 years and through all these crises that we have been going through both financial and health care you have been very serious and quality management of the Ministry of Finance and the financial system of the Croatian government at all. What was actually supposed to be about the introduction of the euro was supposed to be a beautiful event, in fact, that was meant to bring and really the most well-being of both the economy and the citizens and the financial system, it's a little corrupt, and I mean the root crisis, and especially this aggression of Russia to Ukraine that has led to these inflations and problems. And that's what maybe a little bit in some way will spoil this beautiful event that we should have seen. So financial and economy will experience stability and financial system and interest rates is the only fear of citizens. Here's how to convince them, I believe you can do it as you always could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107010	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107011	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I will try to answer your line like this. The instrument in response to the pandemic is called the EU's new generation. The most important segment of its segment, as well as when we look at our part of Croatia, is a programme for recovery and resilience. So, on the one hand, the recovery where you want to get out of the crisis as economically as soon as possible and, among other things, the significant amount of funds is being channeled into investment, but more importantly, I will personally say, the more important part is to me the one relating to resilience. Because the many experts you mention here very clearly say the crisis will come again, but we cannot know in which area and when. Unfortunately, now the recent past actually shows us that even long before anyone can predict us, we're not yet completely out of the Covid crisis we've entered a new one. And that is why it is important to be as strong as possible, more resilient to any of the following challenges. It's the best way you can protect the citizens and all of us together as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107012	Next replica, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107013	Thank you very much. Ministers of the country who are much better standing than us Sweden, Hungary, Denmark, Poland have not introduced the euro. Do they defend their national interest, and they were much earlier than we were in the EU? Do they defend their national interest or not? And another very important question I would also ask you about the CNB. Did you have to be here in front of parliamentary representatives here with you to sit a man who takes care of the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia and corresponds here to us and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because he is constantly representing himself as a defender of national interests, however, and not only around the introduction of the euro as a servant's relationship, but they are mixed gold with gold which was 15 tonnes of gold does not have a gram of gold, and all neighbouring countries all have meaning gold in their reserves, in their banks. Here's an answer to this question. Was he supposed to be governor here?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107014	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107015	Thank you, Your Honor, so as far as these other countries are concerned, I say again best to ask them both at their addresses and why and in what way and how they think, there are the most relevant answers that we do not get into any debates and situations that we may not know fully. As far as the law is concerned, you know that the government is the legislator, so we are here, as far as the governor is concerned, he participated in a session of the National Council for the euro yesterday, and I am sure knowing that he is always willing to explain anything further about the euro. Finally, what I said earlier, as I have sworn here in the Croatian Parliament and who every little invites in different ways to come to the Croatian Parliament, you have I am sure and different ways of doing business and similar to to calling along with those regular situations and some other, governor and his team to come and answer all the questions that need to be answered. However, as far as the law itself is concerned, it makes it very clear that the proponent is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107016	Replica, dear Miro Bulj, pardon the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107017	Thank you very much. Article 238 demeaning of MPs has been injured, I simply asked the Minister whether these countries are protecting national interest or... which are not introduced, which are much more developed than we are in Sweden and Croatia, we compare the Czech Republic which are much earlier than we are in Hungary, Poland in the EU, and now suddenly we are flocking to Brussels to introduce the euro to this government, and we are aware of what happened in Slovenia when it was introduced, that 7% has jumped inflation based on the euro and who knows what is waiting for us in inflation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're taking a risk just in order to reach Brussels. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107018	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107019	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, therefore, the Croatian population was affected by the rise in gas prices, fuel, electricity and prior to the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, and due to food shortages, there was still an increase in the global food market last year, i.e. a significant accumulation of food itself. Croatia has become well dependent on food production on the world market due to its failed agricultural production policy so far. The few surviving Croatian cattlemen who have loans specifically in HBOR these days because they cannot pay loans and have large wars, and at the end of the purchases that took place and up to 200-300%, the price of milk continues to be 2 kunas, sending requests to HBOR to postpone their payment, however, HBOR regularly rejects them. I'd like to know if you're following this topic, if you're following the decline in the number of economies involved, I'd say the most important production of the products, which is milk and meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107020	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The answer is that together with Minister Vukkovic and the entire government. You know that also in that package measures in response to inflationary pressures and how much mitigation of the same largest part of energy is actually food. From the very direct possibilities of helping in line with fiscal opportunities above all towards farmers, mainly fishermen, but also VAT when you look at the top of the gas the most and actually the biggest fiscal effect is actually on food products. What I'd say and what you did well at the beginning, that certain things started before the aggression itself against Ukraine. That's right. Unfortunately, how the people like to say it nicely, and that's right when they say that trouble never comes alone. As a consequence, during the covid, we were faced with significant disturbances in supply chains, so they went among other things and announced the possibilities of ending the historical period of low interest rates, i.e. the growth of interest rates. It's all more expensive than ever with geopolitical turmoil, energy crisis, and then ultimately everything spicy to say it sounds a little ugly with aggression on Ukraine. It all came in some way in the same package.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107021	Next replica, dear Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107022	Dear Minister Maric, the game of protecting citizens from savagery is over. You're too late on the field. I hear you were at the store, so you could see it on the shelves. And those prices haven't been wild since Russia attacked Ukraine if we're going to be honest. They started growing long before, so this law that deals with it right now, we're going to protect it now. It should have been if you were going to bring it in half a year, a year. But you did not answer me by guaranteeing that Croatian citizens will be better off when they lose the kuna and introduce the euro. If you can't answer that, then I ask you to at least give the public one answer for us if you have an analysis of how much on average a Croatian craftsman will earn more when the euro is introduced, than when we have a kuna. Because that's what we should be if we don't want to be just the state of services and hotels, but the state of production, so we compete. Competitive in exports should therefore be measured. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] One of your analysis, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107023	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107024	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Just before I'm also fit under any other normal circumstances, especially in this rather dynamic and turbulence very difficult because none of us have a crystal ball project, predict and say exactly what you like to say guarantee that this or that will happen. However, I will repeat again, I don't know which times, we think that the benefits of introducing the euro are significantly more than damage, so ultimately I would say and you haven't heard exactly that you are against the introduction of the euro. You're troublesome about the issue and the moment, but you could also trouble some other things and moments. We believe that we have done enough and that we will do enough to reduce all these negative effects, reduce them to the least possible measure, and benefit as much materializing as possible. Is it all so clear and explicitly possible to express? Well, it's not that simple, it's not that you're expecting a single number for a craftsman, for a citizen, for an entrepreneur. But the fact is, we finally ask both craftsmen and entrepreneurs are they for the introduction of the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107025	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107026	Article 238, even if he received a warning, was injured. Minister, you have now said yourself that given these circumstances that are at global level today, you cannot know what awaits us. Yeah, I'm not usually Just a minute. [[Intruder Marić: Guarantee.]] I'm not against the euro, but I'm against the euro at a time like this when you as a finance minister have no idea what's going to happen. So why are we introducing the euro now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107027	You used it as a replica, so you get a warning. The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107028	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, no one can vouch for anything, so neither can you. But what's important is to say that in the past, there's been a lot of shouting about how much the kuna is according to the euro and vice versa, whether it should be this big or that big, so everyone interfered in monetary, fiscal policy, etc. However, the fact is that exactly what I mentioned was that the currency risk is exactly the one that is one of the great advantages of introducing the euro. So this eliminates the very potential risks that exactly entrepreneurs and every human being significantly detimize, or in one way makes life difficult to plan any business, any private life as related, if it's about this very currency risk that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107029	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's one of the things that, of course, should always be apostrophyd and repeated. Just an act of translation and that night, a new year and so on won't immediately mean automation by all of these benefits and let's call all of these things that we're apostrophysing instantly. I was just mentioning interest issues. The moment Croatia sent this letter and we entered the exchange rate mechanism two of these were already seen, it was already seen, it was already materialized both in terms of credit rating and in terms of risk premium, i.e. interest. So these are things that can't be tied exclusively to an event as well as to what a respected colleague and representative Petrov just said before whether we were late, we weren't too late. Now you've heard from Lalovac's representative 16% inflation in the Baltic countries, 4% in France. Croatia is currently at 7 per cent. We will see the data now for April just says how complex it is and has nothing to do with introducing or not introducing the euro. This law, and if we had passed it six months ago, and in three months, he wouldn't have changed anything in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107030	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107031	Here are the respected ministers here just to say that we support the European orientation of Croatian membership in all these Euro-Atlantic alliances, and so the entry into the Eurozone and some of the issues here that have been bothering us have already been raised, so I don't repeat myself, but let's say here's a question that I may be interested in whether the state is ready, at which stage, so state companies, public administration, at which stage with its projects of changing its information systems, are they ready, what will that transition look like, and how much will it eventually cost? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107032	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107033	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's a little bit like that to say more concrete comments and questions. So the fact is huge is it's really a procedure. I've heard from banks and the financial industry several times in the past few months the same question, how safe it is to enter, seek a natural response to security. I say until the judge plays the end of the proposed game and last night's super game, until the judge plays the end is not over, it's not over, and we have to be aware, but we have to work under assumptions. The assumption is that the positive outcome will be for Croatia and therefore we must all prepare. It's big, it's a big job, right now and in front of them as far as the financial system is concerned, but believe what you've said well, both state administrations and general public administrations. All of these tiny little things that I mentioned, I mean small things, the budget is huge, but that's small compared to the total, total of what, how much, we're going to now, on the next line we're going to give all the numbers as much as we planned, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107034	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107035	That's good when there's a lot of replicas then I get a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107036	Here are the honourable ministers I would just like to agree with some MPs, with you really should be a representative from the CNB since the CNB is still one relevant factor, of course not as relevant as the European Central Bank. What I am interested in here about your exposure, given that then you are expected of course and the borrowing that might then be more favourable, does this mean that Croatia will continue to be in debt so that maybe you won't come here and so on. Greek script? I would point out that, at least according to my impression, we don't have extremely stable state finances until we say one German, larger economy, the larger banks of course have, so I wonder if we're going to experience this? Otherwise, here I support the introduction of the euro, and besides we're a small tourist country, I think there's an inflow of about two billion euros from the diaspora, and I think there's about 10 billion euros in tourism, and it's all going towards the euro, so it's kind of a natural sequence, and I'm also wondering what if the European Central Bank is going to go wild, what if that so-called. printing money, what are our defense mechanisms?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107037	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107038	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As Minister of Finance, you know that before you MPs I am always, trying to be as clear, transparent as possible, and very often see you right here on the subject of fiscal policy. I think that we can agree, regardless of the differences between us, that a lot of things have been done, but I will also be correct enough to say that we can always do better and therefore, and all the time, in some way, put our focus on the cost side of the budget as a guarantee of the long-term sustainability of public finances. The results we have, here's the MP who just showed me the movement and the path of public debt is practically everything, best shows, but fiscal policy is not isolated from that. We all need to be in the interest of maximum employment and as high as possible standards of Croatian citizens, and therefore, when the pandemic broke out, we fully became a function of preserving health, preserving the economy and jobs. We'll keep doing that. In the next line I'll take these numbers, I've got them right here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107039	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Damir Bakic. Damir Bakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107040	Thank you. Dear Minister, good afternoon. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 15. where specific rules relating to the rounding of St. 3 are mentioned, the unit prices of goods and services not shown in decimals or shown in one decimal can be applied when recalculating rounding to one decimal place. Now my understanding is that the intensity is that in these cases rounding can be applied to two decimal places, but also to one, but also to one. What concerns me, however, is that this possible lack of accuracy of this formulation, especially because it is said of products or prices of goods and services that are not shown in decimals, perhaps some interpretation in this formulation could lead to a rounding of the whole number when recalculating, therefore without a decimal place. Please comment and please check with your associates to see if this formulation should be specified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107041	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107042	We will, thank you very much, Your Honor, you're a math teacher, I won't accidentally enter this one even though I had an "A" in math and I'm guessing I know something as well, but not as close as you, so I'm gonna stick around and we'll check it out, of course. But I think most of it concerns the toll problem, the highway where we said we're not going to round up here now, so we're going to apply the same mathematical rounding rules and everything, but we're going to check everything if necessary. Let's go back, or else I'll use... The previous replicas to stay in the assembly as long as possible, because I see a number of people set up a replica for me, and then they leave, so I don't even get to answer them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the budget for this year 32.8m kuna is foreseen for the next 3.6.0.9 in '24, according to the ministries most at the Ministry of Finance, but also work, economy, justice, tourism. Also extra budget users 13.3 million this year and a million and 400 next year. Costs of adjusting the financial system they showed, not the banking part somewhere around 150 million kuna, the banking part in terms of trading transactions of 2.2 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107043	The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107044	Thank you. Again, one of the key issues has been asked again, and why we are not entering the fiscal union and I completely disagree with your optimism that we will once enter the fiscal union, but that is what people think. To get into the fiscal union means that we will have a common collection of taxes, a common budget, a common public policy, we will equalise the differences between the rich and the poor, that will not happen. Treating different ones as equal in front of money means strengthening existing differences, and that is why it is not a question of rounding prices here, it is a question of equating differences and why the Czech Republic and Poland did not enter the euro area, and it is about those countries that have most converted which have drawn closer to those most developed, while we speak in Europe of two speeds, those who enter the euro area at the second speed than the poor, those who first entered the first speed did not enter the euro zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107045	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107046	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Just this first part when you said you weren't sharing my optimism, I wasn't even trying to show it, I was answering the subject where we were talking about the fiscal union. I personally and my entire team who participate once a month in meetings of the Council of Ministers of Finance all six and a few years, when the tax issue is always extremely constructive in terms of finding ways to combat certain types of tax fraud, but also in terms of tax policy, that among other things we see all the specificities of individual countries, and among other things, when you remember that last performance and at the Council of Ministers' level on additional benefits, let's say as far as the value added tax is concerned, I said that as far as our tax system is concerned, I do not see it so positive because I believe that our tax system should go further in the direction of simplification, simplification. Unfortunately, that provision did not go. However, we are part of the family, we are part of the EU, it is much, much and far from the topic which you and the distinguished representative Hajdas Doncic have opened fiscal unions, and we have yet to start thinking and talking about. So optimism or pessimism on that subject is very far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107047	The next replica, the esteemed Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107048	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. There's a lot of big words that the average educational man doesn't understand, what I know, I didn't go to the market, but I know whenever I'm somewhere and I'm talking to people or I'm just listening to what someone's talking about, we know for a fact that one of the main mantras in the Croatian people is, you'll see just how much prices will rise when we introduce the euro. This law in one part very well and precisely defines protective mechanisms or possibly even criminal provisions for someone who does this to the detriment of Croatian consumers. In my first reading, I asked in the replica whether certain civil society associations would be involved, so to speak. Consumer protection organisations that could help implement laws or protect consumers from unauthorized and unwarranted price hikes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107049	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree with what you said and the answer is yes to this last part, that's what I said first. We have looked at the experiences of other countries than our closest neighbours in Slovenia via Slovakia and the Baltic countries to which we may have put the greatest emphasis with due respect to Cyprus and Malta, yet they are a little more specific and geographically distant from us, it was precisely an example that in addition to this legislative framework that we define as the bodies of the state government where, of course, we have certain bodies that will react if someone really comes to miscalculation or similar damage to consumers, but let us also call this such an important but not so clearly defined concept of an increase or justified or unwarranted increase in prices to include civil society associations. Some funds have already been planned for 700 and some thousand kunas at the last estimates this year, but these funds can easily be increased whether in the budget rebalancing that we will have next week on the government, whether in some redistributions and simply to include them among other things and I think I can make a positive contribution alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107050	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107051	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor. Here we often hear here that it's not the time, that this isn't a good time, and if man could look at that magic ball and see what time is good, he'd be much smarter. I think that every time we prepared well for a good time, it was seen in 2013. when we have entered the EU and well that we are a member of the EU and I think we should appreciate it. What needs to be protected in any case are Croatian consumers, there will be petty thieves, criminals who will want to increase prices by translating the kuna into the euro, and not for a little while but put them in some European frameworks that we may not be up to right now, but a propo of just what my colleague Bulj said. My sister lives in Sweden, there is a crown, she sent 500,000 crowns, and the Croatian bank is here kuna paid her 320,000 kuna, so 80,000 kuna paid for the conversion from the crown to the kuna. If we had the euro, there would be absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107052	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107053	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what it might be that I would say through these exchange jobs closest to the citizens and tell a deeply Eurosed, highly Eurosed society and the economy certainly further facilitates and simplifies this story in some way, which is a small and respected representative of Dretar said that we need as simple and plastic as possible to approach and approach citizens because of course not all economic and financial experts, but they know well enough and understand life experience above all possible books and titles. In any case, both this example and these exchange jobs as well as some others are things that are certainly useful, but I am glad that in our discussions we are actually putting more emphasis on these potentially negative as small as they are, but we need to be clear with them, we must not ignore them, we must not stare at them and do everything in fact that they repeat by not knowing which times they are as small as possible, so negative effects as little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107054	Next replica, respected representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107055	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. For a fair Croatia club strongly supports Croatia's entry into the euro zone, it is a society that seeks and insists on discipline and order. You are a seven-year minister, overseeing the rest of the ministries, and let's say outgoing Minister Coric said in his programme in the ministry's document that 63,000 solar units would be installed in Croatia, after his term, he managed to install only 3,000. On the other hand, Minister Aladrovic said in this same house that there are 20,000 of the most vulnerable families in Croatia to receive monthly 800 kuna, and at the end of his term he managed to find only 5,000 such families, these 15,000 were suspended. And in the end, the health care you were trying to intervene in, we don't see the results. How do you think the system will work if the ministry itself Are they the ones that are causing the problem? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107056	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107057	Thank you very much. A lot of topics, it's hard to answer in 60 seconds, but also a segment of energy that has been given a much greater focus in all circumstances, I deeply think of energy with food which some of the MPs have just said, extremely important perhaps and crucial and shows, these two crises actually show how important it is to work on exactly that so-called. self-sufficiency in some broader context, of course, by respecting all possible market principles, etc. Through the labour market I know, and I also worked very well with colleague Aladrović, who you said and certain figures and standards, a very, very complex portfolio and I think he did a very good job and as regards the pension system and social policy, as well as the labour markets and finally to our favorite or common health issues for which he is speaking and is beginning to publicly present the outlines of what should be a health reform. So what we all agree as necessary is also financially sustainable as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107058	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107059	In breach of Rules of Procedure 238, the answer to the MP, Mr. Minister, you are a 7-year-old minister, the most important position, most important of all by Prime Minister Plenkovic, I am now confident that you are aware of this. However, as you explain that in your term, 240,000 Croatian citizens have been completed and we have done absolutely nothing to at least reduce in 7 years, let's say 1,000. Why, what's the problem? Don't wave my head, 242,000 official document Fine. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107060	I can't answer you... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107061	You used this for the replica of the minister, so you get a warning. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107062	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, by signing the EU accession treaty, Croatia has taken over the entire acquis, and thus the introduction of the euro when the conditions are met. I am sure that by introducing the euro, it will contribute to more stable economic opportunities, greater investment, better credit ratings, as you yourself said in your debate. This today is the most important act we are discussing when it comes to the introduction of the euro. You have a lot of work to do, but for the purposes of Croatian legislation, it will be necessary to adapt a number of legislative and sublegislative acts, so my question to you is, do we have enough time to coordinate, which can be coordinated in parallel with the introduction of the euro and which of the regulations may not even need to change this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107063	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107064	Thank you very much. A brief answer, so time never enough and enough, but we have to have it, we have to find it. And it's a very clear and unequivocal response and Benzem came out yesterday because of the cramps until the finals will recover and will certainly be great again in the field. So we, however much time we have and as limited as we can use it in the best possible way. And as far as this question is concerned, I'm not so that you wouldn't misrepresent me as a representative I didn't nod my head or do some gesture or body language of this to you or give God to those who did it, but I just apostrophe that it wasn't exactly true, not that it wasn't, but that it wasn't true when you said we didn't do anything at all. In fact, you know for yourself that through the Croatian Parliament we have changed certain acts to contribute among other things and how much we have affected the reduction of that number. However, something that has been done before and which did not occur overnight cannot be solved by any movement of feathers, let us call it that. So the figures of the FINE that are published at the monthly level are best spoken of which I now mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107065	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107066	Mr. Minister, you are a man of numbers, as you have now told our unfathomable rector that he is a mathematician and that you understand very well mathematics. I agree that you understand mathematics but you must understand that FINA presented the official data in 7 years of your term you have not reduced one number by one completed Croatian citizen, these are figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107067	This was your replica again, so you get a second warning. Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107068	Thank you. Respected ministers in the national plan for the introduction of the euro were envisioned blacklists. They got lost by the first reading. In our first reading, we repeatedly spoke and asked for and asked for blacklists to return because there are objective results in our neighbouring Slovenia. You were then talking about white lists, okay, but now we don't have black or white, we have nothing except in the explanation of article 8, article No. 8. there is an ethical code, but that ethical code is entered voluntarily. So it's not some safe mechanism again, of course, I'm talking about consumer protection. Well, here, we're going to amend to look for blacklists, but here I am asking you to explain to us or to support that blacklists that have had results in Slovenia yet in this country are unfortunately necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107069	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107070	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for mentioning you, so I don't have to do this as the first. The example of Slovenia is almost identical to what we propose. So also there were civil society associations in a certain way following in cooperation with state bodies whether something black, white or any kind of list, we called it going to be some kind of portal where people would also be able to send some of their comments. Among other things, be it apostrophe for good or for bad. But I repeat again, so we're down or we're down to it as if we're going to solve some problem to put someone on the blacklist, which means ultimately. Is that gonna solve all the problems? And let's look at today's situation, can we today all these prices that are in the shops be apostrophe that are exclusively and entirely identical to the price of individual inputs, whether we can apostrophe, I don't know sunflower oil from 17.99 in the store whether it's just all about the rise in the prices of individual inputs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107071	Followed by a replica of a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107072	Thank you very much. Ministers, I will agree with those who have said that it is a little difficult to discuss monetary policy without the one who implements monetary policy in Croatia, which is the governor. You're in charge of fiscal, but fine. When we talked about interest rates, risks, methods of calculation, etc., you mentioned the refinancing of debts that will be available to our citizens but I must draw attention to the fact that our citizens are not highly written. Or I'd like to know whether the ministry will have certain campaigns, first of all, media to sensitize and direct the public, give them some recommendations, we've heard something about an application that's supposed to be, etc., etc. I just hope that if such campaigns are going to be, it won't be a fiasco like that vaccination campaign. And another question, the Law of Public Order and Peace provides for penalties in the German March. Are we going to change it in due time because now it's going to turn out that the fines are calculated by converting the German stamps into kunas that we left behind, and the German mark doesn't exist and then recalculating into the euro. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107073	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107074	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have to make a little joke again, this fly that just attacked me, I thought it came from the opposition, but now I see that it's going to the opposition and the position and it's flying well into the assembly. The joke aside again. Yes, it will, there will be campaigns. There are colleagues in the Ministry of Finance who are in charge of the financial system, precisely financial literacy, this is one like this, I would say, interinstitutional cooperation and regulators and bodies of the state administration and users themselves in terms of banks and others, to get as close as possible. I personally like it the most when my colleagues inform me that the Ministry of Finance is coming to us, I don't know, the class of this primary or secondary school, which is good to have that level of education and bring and work and at as much as possible at an earlier age, call it that. This second part, just remind me, the German stamps, yes, it will be somewhere, 70 laws you'll be discussing this year, we'll pass the laws in a package, there are such cases, you've well apostropheeded them, we've looked at the experiences of some other countries, there are still other countries of such situations, we'll try to correct, of course, during the adoption of the euro, and also since we're talking about hundreds of acts that will also, after the introduction of the euro, be subcessionally changed. They are not crucial to the process of introducing the euro itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107075	Followed by the replica of the respected representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107076	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor. I think it is clear from your presentation that for the Republic of Croatia more than important is the introduction of the euro as an official currency, both for citizens, both for the economy, for our exporters, for the tourism sector, for goods transport, etc. Given the various signs in the media, I am interested in the cost of introducing the euro, is it possible to quantify what the main costs are, are they one or more times, which was their estimated value, and if time allows, which is and what is their reflection on inflationary movements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107077	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Even in that document, there, it's already his anniversary, 4, is it, we've been trying to bring all these benefits together that we've said are not only stronger than the negative foreign euros, but they're also continuous in contrast to these cost, negative things that are, practically, one time. But I'll say again, as I did to these distinguished colleagues before you responded to the replicas, those negative ones we need, I'd say, a little and more of this, to focus and take into account our discussions as well. Otherwise, for the end, here, it's my last piece of replica, of course, it's still big numbers, nobody runs away from them and doesn't geneaze them overnight, but from 2018 to here, from 325 thousand to 240 thousand is the number of those who are under blocks, i.e. the official statistics of the Financial Agency, FINA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107078	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion was reported on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107079	Thank you very much, dear ministers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS supports the introduction of the euro, since the first day of full integration and the EU, the single monetary policy is a logical sequence and we have no problems with that. But key questions remain open. What are our goals, and what is our direction toward these goals? Do we want to be a society of creation, progress, or a society of entertainment, decadents? A society of experiences or a society of content? A company of production or company only and exclusively a service? What about modern green industries that are priority areas and why are you right there? When and how are we going to become energy independent? How many power plants in how many areas? How many of them suns, how many winds, how many gasses, how many others? What about electric cars, tracking infrastructure, what about hydrogen as fuel? What about using EU funds? From the solidarity fund so far, at least until yesterday it was agreed with 4%. Why don't we have developmental tech parks on abandoned state property? Why do we even have an abandoned state property that hasn't been translated for purpose? What kind of master of state is that? Uncontrolled tourism, uncontrolled construction or sustainable tourism and planned urbanism? Where's our national spatial plan? Who are the new tourist capacities actually being built for when we have to import labour, and when we talk about the workforce, which is actually the workforce we want to create, and when and how do we plan to introduce it into the education and scientific system? How do you solve the problem of permanent borrowing of our country? Let's move on. Does anyone think of stopping the illegal construction at last, creating a society that respects Croatian laws? Does anyone finally think of taking a little more firm and clearer attitudes, taking appropriate steps to respect the Constitution-guaranteed rights of weaker, less numerous, unprotected in our society? How much did we recognize in the work of our external diplomacy? How much do others experience and respect us both in the neighborhood and beyond? How long between the two full-fledged EU Member States will we be physically separated by a razor wire? If it moves, it will be the result of parliamentary elections in Slovenia, not the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's move on. I don't think that's necessary. Although at first it seems that what I'm saying has nothing to do with today's proposal for a Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, which I repeat, is not a subject for us, it's okay. This only makes sense because the euro will be just a currency, a new currency. The real value of this currency will only create a real economy and a regulated state with clear long-term objectives. So that the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia is the smallest problem, will actually bring some advantages. But all the things I've listed and a lot of what I'm not are real problems, the challenges of Croatia. And that's what we need to talk about, talk about, talk about, talk about. A good part of deciding by consensus if necessary. I think we've always been correct here, we'll still be. Because that's the only way we're gonna get out. In all the other scenarios, we'll be just one of the cars in the composition that the other draws, and that car out there somewhere, to begin, unfortunately, that composition. In short, I don't take too much longer if it doesn't come to an urgent approach, but to full reform, not cosmetic, complete reform and system, but also to society if it doesn't come to an emergency, we'll have the euro, but to get back to the beginning, we won't have the money, or what we'd say down in Istria, and when there's no school, then you're foresight in your choir, then you're a stranger in your own backyard. Let's not afford it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107080	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representatives Troscott and Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107081	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected peoples who follow. First of all, we'd like to address the persons of the Ministry of Finance and thank you. It is not easy to write a law especially this much content to translate and try to put it all in the context of Croatia it is not a bit easy. However, what we always do at the MOST Club is actually give the context of a certain law, which is that the adoption of this law is not actually a good time, or the MOST Club thinks that this is not a good time to introduce the euro. So, while the war is spreading to Ukraine, we do not know how it will end, while inflation is spreading across the European and American continents, while even recessions are announced in front of the US and European economies we think it is not good to do these kind of shocks for the Croatian structural economy that is not ready for even the average of the euro area. Because we need to know that our economy is more service-oriented, i.e. towards tourism and that it's about an average of the euro area, that it's more productively oriented. And if, for example, an economic crisis occurred in the euro area, for example in one Belgium or, for example, in Croatia, the EU would certainly go to save Belgium for reasons that more this economy is similar to what is in the euro area. So what we would definitely like to point out here is not only the sadness, but the disappointment that in two readings here in the Croatian Parliament is that the governor of the CNB is not present because it is precisely an institution that is listed as the main institution for protecting, or defending the national currency. The CNB was supposed to be here today. Maybe the governor today's Pope's fine steak made to him by the masterchef, perhaps Mrs. Schvaljeg over Mr. Hrebac is watching as he ends up again at the office of the vice governor, but he knows that Mr. Hrebak won't give up that position because he won the daily show on HRT called "With Hrebak at 10". It used to be called "Open," but every day when you look at Mr. Hrebak in 10, so that's the price you get with the political trade. Indeed, the gentleman on the tram asked me, says if you're going to see the finance minister ask him today how he thinks he's going to protect us with increased euro risks unless he protects people from the Agency for the collection of claims that send illegal charges. Those are legitimate questions. Therefore, as regards the economy itself, the high level of openness is also seen in the assessment of the economic situation in the country which is measured by the ratio of exports and imports and that share will not change by entering the euro area. So the structure of Croatia's economy will not change. And therefore, the argument that the largest part of our trade exchange is taking place in the EU is correct, but we are not completely comprehensive. The introduction of the euro reduces the risk of foreign exporters and does not increase the competitiveness of Croatian products. Therefore, only membership in those prior organisations does not provide EU integration with development. The development is ensured by national, economic policies that Croatia does not have. By entering international organisations without all domestic development policies, Croatia is becoming easily preyed on by global speculators. And he's already warned about that. I'm on my way. Just along the way, Nobel Prize winner Privic, whose economic policies MOST disagree entirely. But here he's right when he says it's not the time, the Croats be careful not to enter the eurozone. And he said that European exporters are those who ask Greece, for example, for the Netherlands, to increase the fresh milk, or the days of the fresh milk, from 4 to 11 days so that GMO milk can then be exported to Greece. Greece no longer has any mechanism to protect it. The thesis of easy prey was confirmed by the governor of the Central Bank of Slovenia, who otherwise defended his tolar, i.e. the euro, or arguments. Mitja Gaspari, when Croatians said, must remember as new members one thing about the European Central Bank's policy is one monetary policy regardless of what economic movements are in certain countries. And this policy always or almost entirely corresponds to Germany, and significantly less corresponds to individual euro area members.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107082	Dear MPs and MPs, respected finance ministers, Croatia is not ready for the introduction of the euro at the moment, the Croatian economy is not ready. And if we could honestly and honestly say that what I'd like to hear, I know that the Minister of Finance can't tell me because it currently represents a government, but I'd be very interested in the answer that by any chance the Minister of Finance is an independent economic analyst at this point, to see all the problems facing the Croatian economy, to see all the unmade reforms, all the places problematic in the state sector, all the untapped opportunities and assets, to see all the problems currently facing the world at global level, to see the inflation that is wild in different countries at different levels and to know that it can't be predicted at all what will happen in half a year, would he then as an independent economic analyst say I think it would be good to wait. I believe you would. And I think we should all be in the interest of protecting the state, protecting Croatia regardless of what has been achieved in the last year, two days, and it has been achieved enough. We can't slave for what we've done, so after that, keep doing it if everything tells us absolutely that we're not going, at least not now. What exactly is Croatia's benefit at this time besides the elimination of currency risk, which is exactly the benefit? Who calculated exactly, so at least roughly calculated how much Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs will be able to achieve more, be able to gain more income, or is it also unknown? Have either of you calculated how much or what an inflation shock will look like, how much further prices will rise for this? That's information to go public with. That's the information that citizens need to know at the end. And I think we can all assume that the story will go. I beg you don't slave to the project you started because at this point it stops being an economic project, it's a political project. You don't enter the euro zone, you don't remove your own currency just because it's on your checklist. It is introduced at the time when it suits Croatia. Croatia is not responding to the euro at this time. If you could guarantee something and so I asked you during your presentation, which is exactly what you guarantee, that Croatian citizens will be better, that Croatian craftsmen, entrepreneurs, would be better off, if you had something to guarantee, if you gave it to the public, if you gave an analysis that you know they'd be better off with, I would say great, so at least we'll know what to measure you by. The answers to both you today and everyone else, we don't know, these are the times, we can't judge, no one can judge. And then I logically ask you, if no one can assess why we're going crazy, why at this point, and that's why I'm telling you right now Croatia is not ready for the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107083	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107084	Thank you very much, Vice President. The respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, amongst the two readings there were no major changes, were more of a termological nature, so I will look back at certain elements in the debate, and about the introduction of the euro, with an emphasis on what should have been done, and not of course on the elements of consumer protection that at the moment when inflation at historically high levels is really crucial. In fact, it is not the time for the introduction of the euro today that many independent economists speak, reputable both in the Republic of Croatia and beyond. But the introduction of the euro today is not at all an economic issue because neither the citizens will live better afterwards, nor will the economy be easier to do business. The introduction of the euro is currently a purely political issue and should also be seen and monitored. I have to ask one question that's crucial. Will living standards and purchasing power rise? The answer is unfortunately not. In fact, it's going to fall further, and we're going to live worse, and the standard of living is going to fall further. These measures provided for in this bill are essentially a reflection of the government's inability to protect consumers. And let's take it in order. The blacklists envisaged as a mechanism have somehow disappeared in the meantime, although the measure has been confirmed to be very effective. In that article, too, I also spoke in my first reading, for it really opens up a whole series of questions. It is stated that all institutions that, without justifiable reason, start to raise prices should not do so. And I really do when I read it, then I get the feeling that the government lives either in some bubble or in a balloon or in a parallel universe, because prices are growing every day. And no one knows why and how and what's justified and what's unwarranted. Well, here I would like us rulings to say what are the increases in the prices that we witness daily, justified, which are unwarranted. How, what's the methodology that we're going to figure it out. So everything not only increases the price of food products, but also the cost of utility services. It's about the energy not to talk. And the oil from 10 kuna went to 20 kunas, flour also, collected 100 percent. Is that justifiable or unwarranted? Is the share of energy costs so much that these products have to collect 100%. And we came to this extent that in a small town in Slavonia 50% of the cost of maintaining a cemetery. What's causing it? Is that justifiable or unwarranted? Last week, Minister Maric came out with a convergence programme, and it is very clear that this year, we have been told that our salaries will not be followed by inflation. They will not grow enough to monitor inflation that is otherwise three times larger in that document than it was in the projections when we adopted the budget. Well, that was recently, it wasn't that far. So, as far as forecasting is concerned, we're not doing very well. However, in this document, the government has some measures to protect consumers. He says this, the government encourages business entities to do reliable and transparent business when introducing the euro. The government is in motion. For now, tactics don't bring fruit, believe it won't come into the future. Furthermore, there is an Ethics Code but this Ethics Code will be joined by business entities voluntarily I will not. Why didn't you prescribe that at least all state-owned business entities or in whose country has shares must access the Ethics Code, which is not a small number. It's a large number of business entities. Then comes a new application. Nothing can go wrong with us without a new application, no epidemic, and no introduction of the euro. In the application, citizens will have the opportunity to write complaints and praises, but only for business entities who have voluntarily joined the Ethics Code and only during the obligation to double-price. So, dear citizens, you'll be able to sue yourself on the Internet as long as it takes to double the prices and only for those business entities who have voluntarily accepted the Ethics Code. I have to ask myself, do you really think that's enough to protect consumers? I don't think so. And do you really think that this is going to get any result except that our citizens are going to have another blow-out valve on the Internet and on social networks? That's what they're doing right now. Then they plan to include consumer protection organisations, they will monitor, assess whether price increases are justified or unwarranted. The legitimate question is whether these associations have sufficient financial and human resources to do so. With such a large state apparatus, which has Croatia and many unemployed in many agencies, and I mainly think about the Competition Protection Agency, the associations will now do all the work related to the assessment and analysis of price increases in the introduction of the euro. It's not bad to include the NGO sector. They need to be encouraged, they need to be more active, but in one big step like this, it is more like the one “my concern to the other. ” From all the above, we can only conclude that, as with this package, a measure that was in principle good, I think is not enough under these new circumstances, but in principle it is well done. I commended him. So, as with this, the introduction of the euro on the market is really going to be everything. There'll be money in the blurry. How much of this association will be able to monitor and control this is indeed a big question. And what we can for sure without a crystal ball can be hardened by today is that the result will be lower purchasing power and lower standard of our citizens, because the prices will increase further and the wages will not. The pay won't follow. It's in the Convergence Programme, but this year it won't follow inflation, it won't follow this either. The introduction of the euro exclusively and currently the political issue with the economy has little to do with it, and it is also confirmed by the facts, means related to certain activities that the government should have done before the euro was introduced. So the money fiscal burdens weren't reduced in that volume as planned. If you don't believe me, ask the entrepreneurs. Neither the number, nor the height, has been reduced to make business easier for entrepreneurs. Also, shares in companies where the state has 25% or less or has no control package have not been sold. To open a tender that nobody answers is not enough. Publicly, the most pressing are the topics related to the technical elements of money exchange, but for the general public it is really not crucial. It is also stressed that there will be no transaction costs, but this is not and cannot be a key reason for such a serious thing when Croatia renounces its monetary sovereignty as a whole. All of this will not go away without expenses of 2 billion kuna, and now we read that the CNB will spend almost 30 million on a marketing campaign related to the introduction of the euro. Why is it that if you're so convinced that the people want the euro so badly? Apparently, the public is turning against it. And finally I'll just say, the residents of our beautiful ours prepare for a new wave of gatherings that obviously no one will control and Croatian sovereigns will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107085	A debate will follow on behalf of Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107086	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, and I will begin my debate by continuing to question whether the minister as an independent analyst would support the import of the euro. I am absolutely sure that because he knows this government, he knows the ability of this government, see how this country works in crisis, knowing all of this is our only chance for someone else to take better care of us than we do ourselves. So either an independent or an independent analyst should support the introduction of the euro because, as we see now, Sweden, Finland, which for years wanted to be independent, independent, did not want to be in some group because the group cost, to be in NATO cost. Now that the problem has come, they've decided to join the group they belong to. And here we return to the key question whether this is the introduction of the euro politically or economically, that it is political. And this is one of the political things that Croatia had a consensus on, the absolute consensus probably existed on that we want our independence and that we want to be part of the EU, or a circle of countries to which we belong historically, to which we belong culturally. So the introduction of the euro itself is a continuation of this policy. In my last debate when the first reading was then I explained the context of how the idea of the euro itself was created some 50, 60 years ago and how today's environment is almost similar to what was then and how the ideas that then led EU leaders are very similar to the ideas, today's problems we face, and how we would like to solve them. And then you have to ask yourself a key question, there was no debate about him today, and that is how much Croatia is prepared, how much Croatia has prepared for the introduction of the euro itself, which it has done in terms of the Croatian economy, what it has done in terms of Croatian social welfare, what it has done in terms of Croatian education, what Croatia has done in terms of what monetary policies say and then ask itself a very simple question or you give a very simple answer, nothing. She was sitting under a beech waiting for the pear to fall. As we know beneath the beech, no pear has fallen, but we are still going down a path which, I must admit, is that Europe knows more or less what it wants, it's bad because we don't know what we want in that Europe. Because the ability of some state to be interesting to others is, in fact, in the strength of its economy and the competence of its people and its influence in the world that practically stems from it. And then ask yourself, where is Croatia in all of this? There is no current minister but his associates know the entire Republic of Croatia has 2.5 times less GDP than one city of Munich. And now I'm asking you which sovereignty, how much can we be sovereign in a world where a city and not a big, huge city is 2.5 times more important than the Republic of Croatia. So to belong to Europe, to be part of Europe, I have several times used the Syntagma of the United States of Europe is good. I think all the benefits the Croatian economy will receive by introducing the euro are good. What's he gonna lose? I have to admit I don't see what, which could be lost by introducing the euro because the fact that we didn't have monetary policies, the fact that all the instruments we had by law to strengthen that economy didn't benefit us. In what way the colleagues who advocate here think that some moment would be better than this. I think that every moment before this would be better than this, and every moment after this will only be worse than this because we say that we have our own currency that has been tied to the German mark for the past 30 years, and today to the euro and where the CNB task we mentioned several times today, but we also mentioned it in the debate when we talked in the first reading and expressed hope that the CNB will appear here because one of the main tasks of the CNB is price stability, and the key thing for the citizens of this country should be that price stability, or what will happen with the ratio of their incomes and their costs when we enter the EU. I don't know who it was supposed to be after this speaker expressed his desire to come here from the CNB and explain what was going to happen, call the CNB, but whoever or may have invited them, and they didn't answer. So not to support the introduction of the euro today, I think it's wrong because that way we would simply say that we do not want to belong in a circle of countries where we truly belong in culture. So I call on all those who, in some ways, are trying to explain to the citizens that the introduction of the euro is something that will cost them. It will cost them only in the part where the state was supposed to react, and that was my question to the minister and to the board and which is why I would really like the CNB to come, which is a question of interest rates for citizens who agreed loans in kunas, when banks and states called on them to take loans in kunas because they earn in kunas because it is responsible. And today, when these citizens have accepted what the state has called them to be responsible for, today this same state does not want to protect them but leaves them as colleagues say free agreement with banks, and we are all aware that any of us when they come to a bank institution is not exactly equal, and in particular is not equal if they have to ask for a loan. They say their colleagues go to the refinancing, I ask them if they looked at how many people today can no longer get the credit they once got because their terms are no longer the same because their pay and debt ratio is not such as to cover that they can get the funding, so when you come with such a condition in front of the bank I ask you in which way you can negotiate. And there was the task of this law. This law is not really worth the paper it's written on. This law simply said everything the state needed to take, the state transferred to someone else or by a liberal model, it would regulate the market. We see today that the market regulates a little bit of things. There was a question at the outset why inflations were different in different countries, and perhaps in France there was less inflation not only because their President of the European Central Bank but because they had elections and so far President Macron was not responsible for high inflation and dissatisfied citizens, so as a state, she reacted in some way. Whether or not they will react, in fact they are now going to have other choices and may react for some time, and then, according to the liberal doctrine, they will say, "Let the market deal with it." So I invite you all to support the introduction of the euro because I think it's essentially good for this country, and the government has shown how capable it is of regulating the currents that are happening in this society has actually shown that it is incapable of doing it so that we hope for the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107087	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representatives Hajdas Doncic and Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107088	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So, the subject is of course the euro, but I would ask the first question which is actually money, and that's the answer that's actually the euro. So it's a public good that at all times rests on political decisions, relations with institutions, and that's your whole story of the euro. I repeat, political decision, institution relations. What do we have and what should we actually follow right now? And the war in Ukraine which is part of the story, but not the whole picture, but should follow that the US is in the first quarter of the downfall, should follow that the average price of the oil brand is $160 in March, that the natural gas price is wild, and in 50 to 60 days, perhaps as much as 60 European Councils will almost certainly decide that Croatia has met the criteria for introducing the euro, of course after the convergence report by the European Commission and the European Central Bank. Why? Because the euro rests on a political decision, relations and institutions, as the US dollar rests on US destroyers and missile carriers. He's not resting on anything else. Now after this drying-out, to say the fact that it's the euro, which is money, what is monetary policy we should go back to some key issues, and what is that? So that's what people are interested in, but not even in the store anymore in the bar. I'll make a little joke. So, people still today don't know what exchange rate is going to be, and it's probably going to be 7-5, 3.4.5, they don't know what nobody actually knows, will inflation delay the exchange of the kuna with the euro? That's probably not gonna happen. Will the euro be paid more to buy now or leave the kuna on the bill even though there are no fees? What about the interest rate on the loan? Nothing. Will traders try to sew something up by rounding prices? Well, he probably will, and that's connected to your ankle. In 44th of this law, which is technically correct, to commend you, the CNB wrote it probably but irrelevantly. Now for all these answers that I just started, there was supposed to be some kind of strategy, a strategy of introducing the euro that has not been in Croatia since 2017, and that's the article of Law number 11, so even Mr. Plenkovic doesn't show up too much, and Boris Vujčić here I don't see who was supposed to be sitting with you today, but he's given a phenomenal statement today, a phenomenal statement, he said in two months he's moving production into three euro shifts. So it turns out that we in Croatia are probably just going to produce eus, end quotes. In three shifts, they'll produce the euro without me answering any other questions. For example. What I think citizens here are supposed to know about the euro, you probably don't know either, but it doesn't matter, not to offend you. So I'd ask who actually decides who's voting on monetary policy? What will be the voting weight of the Croatian governor? So that's not what we're talking about. Who adopts the rules governing the operations of the European Central Bank? Who oversees the European Central Bank? Perhaps private bankers from the background can make decisions on monetary policy. Well, then someone from the sovereigns or I think you were, but that's okay, you asked why Czechs, Poles and Hungarians don't rush into the euro area, are they some other people or maybe not, maybe they know something that we Croats don't know and the citizens of the Republic. And one key question that most people probably feel and what's true. Aren't European institutions full of career bureaucrats who care little about people's interests? They are definitely especially a banking elite separate from the real sector. And then we have another story. Look, we have definitely a transfer of monetary sovereignty, so we're going to lose some of our historical symbols, like the Jelician Ban, Marulic, so again in people, it can cause some fear and panic without thinking about the quality of living standards and our future... who will rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I'm not going to quote Berosch, Berosh was telling you that, every hour, every hour is important, but that's one story I'm telling you. So, if you're already late, doing plagiarisms as far as the Kuna is concerned... The CNB may not be yours either, but right now in the next few months it's crucial for you, the impression will be important for the introduction of the euro, the impression of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107089	Here's a thank you. Dear Ministers with, uh, associates, so I can continue what my colleague Hajdash said. It is now before the government or the government has taken over that part of the introduction of the technical euro, but in fact the responsibility of the CNB and I am saddened that today and the last time I spoke here, it was still not agreed to come, that the governor would come here, right? Because all these questions that we asked the Minister today are questions for the CNB. And I am sorry that today in these answers to the Croatian public in this high house, he was not there and answered these questions. It's just that again today it's been left unaccounted for. What is going to happen, to say very clearly, what is going to happen is that for the first time in the EU we do not know, and if he knows whether or not he will rise, yesterday he announced the rise in the ECB's interest rate, how the ECB will react in different countries, how we will benefit there, etc. And here today, what were all these questions? It's relocated to the government, the CNB's gone, and we might ask him that when he brings some half-yearly report here, it doesn't matter, that's when it's over. And it's about communicating with me that the most important things about the CNB are that it's gone again. They are not there when the issue of inflation needs to be answered, but the minister answers them, and they are not when it comes to the answers of the euro, the minister responds. So unfortunately, all of our appeals to be brought here from the CNB to answer now, now is their moment to sow, to answer all our questions, they're gone. Unfortunately, it's a bad time for communication. They're investing 27 million kunas in communication with citizens for that. So they missed that opportunity. Just for a little while here, maybe for a part, we can convince a number of citizens about the euro. We may have forgotten here our most important part of the economy that is important for our balance of payments, for our structural change, and these are exporters. I think they most welcome this part of the introduction of the euro because let's not forget today and Podravka and many other companies when they produce in Croatia, where they get oil, they get it outside and where they pay it, they don't pay oil in kunas, they pay it in euro. They get gas, where they pay for it, they pay for it in euros. They get raw materials, they get them in euro. And what do they sell? They sell in kunas, and only when exchange rates on exchange rates can lose 5 to 10%, 5 to 10%, which means our companies will be 5 to 10% less competitive than European companies. They lost at the course, at the course differences. And that is what has plagued the best part of the Croatian economy for many years: exporters who create jobs, who fight on the European market, who improve our balance of payments and who are the healthiest part of this society. They do not seek subsidies, they are in a fierce European struggle. And that's why the introduction of the euro is the most important thing for them because there will be no such exchange rate differences, and we know what the exchange rate differences were like for citizens. No citizens will have them in the future, and what the minister said will reduce the risk premium. And that is why I do not believe that the long-term margins in Croatia are still bigger, banking margins than they are in the EU. And the bankers talked all the time because we pay an expensive risk premium in Croatia. Well, now we won't pay it anymore we'll be even on the market now we expect that what the bankers said will cut their margins because they had to pay at the risk premium on Croatian bonds and now you don't have any more, and now you're going to cut the interest to see if you will now have lower interest on the European single market. That's why I expect not to increase if that part, but to decrease. And these are those contributions for small economies such as Croatia eat. But it certainly has to be mentioned once again by the exporters here because I think they've had a problem for all these 30 years with exchange rate policy, all the time where it's been said that it suits an import lobby, etc. and some stories were prevailing in that context. And because of that opinion, I think that part of the transaction costs, the currency costs, all of these, which was actually long said to be positive for Croatia. However, I am still saying how will the European Central Bank behave and what will the Fed do? 'Cause let's not forget about printing money. Yesterday, the Fed cut down, raised interest rates. So you know why? Well, that's how much money they printed that's amazing. Since 2020 alone, the FED's total balance sheet has been $5,000 billion. You know what it's like today? $9,000 billion. 1,000 billion dollars was the FED's balance sheet in 2008. They printed money, and that's why Americans do it. But we don't have that story, and that's why I think that much more positive is the introduction of the euro, but we also need answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107090	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives of Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107091	Thank you, Chairman. The respected ministers and associates, therefore, are naturally ungrateful to speak after the former finance minister. But what I'm going to say, I'm going to speak from the perspective of citizens and those issues and those misunderstandings and those losses that we've encountered among our fellow citizens. So, of course, no one could predict this terrible war in Ukraine that brought us the growth of inflation caused by an additional drastic increase in energy and food. One of the conditions of entry into the euro zone is an inflation rate that must not exceed 1.5% of the average inflation rate in three EU countries with the lowest price growth. In order for Croatia to enter the euro zone 1.1.2023, inflation should be no higher than 5.76% and inflation was 6.3% in February. In considering the inflation criteria as a reference period, it will be taken from 31.5.2021 to 30 April 2022 and we know, unfortunately, that March and April have brought a significant increase in prices. It is therefore very likely that, with the discretion of the European Commission on exclusion from the calculation of members with too low inflation, Croatia will meet the criteria to adopt the euro at the beginning of 2023. Whether the European Commission will indeed do so remains to be seen. Furthermore, our general debt of the state is certainly not below 60% as a condition. However, the share of public debt in GDP is 88.8%. Why and how the European Commission looks through our fingers, if it will look through our fingers. Probably the answer lies in a war crisis and a covid crisis. But it is not clear how risky it is and how all the consequences of introducing the euro with such unfavourable indicators and at such a sensitive moment when both the EU's energy and financial stability are seriously rocking. It is regrettable again to conclude that no quality public debate has been conducted on the introduction of the euro, nor is the public sufficiently familiar with potential benefits and potential minuses and risks. So far, no EU member has entered the euro area under such uncertain conditions. On that side, we're really kind of an experiment. And that is why on several occasions we have talked about the need to enter the Eurozone with these unfavourable inflation indicators and the general debt of the state requires stronger preparation of our country in terms of creating additional financial fuses that would repair possible unexpected and expected negative financial effects. In this regard, we have already proposed that the Fund be designed to mitigate possible negative effects of entry into the Eurozone and we regret that the proposal is constantly ignored. Article 8 prohibits the introduction of the euro from increasing the price of goods or services to consumers for no good reason. However, as we have spoken many times today, no other mechanisms have been mentioned except for the dual display of prices only three months before the introduction itself. This is in Article 44. Therefore, in this whole legislative proposal, regardless of what was repeatedly warned in the first reading and asked for additional protection mechanisms to be introduced, there is nothing but a double display of prices. The interpretation of Article 8 refers to the Ethics Code, but it is not available in the legal text and access to the Ethics Code is voluntary. So it's not binding, and, of course, it's not a strong enough mechanism to protect consumers. We were looking for and expecting a concrete price control action plan because it is the most important thing for citizens, but we did not welcome it either. Entrepreneurs may, in order to justify an increase in the retail price, indicate a growth in the consumption of production, sales costs, distribution, an increase in electricity prices, gas, oil, raw materials, salary increases, other levies, etc. etc. In the entire Western hemisphere, of course, we also have every entrepreneur in accordance with market conditions, i.e. business and business policy costs freely forming the prices of their products and services. And who will do a detailed check, an analysis of the economic necessity of increasing prices. Are we going to have different criteria again and again for insubordinate entrepreneurs? For example, the euro is listed in the National Kuna Replacement Plan as a blacklist. That's what I was talking about in the replica, my colleague was talking about. Thus, on page 36, the National Plan says: “The existence of such lists will further stimulate entrepreneurs to ethical behaviour in the conversion process.” We looked for them in the first reading, explained. We have an example of Slovenia. The minister was talking about the white lists. Let them be black and white, let them be gray and pink, but they are necessary. The minister's answer to me is that he won't force it and he won't guarantee it's not true. It is psychological pressure on everyone to keep order in introducing the euro and not to raise prices unjustly and that is a good fuse that has shown its results in Slovenia. We can only regret to conclude that this is lost from the '20s National Plan for the Introduction of the euro. Where is this foreseen, where was the introduction given by the Prime Minister himself, therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia? For what? We'll try to get it back with the amendment. Here we ask the ruling majority to think a little bit about our citizens here. So, in art. 25, no, I would like to further quote the prime minister from the national plan, he says "in all the upcoming activities related to the introduction of the euro we will pay particular attention to informing citizens and pay full attention to consumer protection. To this end, we will follow the good practices of countries which have already introduced the euro through the establishment of different mechanisms that have successfully protected their citizens from unwarranted price hikes." It is written in the national plan, signed by Andrej Plenkovic. And then why didn't we follow good practices? Why did we not follow the good practice of Slovenia? And why did we leave the citizens on a single protection mechanism? There's no answer. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25. it is determined that the bank replaces not more than 100 kuna banknotes and no more than 100 kuna coins per transaction, and can charge a fee above that figure. Why? We believe that a provision is sufficient that the bank should determine the amount above which an announcement is required to replace it. We believe that banks in this entire process must do the whole technical part of the job without profit and without profit. Well, they've had enough money in this Croatia, and they'll have it. I really don't think we have to worry so much about the financial fates of our dear banks. They're not ours either, unfortunately. In the case of a Member HNB, if they weren't here, they've already spoken enough of their colleagues and I can only confirm that, terrifyingly. Thus, it ensures temporary care of the money of the kuna withdrawn from the optics, but nowhere is it specified, which is precisely what it means appropriate. We all remember well, for example. Luke Raic, who conveniently took care of Croatian dinars in BiH, earned his first few million. Well, it would be good if this time it wasn't only appropriate, but also specifically indicated and determined how and where. It is said that the CNB will sublegally regulate this, and we hope that this sublegal regulation will be made public and made available to all citizens for insight, in order to reduce that relevance. And ultimately the penalties provided for those who will abuse the processes amount to up to 100,000 kuna, which de facto means that, for example, some chain of commerce can apply a slightly more expensive course of conversion, pay a cut-off sentence and still double its profits. So it is quite unclear why penalties do not bind to the percentage of traffic since last year to really demote traders to abuse the process. In these topics, we will make amendments to this proposal. And because of the citizens of this country, we hope that the ruling majority will have little hearing this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107092	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, the distinguished representative Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107093	Thank you. Today was a very good debate, and I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised with quite high quality replicas, actually from all sides, but perhaps there should be something that is most important in this whole story. There is no currency to save the Croatian economy. The primary Croatian economy and Croatian citizens can be saved with one responsible behaviour, no matter what currency. You have countries with weak currencies that are economically strong, you have those with relatively strong currencies, economics are nowhere, other words we need to take care of some things that are in our own backyard first. In fact, probably a good part of the people doesn't even know that our administration numbers almost a million people, and in the private sector that feeds that administration and primarily feeds us in politics, you have about 800,000 people. Now for the next tourist season, imports are forecasted to be around 120,000 workers because they are unfortunately missing. We haven't made any desirable conditions for people to be able to make money with us. If we have a huge, steep and expensive administration, our tax presses will automatically be bigger, and the VAT will automatically increase and all other parafiscal burdens which unfortunately cannot be counted mostly. Generally looking at Croatia is a very fiscally unstable country, one Germany given its size and given the quantity of production and the strong economy that has lasted for years they are very strong. In other words, today in just one line to our minister, I have made it clear that it will be safe, but there will certainly be a situation where we will be in charge of power by so-called. More favourable interest, and who's gonna pay back those huge debts and we're in a lot of debt like this. We may reduce it sometimes, but that debt should eventually be paid back. Also in an economy like Croatia's imports and exports are in some correlation. One Slovenia has problems that depend too much on performance, and we depend on imports, sometimes more sometimes less. And you know where we get the most? From EU countries. Also, if we introduce the euro I definitely welcome, it should be subject to very strict and normal rules within Croatia. We don't have a problem with the euro, the euro is our rent problem, we have a problem with the implementation itself. We have a CNB that doesn't do anything. Today, the governor of the CNB here was supposed to stand next to the minister and say that he would abide by the CNB Act, that he would abide by everything that was left in his contract and answer to those who were here in the Parliament. We see in recent months, not that there will be an increase in prices, prices have already increased, prices have already jumped so much that you can no longer control it, and what is not mentioned in public that already some trade chains, almost everyone, have sat among themselves and as we sit here in the Parliament, people have agreed between themselves and will now raise those prices to a certain limit. Our Croatia needs to cultivate a market economy, but this market economy should also respect the laws, should be respected, of course, by the institutions. If institutions in some European countries were able to illustrate and could predict this particular price rise, to be within 0.2 to 0.3%, as we can see through the Eurozone, we could also ensure. And we're the only ones responsible for this price hike. Yes, the war is in Ukraine, the price of steel is rising. We see on... The stock market, we see on the exchange in Turkey that the price of steel and price of iron practically rises from hour to hour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, just the day before yesterday, we were looking for an offer to see how this one, as they move along with the iron now, writes, the validity of the offer, for an hour. So I haven't honestly seen it in these four years of office, as much as I'm mayor, really like never. So no one can, of course, predict such things, but on the other hand, call for world instability and do nothing in their own backyard, it's an example of irresponsibility. Let's move on. There's been talk about taking loans in kunas. Of course, loans are taken in kunas because we previously had a situation with Swiss, so people, of course, became cautious and then after one side of the currency that they of course talked you into being stable, that it was good, people would eventually believe domestic currency. If the domestic currency fails you, as it happened by ending Yugoslavia when people simply lost their trust, then of course they'll take foreign currency. At the time, stamps were taken, and today, of course, euros will be taken. Savings are in euro, car prices are in euro, real estate prices are also in euro, you talk about a European country how much money it has, it's back in euro. Diaspora money comes back in euro, about 2 billion kuna. The money in tourism comes again in euro. In other words, we as one small economy, as a small country, have only such a single choice, but that choice must be under quotes, controlled in one smart way. We can't afford to be some economically developed country-specific choice, but we need to be smart about how to implement it. So the implementation and implementation is the most important item. It should also be pointed out that Europe is returning to its production taught by this example, especially now during these powerful lockdowns, and unfortunately it has reflected negatively on us even as a small tourist country, so that the introduction of the euro should definitely be supported, it is a logical sequence, but also, what follows us after that, if we do not use the tools that we have, through one irresponsible CNB that needs to bring order and bring order, if we do not watch what we do within our own yard, if the wildling of the European Central Bank takes place, then we will unfortunately be in trouble. We should primarily reduce that one administration, which, of course, will lead to a reduction in parafiscal imposition, when we have fewer taxes, when we have fewer taxes to the state, then at the end and incomes, there will be incomes, there will be wages, everything will eventually rise. After all, this is a beautiful country. I think whoever came to our coast, whoever saw our islands, our sea, and even our Slavonia, has really got something to see. With this irresponsible behaviour and with this weak implementation of certain laws, especially as regards the CNB, these parts of Croatia will be increasingly weak and less populated. We've gone one smaller town over the past 10 years, and if we keep this up, more and more will go away, so that, after all, the euro won't solve our problems, it won't solve our accumulated problems, but, if nothing else, it can serve us as a good instrument to lose less money and less people than we have so far. In the end, our fate won't depend on a piece of paper, but definitely, if we can keep some people and run finally this economy and our economy, it definitely needs to be welcomed and well controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107094	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107095	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So there is a second reading of the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. The law itself has not seen any major changes in the second reading and what is important to say is that entering the euro area and introducing the euro as an official currency is one of the strategic objectives that the government has introduced in its programme. For the implementation of this Act in the state budget, it is secured for 2022. 32.8 million kuna, where it's for 2023. 3.6 and 0.9 respectively in 2024. It is important to say that there is also a follow-up to the provision of funds in extra-financial users, as well as in the budgets of the county where it is also listed in the programme itself. The decision to enter the Eurozone will be made in early July of this year, and in order to enter the Eurozone, we need to meet four criteria clearly set out in the '92 Maastricht Treaty, which is price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, exchange rate stability and convergence of long-term interest rates. The criteria are set to encourage Member States to behave responsibly and prepare them for membership in the monetary union, as the last financial crisis has shown, therefore, a stable and resilient state that will function much more successfully in the terms of the common currency than the countries that are burdened by their own economic problems. Yes, several times this morning have been talked about why right now and whether we can change it, whether it is a good time to enter, etc., but it would point out that Croatia entered the European Course Mechanism on July 2, 2020. For two and a half years it has been working on an action plan and it is very important that these criteria of the action plan are met and they have indeed met. At its meeting on 31 March this year, the government gave a full report filled with an action plan, and that is exactly what is most important that there really are all preconditions of quality for what we can expect in July this year. So, the introduction of the euro and the procedure is not what you know this morning I woke up just to get into the euro area, but it's a process that requires both knowledge and energy, and at the end of the time, because we know how long it took us to overcome all the negative effects that had been the previous crisis since 2008, so we haven't recovered for over six years, so that now that we look at the effects and results precisely in these last three years and in the sixth term of these governments, they've really done everything to keep public finances stable as the first one, in order to give exactly those results positive results to all other effects. So, it's not easy in these conditions when there has been a pandemic in the past two years, when it's brought new costs to the budget for helping the economy, it's also led as we know to increase public debt even though it has been constantly reduced in previous periods, and so has all this that's happened with the earthquake, but also the current war really makes a very complex environment where it really has to be well thought out how and in what way it happens. The proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency regulates general provisions for the introduction of the euro, rules for the recalculation of monetary statements of values, the supply and replacement of money for the euro's cash, double circulation, double statement, application of the principle of continuity of legal instruments, rules relating to the preparation of budgets and financial plans in the year preceding the year of introduction of the euro and the rules for recording in the accounts, reporting rules, supervision of the application of the bill, infringements, etc. Therefore, it is very important to prepare the whole system in both public and private and entrepreneurial terms, as well as financially. What is important is also to point out that, during this period, many or all of the criteria have been met and would mention the latest report given by the State Statistics Institute, which is the report on the excessive budget deficit procedure and the level of debt of the general state, that is, from April 2022, which is based on the ESA 2010 methodology, so the deficit of the consolidated state, in 2021, was 12.4 billion kuna and 2.9% of GDP, respectively, so this is one of the criteria that is very important that it is below 3%. In 2020 it was 27.7 or 7.3 GDP, and in 2019 we had a surplus as you know and it was 0.2 GDP. So all of this that I've been counting all the effects that we've had and all the other countries that have affected the increase in costs and the increase in public debt, we've still held back in 2021, in fact, within those parameters that are foreseen by the criteria themselves. The consolidated debt, therefore, at the end of 2021 was 343 billion kuna or 79.8% while in 2020 it was 87.3% or 330 billion kuna, so it is also evident that additional criteria are being met where the rate of reduction, reduction of public debt has been significantly increased and significant compared to the previous period. What I should like to point out is that according to this convergence programme that the government gave for the 2023-2025 period, the GDP growth projection has changed, although we recall that in the previous period the growth was over 10.2% and now the revised growth projection is expected in 2022 of 3%, and in 2023. 4.4 and 2.7 respectively in 2024, all of this is a logical sequence given all that is happening. Yet, in 2023, something more optimistic is predicted than what some other analysts do. I would like to point out that when we think about exactly the reasons, then the advantages of introducing the euro are far greater than the negative ones we must never close our eyes to, among other things, I was just saying this in the replica about the currency risk, about what exporters who are here in 2021 and in 2022 continue to have a very positive effect and, therefore, the HDZ Club will support such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107096	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Fair Croatian Honored Representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107097	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Thus, by signing the Treaty of Accession of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has become a party to the EU Treaty as well as to the EU's functioning contracts and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, making the provisions of the EU's basic Treaties mandatory for the Republic of Croatia. Since the establishment of an economic and monetary union whose currency is the euro is defined by the 1992 EU Treaty. By means of the accession treaty, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to introduce the euro as official currencies in the Republic of Croatia after the prescribed conditions have been met, as well as the provisions of the rules relating to EU Member States in which the euro is the official currency. The same provisions are binding on all Member States which have joined the EU after the signing of the EU Treaty. As the last financial crisis has shown stable and resilient countries will function much more successfully in the terms of the common currency than countries that are burdened by their own economic problems. But is Croatia a stable and resilient state? I will start with a relatively new forecast for the IMF for Croatia that can come down to two claims, we are halved by growth in the economy, and inflation doubles. According to recent announcements, the Croatian economy will grow only 2.7% this year of the IMF's forecast. In the regular spring forecasts, the IMF has more than halved the forecast of Croatian economy growth in this year, as in the regular autumn forecasts in October there is growth in 2022. Estimated to 5.8%. At the same time, the IMF has doubled the forecast of this year's inflation in Croatia from 2.0 to 5.9%. A group of European emerging economies and developmental economies that are classified and Croatia's IMF forecasts a decline in activity in this year by 2.9%. The IMF expects the serious consequences of the war in the eurozone as sanctions imposed on Russia hit Europe hard, especially Germany. The euro area economy should thus increase 2.8% this year by 1.1 percentage points lower than were forecasted in the preliminary winter forecasts in January. In 2023, growth of activities in the area of common currency use should slow to 2.3%. The IMF forecasts that inflation in the euro area this year under the influence of the war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia affecting food and energy prices should jump to 5.3% and weaken to 2.3% in 2023. Croatia is in 2021. in a group of EU countries with the lowest levels of employment below the European average, the European Statistical Office showed us this. The lowest employment was recorded by Croatia, Spain, Romania, Italy and Greece, where less than 70% of citizens aged 25-64 were employed. In Croatia, the employment rate was 68.2% last year, at 66.9% in 2020 and in pre-pandemic 2019. 66.7%, and due to the collection of energy and food, the standard of Croats could literally be halved. With the introduction of the euro, we are inevitably coming together even though 240 thousand citizens' accounts have already been blocked. The population standard will fall for the next few years under the influence of energy prices, supply chains shocks, as well as increased private borrowing, lending and uncontrollable printing of money. The Croatian population was affected by the rise in gas prices, fuel and electricity prices and prior to the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, and a significant increase in food has begun last year due to shortages in the world market. The government tried to mitigate the price shock with a package of measures to lower VAT on energy and certain foods. But the truth is that the effect of these measures is quite negligible, the prices of completely irrelevant products such as toothpicks, napkins, and the like continue to rise, while the prices of all the necessary goods of broad consumption bought by citizens continue to rise. Food and energy prices are rising regardless of the government's package, and this price hike has already been calculated into inflation and prices. We all know that food and energy will still accumulate. I'm afraid we currently have a scenario in which a ship called Croatia is sinking, and we are introducing the euro. Croatia is almost entirely dependent on the tourist season and on nothing else. Once a respectable industry-based economy turned into a tourist destination. The measures Croatia currently needs to go towards primary energy and food self-sufficiency, with the prolonging of the introduction of the euro. The introduction of the European currency from the beginning of 2023 will bring a further wave of inflation to Croatia. Experience from other countries shows that the rise in prices at year-on-year following the introduction of the euro was on average 2 to 2.5 percentage units. Of course, now is not a good time to introduce a European currency because the only instrument Croatia has in the fight against inflation is monetary policy, and without kuna, monetary policy will be implemented in the European Central Bank, not in Croatia's central bank. Although many of us want it, but let's face it, the Italian economies, Germany, Ireland, France have almost no similarities with ours. How, then, will we address the problem of inflation in Croatia through the ECB? In addition, he fears that if the war in Ukraine escalates and energy and trade conflicts, there is certainly no limit to price growth in the coming years, all pointing to a potential deep crisis, especially for countries of vulnerable economy without their own food production, such as Croatia. The world is at the door of a new crisis. Let's remember the brief cause of the 1929 crisis. It started out as a collapse of stock exchanges, therefore uncontrollable printing of money and the collapse of world trade, and today we have a pandemic and a war in Ukraine, then an unadjusted policy government around the world and a potential drop in international lending and borrowing, future monetary contraction, bank panic, bankruptcy, all of these are scenarios that we are witnessing today. Experts predict that the real standard of Croatian citizens could fall to 30%, and if the Ukrainian war persists and there is no change in the ECB's policy, they believe a fall of up to 50% is possible. On the other hand, Croatia has no room for wage growth and pensions to mitigate the decline of the real standard due to price increases because this would lead to hyperinflation in unprecedented proportions. Along with inflation, the number of citizens living on the edge of poverty, as well as those who have come into a blockade due to debts. According to FINA's latest data, more than 240,000 citizens have been blocked due to a maturity of as much as 24.8 billion kuna with interest. The standard of Croatian citizens was greatly compromised even before last year's launch of the wave of gatherings. According to the State Statistics Institute, about 27.2% of the monthly cost of the average Croatian household wastes on food and non-alcoholic beverages, and 17.7% of the cost of housing that includes energy. Since these were areas in which the gatherings were pronounced, it is clear that this is causing an extremely strong blow to the increasingly wider circle of citizens. As we descend with incomes lower, so the share of food and non-alcoholic beverages rises to more than 40 or even 50%, and the cost of housing to more than 30%. Specially endangered are households in rural areas, in the countryside, single households, retirement households, and those with more children, unemployed, sick, elderly. The risk of poverty for 2020 is 18.3%, and since these official data are firmly delayed, the real situation is much worse. With measures taken by the government, there are not many mechanisms available. There can be another small thing done in the area of fuel excise duties, VAT on electricity from the current 13, down to 5%, however, when it comes to lowering VAT, for example, to oil processing, there is no guarantee that precisely because of the freedom of price formation, their reduction will occur at all or at least in the part of the volume that has been opened, under quotes, through the relief of this tax burden. When it comes to public debt, let's mention that in the first year of the pandemic, there was a one-time jump for as many as 17 percentage points of GDP to 87.3%. I believe that the vast majority of Croatian citizens rightly wonder whether Croatia is nevertheless a country that is heavily burdened by its own economic problems and whether the time has come for the introduction of the euro. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107098	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107099	I thank the chairman. Here, as I said in the replica, on behalf of the Club and on behalf of the Center Party, we support therefore the European orientation of Croatia and membership in these European, Euro-Atlantic alliances and thus the entry into the Eurozone. And what I do, here, join all those who are here today from a pay phone and from a place where we really are here, along with the Minister we expected the CNB governor here, not because the legislator is more because, therefore, the Government is the promoter, but as well as the support, and to answer a number of questions about this whole process that the MPs have been asking here because one of the important steps in the process of introducing the euro is communication to the citizens. The fact is, therefore, that every change is always difficult and therefore needs to be carefully planned, to get support from all involved, and citizens in particular. So citizens have to be sure that this change will not affect the quality of their lives, that some drastic price hikes will not take place because of the change, that there will be no increase in interest and so on, on their loans, and entrepreneurs must also be sure that there will be no unnecessary costs in that replacement, so here it was important that there be a governor here. The questions are not only technical about this Law, but here's the whole process and the very conditions that we need to meet. Here, as we have already heard, once again, the final decision on the introduction of the euro will be known in June when the EU Commission and the Central Bank announces, so the assessment report whether members who have not yet introduced the euro and Croatia meet the convergence criteria. The most problematic criterion that we have, here, most said here is inflation, which will therefore measure from April last year to April this year and should not exceed the average in 3 countries with the lowest inflation rate over 12 months increased by 1.5 percentage points. This practically means that if we look at the situation today, so that next year Croatia could enter the euro zone inflation should not be greater than 5.76% because France, Malta and Portugal currently had the lowest inflation rate according to Eurostat, their overall average was 4.26. However, here in Croatia in February inflation was 6.3 and the government was here at the last session significantly raised that growth assessment to 7.8%. So there have been legitimate questions as to what will be with this criterion, but here we expect that the minister said that in some ways Croatia will still see through the fingers or that the EU can little and avoid these rules, or as the CNB says in its public statements, there is a certain degree of flexibility in determining the level of the reference value of inflation because it can be excluded from the EU Member State or more of which it is estimated to be too low in inflation and that it is significantly deviating from other Member States. As inflation movements in Croatia are well in line with developments in the euro area and the EU, Croatia is likely to meet the criteria of price stability. So here's what I'm reading from, instead of the governor, what he might have said here from the assembly. So here we are living in a really difficult time today, Europe is on the verge, and if not already in recession, the impact of war and sanctions on our economy seems to be harder than previous assessments showed. The government itself is in the middle of a crisis, and here we've seen ministers change if it's like on tape. It wouldn't be a problem that they change if they didn't change for the sake of the affairs they're involved in. So we have a government where people actually don't trust each other, they suspect that it's hard to run anything, let alone one of these complex processes. We saw how that simple job of picking out one euro design, the images on that one euro, had to be done in two steps is whether if we fell for it, on this one simple step how we're going to do this rest of the work. So we also have a country that is the second poorest in the EU. A country that since it was created, therefore, has not all governments so far reduced state spending. We have a level of public debt that is an inappropriate rate of development of the country, economy and economy that is not robust to any, let alone the shocks that are happening today. Here we are reminded by our colleagues of the government's commitments in the letter of intent since July 2019, which is that it was an obligation to improve state property management, reduce parafiscal burdens. We haven't seen any of that before today. However, here we find this crisis conveniently in the world, and we too are getting away with the crisis. It would be said that the crisis here has saved us even as we enter the European, euro zone. In here we heard the saying and in discussions in Europe is also a problem, we have a problem with different levels of inflation and a large range and differences in that level of inflation so here are among the members of France who have 4% to Lithuania with 16% and it is a very big question how will the European Bank with its tools be put in such a situation. What tools will be used, which, some will affect one country in a way that threatens economic growth and development while it may be effective for these countries with a high inflation rate. So that's all we expect, we wait for the European Bank to be set up. As I asked, this is also a huge operational technical procedure, not only for employers entrepreneurs but also for the state, state-owned companies and public administration. So, you need to replace or update all information systems of IT applications, new versions, test, perform stress tests before that day D. So, I wrote in, ask at what stage these projects for public administration, have already been carried out and how expensive it will cost taxpayers. According to the minister here, this amount goes up to about 2.5 billion kuna if I have managed to sum up everything that's been listed so far. So, that all institutions, institutions and technical ones are actually transferred to the euro. One thing is whether we will technically be ready to enter the euro area, the other is citizens' confidence in the whole process and fear of introducing a new currency. Often that fear is unwarranted. As we have already heard, Croatia is a highly eurorestricted country, which means whether the Croats are most of the damage in the euro. Prices of more valuable things like real estate, cars are shown spontaneously in euro. Every summer millions of tourists come to us, pour in, and there is really not much reason for Croats to experience much more trauma than for example. The Finnishs, the Estonians, the Latvians, the Lithuanians, the Austrians, the Slovaks, the Slovenians, the Cypriots, the Malteses, the Greeks, the Italians, the Spanishs, the Portugueses, the French, the Irish, the Belgians, the Luxembourgians and the Dutch, and finally the Germans who have been using the euro for years, they have nothing wrong. There are also Danes and Bulgarians who are in the European exchange rate mechanism with practically fixed national currency rates next to the euro, so it's de facto as if they have the euro, only they haven't actually brought it to an end. It is also important to know that citizens of Member States using the euro strongly support the common currency. So citizens who already have the euro think it's not bad at all. So, is the euro a good thing or a bad thing for your country responding to it? The minimum percentage of the answer is good in Italy, but that percentage is also above 60%. And it is generally the largest support in smaller countries in Ireland, Finland, Malta, Slovenia and Estonia. And support is particularly strong in both Germany and Greece, so 3/4 respondents believe the euro is a good thing. 82% of respondents believe that the euro facilitates comparisons of prices and purchases in a number of Member States, while 79% consider this to be good for business in a larger number of countries. So this support of the euro is constantly growing even here in times of crisis some of the countries are saying is actually what would be if we weren't in the euro, so some see the euro as a source of stability when times are burning, and these are these times right now. I have asked on the board a few things here are concrete from the laws that we have made as observations in the first reading, one of them has not been accepted, here I am still not really clear, and that is that society will have to apply for changes in the value of capital to commercial courts, the courts are expected to be covered by these requirements is whether it could not be introduced that this change is carried out in the competent commercial court automatically. And the second question that we have here is that it's about the bills that come out in January 2023 for services from the period until 31.12.In '22, so here's when you're only able to explain a little bit more because entrepreneurs don't really understand the whole process, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107100	Next is the debate on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representative Ivan Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107101	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. The position of the National Movement Club on the issue of the introduction of the euro is also very clear on the trail of our policy, which we present before and before the HS, but also in front of all citizens it is very clear that we are against the introduction of the euro. Why is that? Because behind this syntagmic against the introduction of the euro and through the media, of course, it's always trying to tell a foreign story that fits, which is that you're against something. It is very clear and open that what really bothers us is that if you introduce the euro means that you are shutting down, ending the life of the Croatian Kuna and it is for us a deeply emotional topic, a topic which is in the very essence of Croatian statehood and for this step we are not ready and we think that Croatia is not ready, nor should it ever be ready in my opinion, so I will elaborate our position very prosalytically, little recall our history, in fact these last 30 years. which for the Republic of Croatia are the most important. We marked on May 1st the action Flash, May 2nd the massacre of 12 directors in the village of Borov, but we forgot the emotions carried by the defenders of the Republic, which are, in fact, the emotions in which the Republic of Croatia was created and in which it was created. I remember a syntagma, a parallel of that time "Croatian fox in Croatian pocket, Croatian rifle on Croatian shoulder" as the achievement of the centuries-old Croatian dream, a dream that is at a great price, with a lot of prudence and wisdom of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franje Tudjman and Croatian defenders and the entire Croatian people and all Croatian citizens who dreamed and wanted Croatia the dream was experienced, we live it today, we also achieved the goals that we cared about, the entry into the EU and North Atlantic integration, so NATO and that was something that were our strategic goals. Entering the Schengen area is certainly one of them, but the euro, I would not agree that it is the strategic interest of the Croatian state and of the Croatian people. Finally, and ultimately, I would love and wish that we had had an equal exchange of arguments and opinions, respecting the full and opposite views I see and how I feel probably as most citizens do see it going towards the introduction of the euro, but an open debate, an equal, one referendum on the subject after that debate that citizens finally and finally make their own court is something that simply is the standard of every modern democratic state, and Croatia should be, this topic should be on the agenda on the table and they should ultimately judge and make a decision on the Croatian citizens. We've heard all sorts of arguments, but of course about emotions, symbolism is hard to talk about. We are all inclined to sing Croatian songs, folk songs, patriots, some a little less, some a little more, but I remember a single verse of a Croatian song that says "what defends itself is not easy to let go of in blood". We gave up Croatian Kuna too easily, only 31. We should have succumbed to the influence of the globalist policies, to forget the victim, to forget the centuries and the lives of the people who died because of the Croatian song, because of the Croatian word, but also because of Croatia as a state and its national currency. The arguments are, of course, present on one side and on the other, and everyone has a right. We've been listening, and here's a colleague who just spoke and listed the countries she's going to, going well, which have introduced the euro, and I'm going to list the others. I will say that the UK and Denmark have put a clause in the EU's very accession that they will not accept the common currency. What's wrong with Sweden, which is bad in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, so they have their national currencies, Denmark? We always have arguments for both sides. What really bothers me the most, and that is one syntagma you will not hear “euro is the currency behind which the state does not stand” means behind the euro as a currency there is no sovereign state, so I will ask myself on the trail of the policy of Dr. Francis Tudjman, is this the way to some new associations and the abolition of sovereign states? I'll remind you of the policy of Dr. Franjo Tudjman was the EU as a community of sovereign states, but not in any segmental or millimeter of entering new, new state communities because we know what history has brought us from the aspect of the state communities that were in these areas. And with a hard time after a century, we've grown fat out of state communities and now we're falling where? Whether through a new state community where the Croatian state and the Croatian people, and we see already the example of Croatian currency, will be re-emerged. It is clear as a day, always for alliances, friendships only, we need to develop them, no one is against it, but the hand to the heart to give up monetary sovereignty, so yet sovereignty clearly clear who at EU level is governmental, it is clear that monetary policy will always lead to the ideas and needs of the largest, so Germany, France, the Netherlands, their economies. Taking care of Croatian businessmen and Croatian interests in this regard will have no one to lead because our vote will be too small, and with this signature and entry we will hand over the information to someone else. For me personally, it is a sad moment, I oppose it, but also the Homeland Movement, but as legalists I will repeat that despite all this weight of the problem we are discussing, we would always respect democratic standards and the will of the majority, so the precondition was an open debate, exchange of arguments and ultimately a referendum. Why do we always drag these topics past the will of the people? Why do foreign power centres manage processes across different channels in this country? I don't know, but whoever's trying to convince me otherwise I'm just going to set an example and I'm going to end it. Tens of millions of kunas will come to the service of euro promotion in this country. Isn't that enough to ask ourselves, and where are the tens of millions on the other side so we can make a decision that is of this people's interest? Who's afraid of legitimate and legal debates? Is it possible for a conscience that is clean and which in mind is exclusively the well-being of the Croatian people and Croatian state, of course all Croatian citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107102	Following individual debates, the first registered respected representative, Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107103	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, associates, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, we have all had the opportunity to hear in this debate that we sublime a large number of Croatian sovereigns, patriots and those who have fought for independence, sovereignty, independence of our country's country of origin, absolutely opposes the professional arguments of the professional public, European experts, Croatian experts who have argued that it is not the time for Croatia to enter the euro zone to abolish the kuna, because this is a safe path, a safe path to poor Croatia. The impoverishment of a hard and very painful life in Croatia in the last 2-3 years that has disrupted the earthquake, the crown, the crisis, especially lately the war in Ukraine and certainly inflation, and all of this is already affected, the energy impact has been so strong that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in particular are simply freaked out, they do not know how to survive, how to return. The government has given once-determined assistance, but all this together is not enough because food, basic living conditions are too expensive, and children are not home, children cannot be educated, children do not have a job, all of this is a vicious circle in which they come, a circle of one despair, in which the euro is coming to completely opuperate us, completely colonises us from the sides, to the outside centers of power, to fully bind us to the Brussels policies that are simultaneously anti-Croatian, anti-national, non-supervismic, we have had the opportunity to feel it, seen, several times. And with today, we have nothing more to say than no matter what we are in the minority to remain for history, our vote to strongly oppose the introduction of the euro, to strongly oppose the abolition of the kuna because there is no condition. There are not even the conditions that the European Commission has prescribed, but rather the fact that this European Commission which otherwise conditions us all, prevents everything from entering the Schengen area, from entering a variety of integrations, just remember how many chapters we have opened, how much trouble and problems, how difficult this Croatian freedom was born, and even more conditional it was with Euroburocrats, but today they are wide open doors. It is already a sign to every man, every honest, honest Croat, patriot that something is wrong, that it is a trap and a trap, one noose around the neck that every reasonable man must resist. Me and I are resisting it. You'll see it won't be long before you say you were right as many Americans today say we were wrong. We made a terrible mistake not letting General Gotovina enter Banja Luka, today the problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have. Now they say that, but for nothing, it's been 15, 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107104	We have two replicas. Please wait. The first is a respected representative of the Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107105	I thank the chairman. So, your colleague Sačić belongs to the club of Croatian sovereigns and for a reason you have defended perhaps the last bed of Croatian currency, which is our kuna. But do you believe that the sovereignty of one country, one country, is also defended by sufficient food production for its own population through the preservation of rural space, through the preservation of life in the country. All of these are categories that are in Croatia, unfortunately, on the extremity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107106	Well, sure. Thank you. I must admit that you have taught me that, too, I have listened closely to you during this year in the Parliament, and before as a minister. Of course you have something to say that you know that, and it's certainly one of the main arguments of one state's sovereignty. It's not just the release of passwords and the speech "lived Croatia!" and everything else. These are concrete effects that the Croatian people, the Croatian man, must show to actually defend his family, his country, his country and the perspectives which today especially with the introduction of the euro we Croats especially those below the level of acceptable, and such are the most well-beings that do not live in prosperity and they will be in great trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107107	Next replica, the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107108	Dear colleague, do you think that after entering the euro zone, Croatian citizens will live better or worse? How to explain to a grandmother who has a 300-euro pension, that she will pay 2 euros for a loaf of bread, or 10% of pensions will go on bread alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107109	Well, you've all talked about it, especially in the last memory, and what's actually said by our colleague Vesna Vucilović and Mr Penava and you. Of course they're enigma. I believe that once again the minister will finally try to answer the question of how an average pensioner or a minimal worker will actually manage to convert all those costs, all the receipts he receives in euro and pay all those monthly directories. So I find it very difficult or not. He'll either go into new responsibilities or he'll send the kids again. Someone will have to do something like in Yugoslavia outside so that we in Croatia, in this country, can live the hardest affected layers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107110	Thank you. We're gonna hang up now. Let's take a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107111	We will now return to our point and in an individual debate will now speak the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the subject is the euro and today there are a number of legitimate issues here that are open whether we need the euro at all and when and in what dynamics. And then you always ask the question is today a good time, is a good time in a year, in two, in five. Here I might come back if it was a good time if we didn't know in 2013 and what it might have been like if we had been realistic then we should have been accepted, and we weren't due to the political decision then, we weren't admitted in 2007, right, when Slovenia came in and when those other countries came in. I think that if Croatia had entered in 2007 never in its history would have fought so long with its recession since 2008 when it was the global financial crisis until the year 2015. We lost thousands of jobs, there were about 400,000 unemployed, I was at that point in the Ministry of Finance, and I know how hard it was to even raise any funding. The minister here said we had interest and the fact was 12 billion kuna. So we paid rudely expensive interest rates, but simply, that's what we used to be when we were little. When we were nothing, we weren't part of any integration. And so now this question, is now a good time to join the euro, no matter what the euro is at its same turning point, I think it's good. It's been discussed here today, whether today, whether tomorrow. How.../incomprehensible/... no, I can't even figure out what we might be in a year or what we're gonna be in three years, are we gonna be in a better situation to get in? We see that overnight there's an increase in energy prices by 200%, 300%, 500%, something that was unimaginable. I don't know what would happen to us, here's what happened to us in Croatia, if our course were to slip away, now it's 7.55, to go to 8 is there enough instruments to defend the course of swearing, do we have enough exchanges to defend it and to feel the economy then? For this reason, my opinion is, regardless of what are.../incomprehensible/... I say, legitimate questions that are being asked here whether or not it is, but to actually answer why, why, why do I think it is in the national interest of Croatia to integrate? I can ask if course 7.5 is okay. Which one of you here will tell me he's okay course, 7.5? Most economists calling today, you know what they'll tell you about course 7.5? To suit the import lobby. Let's see if it suits the import lobby, 7.5. If they said it was the importers who were destroying jobs, that we didn't have, why can't we talk about it, right? How can we, who will tell me if it's 7.5, is that 7.7 or 7.8? And we keep hearing that the course of these 20 years, not from me, but from me, but from those who export, those who produce, those who create values from the Croatian Association of Exporters, they said, not me, that the course pleases the importers. That the course, that exchange rate policy for the last 30 years has choked jobs, that it has closed production in Croatia. Who's going to tell me today that what is that course supposed to be? Who's going to tell me, when we get what I said, and we have to get oil eus, we have to get for the raw materials, we have to get to buy, to produce, is, and then just to turn it into our kuna, someone's making money on us, someone's making money on us. He takes 5 to 10%. Takes 5 to 10% and Croatian companies are less competitive, less competitive precisely because someone takes so-called. This fee. My personal opinion, regardless of what this story looks like, wouldn't have worked out so quickly in 2020 if we weren't part of an EU member, people wouldn't have, if I said, I know how to joke sometimes, but for the buns we wouldn't have had the support of the European and Central Bank of Bonds in 2020, the minister knows what it was like to do with that SWAP, what was the pressure on Croatian bonds. That's why, from an economic point of view, we think it's good for Croatia, it won't be easy, it won't be easy, it won't be standard. But I think it'll be fine in the long run. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107113	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107114	Thank you. Comrade Lalovac, you were also Minister of Finance at one point in your life, so Croatia will now remain a place for active management of the surplus reserve, so we will be left with almost 9.10 billion euros. So let's have our golden coffin. How would you manage that money? So after we pay 710m euros to the European Central Bank,... What would you do with that money? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107115	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107116	Thank you. I think you asked a similar question to a minister, I think, last time... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean, then the question is why we don't have a governor here today, right? Why don't we have it to say with that money, whether that money is being collected, but let's, let's not forget. Where did the CNB euro come from? Where do you think the CNB euro came from? To defend the Kuna, right? There are only two sources in Croatia. Tourism and EU funds. Where did the CNB euro defend the Kuna? If you have a disturbance in tourism or if you do not have EU funds coming to us, how will we defend the exchange rate of kuna? What are we going to defend, what policy can we defend in 7.5? So, I agree it's this debate, but I'm saying, this is more of a matter for the governor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107117	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107118	Thank you very much. Here's when you mentioned the governor, I also mentioned probably he now uses all the chefs to make love to the low quality fish, it's his only goal and job, and maybe he's talking to recent Minister Tomislav Coric about how to solve all these problems in a coffee shop where... and the unseriousness towards Croatian citizens is visible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just briefly ask you to tell me, this moment of choice, i.e. To meet the obligations of Andrej Plenkovic to his Brussels employers, it is not a good time, we can count inflation, we can list the purchases and everything that awaits us. However, one key question, which is why Sweden, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and you did not enter the Eurozone because they protect national security, national.../incomprehensible/... their national security, their.../incomprehensible/... what is important Are we protecting her? [[Employed: Honored Representative Lalovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107119	Thank you. My possible answer to this question of yours, because these countries have led monetary policy in promoting the development of society and economy, they are much bigger economies, they are much stronger economies, such as Poland with 40 million people, Swedish, one of the world's most developed economies and the formation of monetary policy, and that is why I care about the governor here, whether, in such strong economies, it allows you to be able, that currency encourages production and development and exports. Unfortunately in Croatia for 30 years, this is what I say all the time, but the exchange rate policy exporters were on the side of imports, on the side of the import components and on creation, not on the creation of production opportunities and exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107120	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107121	Thank you. Like this, you said that we entered the euro in 2007 for you to get through much faster this crisis for 8.9 years. I'm curious to know what you're based on here, what makes you so hard, I think it's a little bit of a flat, but I have to tell you honestly, what about Greece? It is also your claim in 2020 that if we had overcome the crisis quickly because we were in the EU, and we had one of the biggest declines in GDP in 2020. And I think we could possibly get that kind of information and data that would at all confirm your thesis. I'm going to be a little paradoxical, which is a country that wasn't in the EU so it hasn't recovered from the crisis, and I think I'm going to paradoxically ask whatever that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107122	Dear Representative Lalovac
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107123	and I don't think it's cobwebs, I think it's based not only on the Croatian issue, but you can also see these countries outside Europe, which are located outside of a cake that is integrated and which value and which have much more economic downturns than the EU's countries have. Much larger economic downturns. You're asking me about 2007, and, well, here's an example of what happened this year for Corona, okay, we had a drop in yes, but we had the biggest growth on the other side because we recovered in a year, right? How long it took us in 2012 when we couldn't get in charge of the euro, but you know where we had to go, remembers Minister Maric in 2008, we had to go to Japan. We had to go to Japan for yen so we could get, so we could finance our pensions, yes, in Japan. ... Yeah, that's what the conditions were. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107124	Please, let's take it slow. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Lalovac, here, forgive me, to once again go through what we call a group of benefits of introducing the euro as a national currency in Croatia. I'll quote directly from the legal text. Ensuring more stable economic opportunities, ensuring economic growth, the expectation of higher investment, the creation of new jobs, etc., etc. But right now you've mentioned in response to one of the replicas the problem of turning benefits or creating benefits for import structures, not to say lobbys, because then it immediately turns out to be pesorative. So, aside from the introduction of the euro, I assume you are also aware that the entire state must make serious structural changes and turn towards production, according to exports, because only the introduction of the euro certainly cannot guarantee us absolutely anything. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107126	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107127	I agree with you. So alone, self-conversion doesn't mean that it's going to increase the standard. However, the conversion itself to you on the other hand does not mean that you will fall, past standard is. A number of factors influence whether or not it will fall. However, the single market is, in 2007, and I say many forget how difficult it was then to manage public finances, many forget it. Many forget us too in 2012 when the IMF tells us directly how to cut to get the money so you can pay off your pensions. He says cut your pensions, cut your pensions 20%, then you'll get the money. These were unfortunately blackmailing conditions before Croatia at the time. In 2020 and in the future before Croatia are very different amounts only the European Structural Fund is of 600 billion that helps all countries. So different conditions have Croatia when it is a member, and different conditions Croatia has when it is not a member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107128	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107129	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, you have touched one topic that is of great importance, these are our exporters who have somehow already become accustomed to this overrated kuna and are no longer complaining. But those of us who remember for a little while, we remember Nikica Valentiæ and those famous four fours, which means that one euro should be 8.80 away from that. But my question is more about the structure of our economy and how much it is actually ready to move to the euro because we need to be aware that Germany is producing cars, and Croatia is exporting logs and wheat. And it touched a little bit in discussing the topic of different rates of inflation, but there are also different structures of the economy. The share of the processing industry in GDP in Croatia is twice as much as it is in Slovenia and how much of our economy is actually ready to enter the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107130	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107131	I think all that's good is that Croatian businessmen will accept much sooner than what's bad. Honestly between world currencies, and today the whole world is going to have only 2 or 3 currencies, to cut costs, to reduce some pressure on the economy is, because Europe is not going to the euro because it has to fight America, it has to fight China in the productivity of work. It's a much wider story than that story, fighting China and with one currency, fighting America and one currency, and Europe's fight together is to go to world markets. Europe can't, we're too small, we're too small, we're a statistical mistake to introduce the euro at EU level. But the only way we can get into that chain of European values is to fight them, right? We don't have any other sources. We're too weak on our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107132	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107133	A respected colleague of the law is here to respect them not to violate them, right? That's how it's supposed to be. And the criteria are to meet them. We are not, by all accounts, going to meet all the criteria, but we still want to get our throats into strawberries or into the euro zone. Do you feel that it still needs to be more economically stable and then enter, not fly in, and then again and again, how do we do ad hoc work things out if there are any problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107134	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107135	Thank you. So I think the issue of entering the euro in Slovenia was also a political decision, so the Germans said the Slovenians can join the euro if then as the strongest part of the economy in that part. We also know the political decisions for the Greeks to enter the euro, this is a political decision, and in my opinion, honestly is whether or not we have criteria in this part of it today is very difficult to have criteria when you have this kind of crazy in the financial markets. There is a political decision of Europe, ultimately of the Germans. I may be a Germanophyl, and it was always in Croatia what the German had, and that currency meant some kind of stability, even in times of communism, when you had a German brand, you knew you had something to eat, and now we have a currency that the Germans have. I think it's a good society for Croatia to enter with Germany that we have the same currency than to have a currency that's on some margin, regardless of what I think is better for the standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107136	The next debate will be the respected representative of Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107137	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor. Entering the euro zone during the biggest financial uncertainty period, in the period of the largest energy crisis since the EU, during the period of the highest inflation rate in the EU in the last 20 years. It is not wise. It is not wise. One of the main arguments of Croatia's entry into Prime Minister Plenkovic's eurozone were the following, a larger flow of tourists, making it easier to pay, larger investments, easier exports and, in general, improving citizens' standards over time. And then you have one example, which is, say, the height of foreign investment in 2020. in the Republic of Croatia, which amounted to 1.3 billion US dollars, foreign direct investment. At the same time, foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia, which is neither an EU member of $3.4 billion, and foreign direct investment in the Republic of Hungary, which continues to have its national currency, amounted to $3.4 billion in the same year. It just shows that this argument, like a lot of others, simply doesn't hold water. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, there are laws to respect them, not to violate them, such criteria exist to be met, but it is already seen that we will not succeed in meeting all the required criteria, and here I primarily think of inflation that will be greater than the requirements for entry into the Eurozone, but obviously we will allow a certain statistical deviation, so we stick to that child's turkey dot not apply, we will still enter because there has been a disturbance on the market, so it doesn't matter whether we meet those criteria or not. Then what do these criteria serve as one of the main conditions of entry into the euro area from the public debt department to GDP, from interest rates, from the inflation already mentioned and from the fourth such as exchange rate stability? Namely, here it is, and my colleague Lalovac clearly said this is a political project, this is not an economically justified project, this is a political project, in this case primarily the prime minister and his government to enter the eurozone, and the economic indicators are unfortunately not on your side. Well, according to your projections only six months ago, inflation took 2.6%, now it's going to be 7.8%. According to your projections, GDP was supposed to have a 4.4% growth, now it's going to be about 3%. According to your projections, personal consumption should have been increased by 3.2% and will be increased by 1.4%, but the deficit in the state budget will also be increased and the only thing that will grow is state spending. All these indicators are economic indicators that make it clear that we are not ready to enter the eurozone. How are you going to explain to one of your 40-year-old pensioners? a job internship that will have 300 euros in pensions that has to pay 2 euros for a loaf of bread, where are the other food products, where are the overheads, where are the costs for medicines? How will you explain to one worker who works for 600 euros to survive in the Republic of Croatia? How will you explain this to an average Croatian family how it will last one month? You will create another wave of impoverished citizens and there will be another wave of emigration. You know what's going on right now? There is already talk amongst the caterers and merchants that they will increase prices before double showing to be clean and not end up on so-called. Blacklist, so now something that is 13 kuna will already be 15 kuna and it will be 2 euros and everything is clear both in law and in front of God and in front of the people as it is said, and it will again be the most felt by our citizens. And once again I appeal to the MPs, this is a beating point, this is the only thing that should be decided by the Croatian people in the referendum. All of you who vote for currency change will soon cry for the Croatian Kuna, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107138	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107139	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Pavliček, that's exactly what I'm asking you, and it's all about Parliamentarians. Namely, as a citizen who follows this debate has told us, his question is like this. Minority representatives in the parliaments of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary support domestic currencies in their home countries and thus vote in their home parliaments. Here in HS, minority representatives support kuna repression and the introduction of the euro. What motive do you think they're doing that from? Let's say the representatives of Bilek, Jankovics, and there's still a few of them. I'd like to ask your opinion or at least your personal opinion. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107140	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107141	Minority representatives are in the Croatian Parliament most of them, and we are colleagues in the minority. So they will also vote as the majority says and how they get a warrant across from the Croatian government, which is, of course, legitimate. And will they speak differently when they come to their country of origin and feel that their countries of origin should not introduce the euro that is already on their conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107142	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107143	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Pavlic, Croatian sovereigns have been warning problems over a year over the euro, about the rejection of Croatia's national currency. We can talk about economic indicators here now why it's not good. We can talk about Mastrician criteria that were something when it was adopted here in the Parliament, and today they're something else entirely. What I was actually going to ask you, namely Croatian sovereigns together with the Croatian Party of Rights, organized the collection of signatures for the signing of the referendum. More than 330,000 votes, i.e. signatures, were collected. Given the last estimate of the population in the Republic of Croatia, we have 3.8 million, so I suppose we have officially satisfied these 10%, although bureaucratically, of course, it has never been accepted. We wanted to open a public debate we didn't get a chance. I hope it works out after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107144	Thank you. Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107145	Looking at the existing census is de facto satisfied because there are certainly no more than 320,000 adult voters. We are not, unfortunately, but it will remain remembered that we at least tried to stop this project together with the Croatian Party of Rights. And that yesterday, a colleague, already Vucilovic, was the only one on the resolution board who was clear and loud against the introduction of the euro, and everything else is here for some others on the soul and on the conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107146	Now they will speak to the honourable representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107147	So monetary and fiscal policies are the fundamental policies of the macro-economics, so to speak. Now that we're talking about monetary policy, this monetary policy thing, and when we introduce some of these, I'm going to say new currencies or banknotes and start talking about what's an optimal currency area. The optimal currency area should be an area where there is a strong similarity among countries. So we from that first premise or hypothesis can immediately say that there is no similarity between EU countries that have introduced the euro. Therefore, if it were purely economic criteria, it would probably be Euro I, Euro II, Euro III. So Germany and France would have, therefore, their currency, the Benelux countries, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy would probably be in zone II, and we would be together with people, I apologize to the countries with which we are in some convergence at some third level. And now questions are opening up here, and that's me going back to that article number, I think it's 11. The law on information, that it is very bad in Croatia all combined. So the first questions that could be raised in this debate of my euro yes or no, let me say so, to ask if there will be a European government bond or... Perhaps for the financing of the recovery and resilience programme, but we actually need to see how they will finance the payment, because I do not believe that Europe or the European continent will be the most tax burden, so allow some new fiscal centralised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The questions you asked today whether the common currency will bring to the same interest rates, whether they will be the same in all the countries that have the euro, probably not, or whether you can imagine the U.S. with a large number of currencies. So that's all open questions. Secondly, I am sorry that no one from the Ministry of Finance has mentioned one major risk that Croatia is taking, which is a risk of 5.6 billion euros from the SMA fund where your total capacity is 704 billion euros, and currently Greece benefits 60 billion, Cyprus 6.3 billion, and Spain 23 billion. So it's a risk to Croatia if some difolt happens. What's good in this whole story is that the monetary union has actually become a bank, that there's a single supervision of banks. The increased capital requirements for banks and what is actually introduced by the European Systemic Risk Board and what are those stress tests, the test of extreme conditions, there is a resolution programme through a common mechanism. Only a common deposit insurance mechanism has yet to be introduced. And now after this thing of mine, because this is also a political-intellectual issue in general. So after this first part I would always say no, maybe you don't even need the euro. But then I'm trying, in a way, to overcome some sense. Why reason? I will repeat once again that unfortunately Croatia is only 1.1% of your total population in the euro area. The nominal GDP is less than 0.5% of GDP, and what is important is the monetary mass of M1 which is created from M zero on behalf of only 0.2% of the euro area. And what's in that whole story and good and bad, so we don't have our own fiscal capacity, we depend on external financing, which actually guarantees our own fiscal incentives even though we have a very high public debt. And generally we're going to reduce the need for foreign reserves except for the minimum reserve rate, right, ministers from 9% to 1% to wake you up a little bit. All right, well, that's all okay. Which will actually give the CNB more income than the show profits. And what I said to my colleague Lalovac, and what I asked Minister Maric last time, so he'll tell us, but think about what I'm saying. We'll be left with extra foreign reserves. So we're sure to be left with 9, 10 billion euros. So now we have 26 billion, and I think our reserves are CNB's at the moment. When we pay foreign commitments, when we subtract total deposits from banks and when we pay 700 million euros to the European Central Bank, so we will be left with the money under a) or we will be able to spend as drunk billionaires or under b) as a smart state actually creating a certain fiscal fund and saving it for bad times. And as for the CNB, so the CNB won't go away, now I'm working a little instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, doing a little bit of the promotion of the euro, so we're joining the euro system and we want to admit it or not that our Croatian governor is, in fact, one vote even though we're small. A little bit because it's generally plus these six. different, but actually if we look at European institutions [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It may even be the most righteous... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107148	We have two replicas, the first respected representative Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107149	Thank you, Your Honor. My dear colleague, you have asked me one very interesting question, and I think it is very important for the future of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and the EU as such. In fact, we are entering a monetary union, which is one taking away part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia economically, but the identity I would say, and the other is a fiscal step. It is a matter of time before this happens because what we see today, what is happening at EU level, is the increasing federalisation of Europe and surely the next step will be fiscal... By entering the euro zone, we will never have the opportunity to get out of this again and we will not have the opportunity to freely decide within our monetary sphere in Croatia. How do you comment on this future step of growing federalization?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107150	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107151	I personally think that the fixed union will never come to the EU, that's my personal opinion, precisely because citizens of the EU country are actually the most taxed, and that would not go anywhere. Now my initial question is, is the monetary union possible with the fiscal union? Robert Mundell, who is the intellectual father of the euro, talked about a convergence that did not happen, I personally think it is a good project in principle, but the question is how it will develop in the coming years, it is an open question, an open question. But let me make you laugh, we, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have experience coming out of the monetary unions from the former Yugoslavia to, say, conversions to Croatian dinar, so that if that happens, it will remain, don't be left with reservations if it will manage them wisely. So, I don't think we should have any trouble getting out.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107152	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Doncic. The Euro is Europe's struggle with the US and China to produce something and sell something, it's the world's struggle to create some additional value and to have a market for it. Surely it's not easy when you have decisions in America, you have one currency and one fiscal union, one fiscal system. China too. Europe has more countries that have to make a political decision and here we have spoken in a political fight it is not easy to make decisions when you have so many countries. And what is happening today in Europe is certainly not easy for the citizens of Europe because it will certainly reduce Europe's competitiveness in the long term this war in Ukraine and these energy prices. My question is, did this further mention the euro through three levels, was set for the euro 1 euro, my further question is whether Europe will come out of this much stronger after this crisis that will certainly affect the standard And will we be competitive on the world market? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107154	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107155	Are we going to be competitors on the world market and are we going to come out much stronger? I doubt it, I doubt it. But I repeat once again that the best definition of money is that money is public well-being so rests on political agreement and trust in institutions. As long as Germany and France are in a kind of Honeymoon or honeymoon, you will have so long to operate the EU's common currency. And, of course, let's go back a little bit, why am I saying that what I'm saying from the sceptus is, let's go to yes, why are we crossing? You, if you compare GDP per capital of Greece and Germany before the crisis in 2017-2015, Germany has increased GDP 15 times with the same euro in eight years and has increased inequality with the common currency. So, you always have to be careful and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107156	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107157	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Exports create jobs, imports destroy jobs, but when the economy functions perfectly with a central bank focused on full employment and a government that does not limit strict savings, macroeconomic measures can ensure constant full employment. Moving to more productive sectors increases living standards. This economic truth has never been understood by economic policy providers in Croatia who have spent years implementing an economic policy to strengthen the public sector and sell assets by displaying it as foreign investment. Croatia today is a two-sector, state and tourism economy, both sectors do not bear growth, development and prosperity. If the state sector could bring prosperity then socialism would never fail, and tourism could bring prosperity then Tahiti would be one of the richest and not one of the poorest countries in the world. What should have been built by Croatia are strong institutions, but it has never been developed and today we are where we are, a country of great potential that has never taken advantage of that potential. The transition to the euro is just another step in the follow-up to the policy that led to 400,000 people moving out after thousands of years of waiting for their own state. The introduction of the euro was supposed to be the end of the process of creating a richer country, satisfied people, and not self-inflicted purpose in order to achieve the personal ambitions of political elites to the harm of the Croatian people. We don't need the euro, but the euro needs us. The adoption of the euro by Croatia is an important political impulse across Europe and encourages a picture of how the EU is united, while on the other hand, more economically successful countries such as Sweden, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania and Hungary do not want the euro. The euro is adopted because of political ambitions, political elites and the general lack of economic policies in the EU. A picture of the adoption of the euro is being created as a solution to all our problems while it is actually an impotence to make our own strong economy. We hear about how the euro will help economic growth, which is an absolute lie. See examples of the Czech Republic and Romania that do not have the euro and have significantly higher economic growth than Croatia, according to Eurostat 2005 data. Croatia had a total real economic growth of only 5.96%, the Czech Republic had 32.79 and Romania had as much as 55% and those countries had a GDP decline after the socialism fall and then managed to raise and build, Croatia is not thanks to all governments until today. Croatia must ensure its own economic growth and take advantage of everything at its disposal and not depend on the EU's economies and economic growth. The adoption of the euro can be considered when the euro area becomes economically stable, while the Croatian economy is strong enough and independent enough to compete within the euro area, not condemned to stagnation because of fiscal currency, fixed currency, pardon. It is clear that the EU is not economically homogeneous. This is clearly read according to a different standard of life, employment and economic growth rates. Croatia adopts the euro because the government has no capacity to create free, stable and strong Croatia by corruption and affairs. Because of its personal political ambitions, it goes the most politically easy way, and turns Croatia into an economic addict on tourism and EU funds. It is much easier to talk about money that allegedly comes from the EU than to save the collapse of sugar industry, shipbuilding or agriculture. Entry into the euro will neither increase nor reduce foreign investment, investment depends on both the laws and on justice and corruption. These are all problems that the government is not dealing with, but is just talking about how the EU is being saved. Also, delaying entry into the euro will not significantly affect foreign investment. What affects foreign investment is the strength and quality of the economy, and this is not achieved by introducing the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107158	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107159	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Milanović litre, when we started the transition process, Croatia was second to all economic parameters behind Slovenia, today we are unfortunately at the beginning of Bulgaria and Romania and are estimated to need some of the growth rates we have around 50 years. to reach what the EU average is today, and if we don't speed up, it won't help us either, and you said that very nicely in your presentation that currency, in itself, my colleague Zurovec said the same thing about it, it won't help us if we ourselves don't implement those key reforms that we've been waiting for years and that are probably in some drawers like health reform that we haven't seen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107160	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107161	Thank you. So here I can only agree, interestingly, that Croatia and Bulgaria alone are now entering the euro zone, the two countries that are practically the worst, have the worst economic picture throughout the EU, so it is not by accident that Poland remained out of it, it is not by accident that Denmark, Sweden and all other countries that have remained much more prosperous than Croatia have remained outside the euro because they do not need the euro, and they know the benefits of their national currency to improve exports, not what we have been saying is a problem with our importers. So Poland is improving its exports because... the evils in moments when they know it will please their economy, which prevented the CNB and Croatian politics from doing it, nothing, but they were not interested, they were interested in a fixed currency which is closely tied to the euro, and we know that it is not real. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107162	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107163	A respected colleague, the euro is in fact the second most popular currency in the world, is very attractive to third countries and is important to investment, to investment, to trade, so that the importance of the euro should not be underestimated. You have talked here about Member States that have increased economic growth, and they have kept the national currency, but you have forgotten that these countries have become EU Member States many years before it became Croatia, that from this aspect they have much more access funds at their disposal, and then the funds available to each Member State, that this gives them a certain strategic advantage, so that it should also be kept in mind in these companies that you have raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107164	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107165	Thank you. Here, fellow Petyr, I think you were, you were in the European Parliament and you know how things work out there. This is not my opinion, this is the Eurostat's opinion, these are concrete data which clearly shows that the Czech Republic and Romania have progressed more than Croatia. That shouldn't be controversial to anyone. As for the euro, there, we can talk about the economic now reasons why, why it was good for someone to enter the euro zone or not, but here even the left has agreed today, it is a political process in Croatia, it is not an economic process in Croatia, but it is presented as an economic process in Croatia, and the whole story is that some experts say it is favourable to us, and the real truth is that it is a political process to advance the personal interests of individuals within Croatian politics. We can talk now about who has been in the EU for as long as possible and how they have worked, but in the end we have entered the EU unprepared. You yourself know that the work of Europarliamentaries in the European Parliament comes down to correcting all pre-accession mistakes made by HDZ when we entered the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107166	Thank you very much. Now, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107167	Here I am once again disappointed, there is no representative of the CNB, and they do not seem to care because the monetary policy they have introduced has brought Croatia here we are that we must abolish one significant symbol of statehood and sovereignty, and that is the Croatian Kuna. However, it would be good for me against the minister to withdraw this proposal and continue the debate and call a referendum because this violent introduction of the euro at the time when inflation is wild, when I literally once brought an egg here and unfortunately found that the egg farm in Croatia is being extinguished until the competent Mr. Barac knows where he says something to give, to share 2 million kunas for egg manufacturers, and 2 million we produce. I'd just say briefly that the CNB sold out gold and we don't have a gram of gold. 15 tons that's one gold picker gone who knows di and why. Who can explain? I wish the governor was here to explain once why gold was sold. It's for trial, not rewarding him for introducing the euro. That he is now laughing at the point with Tomislav Coric, the main man in the CNB who will review the banks of Tomislav Čovrić, instead of coming down here to the people here now, laughing, laughing. I would just say that the euro and the introduction of the euro do not make it clear to me why we are flocking to the euro until the Czech Republic, Sweden, know Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, introduce the euro. For what? Do they protect national interests less? It is the task of this servant government that turns Croatia into a reservation of Brussels officials to exclusively and only we introduce the euro now at this moment when we do not know what will happen at all. In Slovenia, after the introduction of the euro, 7% are much better conditions and inflation has increased. What will happen in Croatia, Italy, in many other countries? Now at the moment of the war in Ukraine, this looks to me like the crown story was by the moment the first unfortunately in the war grenade didn't fire Putin, when he fired the crown was gone. No more... There's no crowns either, and then, don't think there's no crown now, same case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no fences. So why are you pulling us around like that? Ministers withdraw this, open a debate, part of experts in the Republic of Croatia and world experts say it is not the time for the euro, do not issue for Judas's national interests, do not turn us into a reservation because we do not want the Croats to be limited to the reservation anymore. We fought bloody for a free and democratic Republic. For Croatia where there will be a Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, a Croatian wallet with its wallet in its pocket. Don't represent the party principles you and Andrej Plenkovic have anything to do with these principles as well as most of your colleagues here who will raise their hands to end this kuna, have nothing to do with these principles, nor is it sovereign, nor do you have a sovereign concept, is simply trade, weighting social interests, and now we are where we are. However, it would be correct for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who voted in favour of leaving the former Yugoslavia to give them the opportunity to vote now in fact to shut down, abolish the kuna because who knows when. I don't call this an expert, but I don't understand why Slovakia, Poland, why they didn't introduce the euro. Here, no one can explain it to me. Sweden, if we were better than Sweden, than Andrej Plenkovic wants to be very one in Brussels, he wants to be number one, that we are almost not going to attack Russia alone and defend Russia, he will be the number one who will take everything. I can't say how you treat the Croatian people. It is even more morbid that there is no Vujčića tezgara of Croatian national interests, Croatian monetary policy, I invite you all from HDZ to give me the replica freely, freely. As an ordinary man, I say so, so is your shame raised by the hand to end the Croatian kuna at this time, do you feel a little ashamed. Ministers withdraw this and give the debate and let the Croatian people decide on a referendum on shutting down Croatia itself. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107168	The esteemed representative of Lalovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned several CNB activities over the last 30 years, so you counted first that they sold out gold, right? So it's like a form that, always some kind of folk bank kept in those vaults because of the bad weather. Well then, on the other hand, if they've responded to the Frank case, well, nothing, it's over. So on the other hand, as far as import prices or import lobbys are concerned, there was a lot of hearing that the CNB was actually in that context. Then why do you think that when we listed all this for what it is, then why do you think the euro is so bad, and so much kuna is good that we remain in everything that the CNB 30 years actually needed to provide for Croatian society as progress that in the coming years it would ensure that if 30 years did not provide it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107170	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107171	First of all, I would say that you as a minister have led a more sovereign policy than anyone here who has been exposed to a number of other things, regardless of who will say that you are from a living position. I have to say that you've overnumbered that money, the euro's foreign currency in the CNB is from tourism and funds and more than anything from our evicted people. The most in the EU Croatia in Europe has Croatia out of sight from our persecuted people $5 billion, 7% of GDP to that, I'm sorry that the minister left the habit when I'm talking but I'm telling the truth, the truth. You have evicted the Croats 7 billion, excuse me 7% of the five billion Lalovec colleagues. Five billion euros comes from the evicted Croats we have evicted, and surely my position will change the great experience and knowledge of Tomislav Ćoric, who will now fix everything to be even worse than before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107172	Dear Representative Hajdash Doncic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107173	Thank you. You well replicated my colleague Bulj that unfortunately the Croatian National Bank during its history led an exclusive policy that was a policy under quotes to prevent inflation and did not take care of employment at all. That's exactly the kind of information you're looking at, so comment on it a little bit. So, as it is possible that, although the countries are not the same, that the American Central Bank or the Fed are only looking out at times of the covid crisis, so the asset goes up by $5,000 billion, so it allows the creation of a monetary aggregate M zero from which money is later created, and the CNB has had 10 billion M0s since 2000, so that's that monetary... which is now multiplying, it's now irrelevant and today it's 150 billion to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see that difference in 20 years, and that's because of the lack of money, in principle, of natural money on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107174	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107175	The Croatian National Bank and its monetary policy have done major damage. So when we talk about it and comparing American, I don't know European, anyone's. I think the Croatian National Bank should only defend the interests of Croatian monetary policy. She didn't do that. Today is not clear to me why 15 tonnes of gold of the Croatian people have been sold. Who? Why? At what price? Smack the barns. Who? Where's that money? Why? The only Croatia does not have, means gold reserves. What's that for? Here's my colleague Doncic, I said earlier that more of your Minister Lalovac led the sovereign policy towards Croatia, here according to the Frank case than all the Governments have combined since 2000. It's not here, I speak plainly. At least he had the courage, and those here who hold their hands on the heart absolutely to introduce the euro, so from where right, write a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107176	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vesna Vucilovic will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107177	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected employees of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the introduction of the euro somehow seemed to have put out very high-quality arguments and, for and against, extended a lot of this debate. I'm sorry there wasn't that kind of width in the public debate that would be expected on such an important issue. And I agree with my colleagues that someone from the CNB was supposed to be here today. They are an independent institution, responding to the Croatian Assembly, but this is an issue that is extremely important and where they have their responsibilities and will remain a large part of the questions that we have asked today are irresponsible precisely because there is no one from the CNB who is only relevant to provide answers to these questions. And frankly, in this kind of individual speech, I will look back on the advantages that stand out when entering and introducing the euro area, i.e. the introduction of the euro because I think all these advantages that stand out have the other side of the medal that is mostly not spoken of. And I don't want to point out all these negative things, and I've talked a lot about them, and somehow they honor me for constantly stressing what's negative. Now I'm going to look back on what's supposed to be positive, but I'm going to point to both sides of that positive thing. The first thing we always hear is the Croatian economy and the small and open economy. So we live in a global world and, more or less, all economies are small and open, the free market is and it is always pointed out that our main export partners are right in the EU, so it will do very well for our exporters all together for their competitiveness and for everything else. But it is forgotten that our export markets outside the EU are exactly the countries of the former Yugoslavia, the region, the Western Balkans, call it whatever you want to termnologically. And what's going to happen? How are we going to respond to micro-crisis that can happen in these countries in an environment like Serbia, BiH? How are we going to respond if we don't have any more monetary policy mechanisms at all? Someone will say so we haven't used them before, because CNB, that article in the law that says they're in charge of price stability actually interprets and implements them as maintenance of course stability and so on for years. But not using monetary policy mechanisms doesn't mean they shouldn't be used. Next is transaction costs. One reason that definitely stands is that there will be no more transaction costs, the difference between the purchase rate, the sale rate. But on the other hand, it's not said that a whole series of people who are employed in exchange offices are going to lose their jobs. It's thousands of people who are going to lose their jobs, they're going to get fired. There won't be any need for them. Let's be realistic. In addition, exchange rate differences have been mentioned here that are reportedly lost. That's not true. Sometimes if you follow the exchange rates, if you follow the course you can earn. So it doesn't necessarily mean that companies and business entities on exchange rate differences in the rule of losing, achieve a minus in financial incomes, or expenditures. This can also be financial income, and it can also be financial expenditure. Then there won't be any currency risk, if we're going to have a stable exchange rate, but there's not been any major fluctuations as far as the CNB is concerned. Maybe a little bit of that summer when tourists come, so it's a bigger offer of devising. But more or less that course is around here somewhere. And the only thing our exporters complained about was overestimating that course. Then interest that will be reportedly lower, and we see, Minister Maric said the time of low interest rates has basically ended. Now we're in charge of almost 3%. Before that, it was significantly less. So it's not really up to us. That depends on the developments in the financial markets. And to talk about that risk premium now, I don't know how much it makes sense, because even so far, we've been standing pretty well on interest. And the worst part is that we have lower interest, and that's going to be more in debt, and we're already in a lot of debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107178	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Sacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107179	Dear colleagues, we have already had the opportunity to listen to various implications in some projection of general consumption, to the state of poverty of the largest layer of citizens, pensioners in particular, workers on the minimal. And how will you have certain knowledge and knowledge of how it will affect the financial market for people who are now in charge of loans, especially the conversion of kuna loans? Well something Vujčić mentioned that loans in euro will also grow, etc. What does that mean now for our citizens in that sense if you can explain something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107180	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107181	Yes, now we have means that citizens are in debt both in kunas and in euro, and in principle the different interest rates depend on the currency in which the citizens are in debt. As far as we got here yesterday on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and during today's debate, the answers from the Minister and other employees from the Ministry remain on each individual citizen that he is negotiating interest rates with the bank and in principle everything comes down to what Governor Vujčić said – so look for lower prices, go shopping where the lower prices are – and this is now to pull the parallel, go to a place where the lower interest rates are, refinance as if not every citizen is in a position to do so in the same way that the state may refinance some of its obligations or some large business entities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107182	Dear Representative Bulj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107183	Thank you very much. It's just something that people should decide about, because it's a two-way line here. However, I ask one other question is not mentioned here. Will the governor have the same salary as he is now, or will he have the same salary as at the Central European Bank? So I don't know what that is. Twenty-three thousand euros. Maybe that's why he lobbys us into the euro area? So I'm asking you a question. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. Will he remain paid to the governor, Tomislav Coric and others now at this level of 45, 50, 60 thousand kuna or so much euros if they enter the Central European Bank on wages? Most importantly, most importantly... The most important thing here is to say that it is visible that at this point, violently and forcefully, the euro is to be introduced into one of the most severe crises where we have the greatest inflation, the increase in prices and is expecting us a lot, so here's your comment. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107184	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107185	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you that such an important issue should be decided by the people in the referendum definitely. If the Swedes were able to go to the referendum and if they said it would again mean when the issue was brought also have a referendum on the introduction of the euro, I don't see why the residents of the Republic of Croatia can't. I will interpret your question in a way that the other part is that the introduction of the euro is motivated by the personal interest of individuals, which is for every conviction and I am warmly hoping it isn't. But the fact is that our representative in the ECB, which doesn't necessarily have to be Governor Vujčić, it can be someone else, means that they have far more income than Croatian citizens do and they currently have high-level employees in the CNB. So I don't rule out that motive, but I would really be deeply disappointed if any public servant made decisions based on such motives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107186	The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, MPs and MPs. So here's the debate I've been following. They've all kind of taken sides, dug themselves into their trenches. One cites the benefits of entering the euro zone, others even calling it... terms. We could hear all these views, and we could also see that the people had not declared themselves interested in calling a referendum on Croatia's entry into the euro area. I think there were some political initiatives and attempts to collect signatures that were not successful. So we shouldn't discuss what hasn't won success and what's in the past. We should see what we can do to make our entry into the euro zone as successful as possible. This requires meeting the criteria. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister assure us that these criteria have been met. If the criteria are met, we will enter the euro zone, which means we are good because we have met the criteria. So there shouldn't be any doubt about it. We need to talk more about how we must behave to use our potential in a better way Because the euro is a currency that I have already said is attractive to third countries. [[Intruder Reiner: Do not interfere with the pay phone, please.]] It's the second reserve currency in the world. The euro is a currency selected for almost 40% of global cross-border payments and almost half of the European Union's world exports. In this respect, it should not be questionable that different benefits can arise for Croatia. Those who argue the lack of such a decision that some other Member States have decided to keep their currency miss mentioning that these Member States have been much longer than Croatia, that they have used long years of pre-accession funds, that they have used much longer structural funds and that in this sense they have had the opportunity for those investments that we have had to finance from our own resources, not to mention that Croatia is the only Member State that has had a war on its territory, which has largely recovered most of its own resources. So it seems to me that there should be no dilemma, nor should one be called to high treason or to show the introduction of the euro as representing some of the personal interests because of all the opportunities we had to hear, but also to see other examples of benefits are multiple. To be careful, I certainly agree with this and in this sense I find it particularly important to highlight the strengthening of dialogue with consumer associations. I have asked the Minister of Finance in my time why we may not have decided on stronger mechanisms under the law for the instrument, but as I was told, examples have also been followed by other Member States which also relied on cooperation with consumer organisations to monitor prices. And in that sense, I would like to advocate that, through the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, precisely for consumer associations, the funds that are intended for their work are increased because if they really want to follow what the trade chains are doing, whether they round prices when they are not needed, whether they are raising their margins instead of reducing prices when, for example, the government decides to reduce VAT, the parliament confirms this, and we see that some prices in some trade chains do not follow. So, if we want to have consumer associations that will be able to monitor all this, support and then publish both black and white lists, I agree that both are necessary, then we need to help them in this business. This law has established a number of instructive elements in this direction and infringing provisions, and I believe that all those who have worked on the action plan as well as the drafting of this law have been guided by the best interests of our citizens. There have been a lot of words here about tourism that contributes with 20% of GDP, with 20% of our GDP, what I think is important to say is that the euro certainly favours tourism, but I would like tourism to suit Croatian agriculture and that from the story of how we will connect the green and blue fields to the works and that we really do so in Croatian hotels offer Croatian peasant products. Then we'll be able to say that we're standing entirely on the bumper of the homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107188	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107189	Thank you very much, Vice President. My fellow MPs, so here you have been a euro-parliamentary, you know how much he has used and helped get out of the economic crisis, how much he has helped us to say that we are overcoming the pandemic-related difficulties and, of course, we know what is now going on with the war in Ukraine. And we know that here's how much I've heard in your debate, I absolutely support it means joining the Eurozone to contribute to further stabilisation in these difficult times, but it's precisely that it's going to get further positive effects on our tourism as well, but above all, our economy is here with the help of course European funds that will be even more accessible to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107190	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107191	Thank you, fellow Simic, for the replica, so certainly one stopper for Croatia especially in terms of investment was Croatia's entry into the EU. The availability of funds for those projects that could hardly be realised on their own, and we see, in the end, that one of the very successful projects and important strategic projects for Croatia such as the Pelješki bridge is ending these days and will be released into traffic during the summer where we will finally bring Croatia together, and this has also been realised with the help of the financial resources that have arrived from the EU. Therefore, this membership, which has also often received criticism, should not be underestimated. If we could be better, we sure could. So that we can withdraw more resources, we certainly can, but for that we need common strength and joint work, not leg planting and obstructions that we need. Which often prevails unfortunately in our society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107192	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107193	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Petir, here you have just again raised the question of the referendum on entry or the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think it would be good, and as a Europarliamentary, you can probably also confirm that by joining, by signing the accession treaty, we have actually become that of the EU Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and that is why we have committed ourselves to actually introducing the euro. The second thing that you mentioned in your debate was a white and black list or consumer protection, in fact, Minister Maric said in fact that the whole law is based on that principle of consumer protection. And here I would just like to hear your opinion in what way to actually encourage entrepreneurs, companies exactly not to use it in some way if we can say this situation and to encourage them to do so when calculating prices from kuna to euro. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107194	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107195	You're right. So by joining Croatia, the EU has also committed itself to joining the euro area. It should be mentioned that there were initiatives, political initiatives to call a referendum and that these initiatives did not gather enough support for citizens, so they were not successful and should no longer be discussed. The proposal for this law provides for a code of ethics which companies, i.e. trade chains, should sign where they undertake to behave ethically or not to round prices for more and thus provide themselves with benefits. It also provides for the establishment of an application where citizens themselves will be able to comment on whether these trading chains and businesses are actually sticking to the ethical code or not. I think the instruments that are within the law are good, they can protect consumers, but I appeal that associations are even stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107196	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107197	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear fellow Petir, today we could hear certain flat-rate statements or certain politics in the debate, and among other things we heard that we have been losing the sovereignty of monetary policy, but it has not been mentioned that we have been holding a Croatian kuna course since 1993. and that we cannot use it as an active part of monetary policy, since we are a highly euro-based country and 70% of the savings in the euro, 60% of the credit is the euro, 70% of the tourism income is in the euro. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is already practically functioning as if the official currency of the euro is being used to the euro from independence and we are simply getting used to it at the end of one whole 20 years, which is to make us an even safer country within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107198	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107199	Well, you're quite certainly right about this, all of what you said Croatia is really focused on the euro that it used to be towards the German mark, somehow always believed in these currencies, and citizens were mostly saving more in foreign currency than they were saving in kuna. We could hear a lot of contradictory debates today and a statement here because on the one hand the CNB has been defiled because of all the failures that or not in the moments when the CNB was expected to act, especially with its law-set instruments, and then on the other hand it was said that this same CNB is not believed to be unnecessary, so it is difficult to conclude from these discussions which positions individual representatives are in. I think it would be important to see exactly this statistics that you have presented, which is what brings the biggest benefit to Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107200	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107201	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, the fact is that in this pre-pandemic period, our export structure is improved and larger, which means that our exports are far better than the previous periods. There we can separate exports of goods, services etc., someone will say it is only credit for better tourism, but the fact is that this is exactly what you were saying and the exchange rate and the euro parity, i.e. it means a lot that it could be valued and compared to data, so it doesn't matter whether we are in the euro area or not, so the advantages are huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107202	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107203	So certainly, colleagues Peric, you especially follow this area as a financial expert, and you can certainly say these arguments with the basis of and structured and statistical data that you have, but the fact that the euro has its position on the world market, in world trade, in global investment, in exports, and that it is an interesting currency, is the very fact that the second reserve currency in the world says that if we turn our economy, which is already one part of the euro, in this direction and introduce the euro as an official currency, that we will certainly reduce the pressure on the economics and exporters and provide them with certain stability and security that should not be underestimated in such turbulent times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107204	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107205	Thank you very much. My colleague Petir, here we heard today in a debate from some colleagues, so I would say a little bit of unreasonable criticism about the existence of tourism as a tourist, as an economic branch in Croatia, I think it's really groundless, I would say it's also crazy. We know how much tourism as a tourist branch has brought stability to the Republic of Croatia, especially in this post-covid time, especially 2021. and this year we invest and put high hopes on, that we will have a good tourist season that will further pull us out of this crisis that is conditioned by various, different conditions. And you mentioned in the end that tourism can be a benefit because it is a horizontal activity and where we could include a lot of our sectors, among other things, agriculture that you are closely monitoring and I think that definitely tourism is a very good and positive thing in Croatia, and not that it is thus given grades as flatly as we have heard today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107206	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107207	Thank you, colleague Kleman. As a well-known tourist, you can certainly answer these unfounded criticisms that are said here today that we may have to think differently about tourism, it is quite certain that because mass tourism is no longer in and Croatia has great advantages for the development of sustainable tourism because of all our natural advantages and because our peasant food products are still traditional, which is a country where we are not allowed to plant genetically modified seeds, nor for experimental purposes, 50% of the surface of Croatia is protected in different categories of nature protection and these are all actually arguments that give us the right to offer in these challenging times a different kind of tourism than the one we may have become accustomed to. But tourism contributes to GDP with 20% and tourism has shown great resilience in the covid crisis, and in this sense our thinking about tourism should follow that paper, but the content must be slowly complemented and changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107208	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107209	Thank you very much, Vice President. counterpart Petir, as you said the introduction of the euro primarily favours tourism. I'd like to teach you what we just started. She would dare say that it would be a shame if all those activities that rely on tourism, which is among other things, would say primarily agricultural production if they did not have the benefits that tourism has when we are already talking about the benefits of entering the euro zone. We also heard that over 70% of the income is right from euro area countries. Agricultural production is in the service of tourism. We have a lot of large subsidies for agricultural production. You're one of those co-workers who always points out that. I'd like to ask you specifically now. Do you have any suggestions to go with any amendments to the law or any sublaw that might oblige our hosts to really impose as many Croatian products on the Croatian table?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107210	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107211	Thank you very much. Yes, we do, because we recently held as a Committee on Agriculture thematic session on the integration of green and blue fields in Cavtat, where at the 5th International Congress of Rural Tourism we wanted to talk about all the problems that bother us. Because we have the impression that we're just staying on the story. We tried to invite several major hotelers to this session to testify to how many domestic products they place in their hotels. We didn't get much success there, because they didn't want information to appear with their name that they don't have a large percentage of domestic products in their offer. My proposal is personally to reward those hotels and hosts with an additional star, additional sunflower, tax relief, some benefites if they offer Croatian peasant product in their offer. In this regard, the Committee also has certain considerations that will take us to the competent ministry soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107212	Thank you. Thank you. The next one will be a respected representative of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107213	Good afternoon, everyone. Here's a lot of people here today mentioned that the CNBs should be with us. There's no more Minister, unfortunately. But indeed, the lack of someone from the CNB sends a sharp message and a clear message and about the very function of the CNB that really came down to the ordinary exchange office and in fact many are right when they say that we gave up an autonomous, monetary policy that could in some way maintain and maintain our export industry and oppose certain trends that Slovenia did and, say, at the moment it was called a transition giant and when it worked on monetary policy. So that's devaluation of the course before it entered the euro zone. However, the question arises at all why the CNB is called a People's Bank and the Workers' Front would certainly support the initiative to rename itself, because democratic will and interests have nothing to do with any democratic interests. So to begin with, it should be possible to reduce the explicit hypocrisy of an actual Orvellian type, I think to launch an initiative to remove the attribute of a national from that name. To this, even in a situation of high inflation, rising inflations that have not been seen for decades, thus increasing the prospect that such a move will further increase labour majority standards. But of course not for CNB employees who certainly don't care about inflation because they share their own salaries far above public and state-run wages and the rest of the state sector. Therefore, the second initiative that we would certainly support is that, by amending the CNB Act, the truth is abolished by this monarchic autonomy of an institution that is not actually deserved, it has high salaries and other benefits that we have heard very much about here in the Parliament. That the CNBs don't achieve their basic goal at all is even better. So this goal is prescribed by the CNB Act, which is price control or inflation. By entering the CNB's euro area, it will further degrade its function and limit what the leverages are at its disposal to do something. It will be declared entirely irresponsible for any consequences that we will live here. Because if it means now that an inflation of 7.8% is not maintained at all means its fundamental objective, and that is the price stability that stands in its monetary policy objectives, then we wonder what it will do when problems arise when it comes to entering the euro area. Euro means leading towards policy elimination in favour of technical decisions based on the rules adopted by experts and bringing the euro area national Member States into line with their implementation arguments. This is not the policy of democracy and the principle of the sovereignty of the people and the realization of identity between the people and the authorities. Wrongly, many people here today and from the position speak of the European Monetary Union as some natural community for Croatia because we belong to our heritage. This first points to a lack of understanding of the concept of money and of the monetary union or of the fiscal union. As we enter the euro zone, we do not enter the fiscal union. The fiscal union would mean a common collection of taxes, a common budget that would finance common public policies and would aim at equating, the aim would be to equalise the differences between developed and undeveloped in the European Union. The differences cannot be overcome by the common currency. It's just not possible. Treatment, therefore, of different types developed as equal in front of money, or of the euro, strengthens existing differences. The principle of protection that many have talked about here, and the opposition does not mean the issue of rounding prices, but the issue of relations developed and undeveloped in the European Union and overcoming economic and social differences, convergence that does not come and will not come because the euro will not, the European Union will not be a fiscal union. These rumors of community, eternal belonging to that community and people, etc. First of all, it shows a lack of understanding that there is no fiscal union here. The European Monetary Union establishes a binding framework for economic policy-making, directs the country's role in ensuring monetary conditions, solid money. So... through the establishment of competitive labour relations or labour relations of competition, and based on principle, on the flexibility of wages and prices, which remains the basic adjustment channel as a substitute for the nominal exchange rate [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] become actually the basis of this policy. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107214	We have the next debate of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107215	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard many different dilemmas why the euro, which is why the euro. However, when we compare the advantages and disadvantages of introducing the euro, the benefits are far greater. With the signing and accession of the EU in 2013, we have also committed ourselves to introducing the euro. So it's been our job ever since. And what the colleagues mentioned tried, many who tried the initiative to maintain themselves and the referendum took place failed. Therefore, this is our intention, therefore our obligation. What are the benefits of introducing the euro? So, as a state or citizens, and even businesses are highly in charge of the euro, then what is significant and often alone, and I mentioned the removal of this currency risk for Croatia is so much higher, as compared to other countries that were not so much before the introduction of the euro was euroised. When you look at a table where a graph is shown according to the number of residents and currencies they use, it is important to say that countries that have the largest number of inhabitants have the euro as well. This is, for example, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and then followed by the Netherlands, Belgium, etc. And a lot of smaller countries like ourselves have actually joined and introduced the euro precisely for reasons that they would be one way and because of their economies and because of their role much more flexible and that their economy would be introduced into a more quality system, i.e. they could compete in the euro area. What needs to be said is that it is us as a country whose economy is very much related to the euro, and that is primarily what I said about exports, and this particular service. So it's very important that then this approach and it's made it easier to actually work and operate in these conditions. Also in times of financial crisis as it has already been today, some colleagues have mentioned, so we would be much easier to overcome these financial crises, as is now the one that has been created and caused by the pandemic. So within one year, we have overcome this crisis and our GDP has grown significantly more than other countries, unlike the previous period since 2008, when in fact this financial crisis because we were not a member of the EU has cost us a lot, lasted a long time and could not actually bring much good. In such conditions, the ability to pour capital much higher, so that when the small state, then the capital outflow that happens due to the financial crisis is happening much faster and stronger, because then they can also experience the depreciation of the exchange rate and their currencies, and in so doing disrupt all flows. Thus, in such conditions, here we as a small country now have and we assess the advantages that then the introduction of the euro can be much easier and much faster to get out of any crisis in the future. The fewer and fewer members here are Slovenia, Slovakia, the Baltic countries have actually entered the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107216	Honorable representative Petyr has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107217	Thank you very much. You colleagues said that entering the euro area did not happen as an idea overnight that even when Croatia joined the EU, we took the obligation, meanwhile, to adopt an action plan that was being met, followed up to meet the criteria. If I'm not mistaken four criteria have been met, the last one is still waiting for the final report, is that it refers to inflation. The situation in other Member States has been analysed particularly in Slovakia, Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, to see how things work, which mechanisms are best used especially when we talk about the consumer protection model that is pictured from Slovenian. 12 control mechanisms have been introduced through this law. So, what I'm saying is that it didn't happen overnight, but that someone was systematically thinking, stalling what's good, what's useful, and how best to protect our interests, which will bring the greatest benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107218	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107219	Thank you very much. Yeah, just like you said. I also mentioned that when we joined, we committed ourselves to introducing the euro. In addition, we have seen for ourselves and what the Government has brought right now, so after two and a half years of re-harmonization and adoption of the Action Plan, which will then have to meet all the criteria, so we are clearly considering what are the advantages and what are the benefits and what can be potential obstacles. So it's a long-term, long-term process that is then considered not because someone just decided to do it in office then and then, but because it can really be quality and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107220	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107221	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, the majority of the debate today by some opposition clubs concerned reviewing the need for necessity, justification for the introduction of the euro. But the fact is that we with that referendum on EU accession, which was 10 years ago as citizens, have decided that we will join the European Union and that we will accept all the rights and obligations resulting from that accession. Among other things, it is the introduction of the euro. To our citizens, the notion of the euro is not foreign. More is saved in euro than in kuna and increasingly large purchases are informally expressed in euro. So the citizens believe the euro. And I think that in these discussions, we need to look more closely at the technical process itself and say that citizens will be able to change the kuna into the euro, which are deadlines, a fixed rate, which are institutions where the conversion of the kuna into the euro will be possible and that it is not time for citizens to be intimidated by the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107222	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107223	Yes, thank you very much for mentioning and repeating everything we said again. So it is very important at this point to really point out the way it is going to be done because it is completely unquestionable that we will vote this Law. So, this is something that the Government also has that through these action plans that they have committed to meet, it is not a matter that in these four areas very much significant shifts are achieved, which is to strengthen the framework for preventing money laundering, a cheaper and simpler business environment, improving and managing state-owned enterprises, strengthening the bankruptcy framework, etc. So it's not just an empty word on paper, but then it really has to be done, because these are all actually criteria that measure and ultimately succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107224	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107225	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear colleagues Peric, you are also the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance, and you have also participated in a lot of working groups, and thematic sessions, and round tables, and conferences. By doing so, you know that today's law that we are discussing has not only been made so that the Republic of Croatia and the Resoring Ministry and the CNB have seen other laws especially in the last 7 countries that have become members of the euro area. But also to be seen, let's say, about the inflation that is mentioned today, because, of course, people react emotionally to the word inflation. And what we can hear is that one-time inflation at an annual level was between 0.2 and 0.4% and that this fear of inflation that some individuals today want to impose is not at all so much that they should care about our citizens. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107226	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107227	Thank you very much. Yes, in one way, they want to scare the public with all these figures, and then not to say the way it is, therefore, wider throughout the European Union at the level of other countries where inflation rates are shown to be two-digit in relation to ours which is still below, or on average, the European Union, which is very, very good. What should be mentioned anyway. My colleagues here were saying what when that grandmother who has 300 euros in pension has to pay 2 euros for bread. But the parity is the same. So if 2 euros is 15 kuna and 15 kuna is compared to 2 thousand and 500 kuna, then that parity is exactly the same. That's not why you should be afraid of the public with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107228	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107229	Dear colleagues here on the Committee yesterday we discussed some of the details of this Act, so I'm just curious how you are because I didn't get the right idea whether there would be a chance to answer us, I didn't get the same remark that the HUP also told us. It says when bills are issued for services issued over the period until the end of the past means up to 31. 12. In 2022, the account is issued at 23, it must be in euro, but the service is done by 22nd and should be booked in kunas. I don't know how you figured out how to do that, because we have a question of entrepreneurs. I don't know how it's gonna go. We have to wait for maybe directions to explain it in detail, or there's already some tactics for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107230	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107231	Thank you very much. In fact, the guidelines will explain each individual case in more detail, so it is announced. But what happened, then, was an event that happened until 31. 12. In 2022, if it's invoiced by 31, it'll be normal in kunas. If it is invoiced in 2023 then it will be shown in euro or it will be as far as I have understood double euros and kunas so that it is known that it is the period relating to the previous year, because in fact the calculation of income and traffic will be in 2022, and these are kunas and then this double statement is respected both in kunas and in euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107232	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107233	Thank you. You listed one, two, three things I would refer to. So the first thing to be discussed again, is to highlight the high Eurosilence of the kuna as an absolute justification for having to enter the euro zone. I don't really see how that can be explained. So you have Denmark that in... for two years and he practically doesn't intend to enter the euro zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have countries that didn't even enter the euro zone, meaning like the Czech Republic, Poland. I mean, you just can't take it logically as an argument. The second thing is that our GDP has grown because we are in the euro area. You're repeating some of the arguments we've heard here, so you don't have any arguments. So in 2020, our GDP fell enormously compared to others in the euro area, meaning Europe. So 8.4% of GDP decline is absolutely a record drop in GDP and our closest EU countries have entered the euro zone again, so our close countries have not been comparable in the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107234	Thank you very much. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107235	What when you look at the countries that are close to us in Slovenia, Slovakia, the Baltic countries, so in relation to them, and I think that when these parameters were established given the strength of the economy, I think that justification is very large. Just what I was saying is that in times of crisis, it's very much harder to manage when you're a small country with a weak economy and when you're not in some kind of system, in a system that will eliminate these systemic risks much easier and much simpler than when you're such a weaker economy that has its own currency. I think at this point it's proven to be much easier to overcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107236	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107237	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. So here I would say more administratively list the criteria, those 4 main criteria of price stability, sound sustainable public finances, exchange rate stability and convergence of long-term interest rates as conditions to enter the euro zone. Only that list doesn't say that there are major reform measures. So also in the Croatian economy, in Croatian public finances. In order to achieve all of this, or to come and we came near the entry into the euro area, and I hope that we will also meet this last criterion. So, it took a lot of effort in public finances, a lot of effort and in the economy to control absolutely all these processes, and we somehow confused with the mind that this is one part of the reform measures of the Government of Croatia to improve living conditions, the economy, everything that we are now saying for the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107238	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107239	Thank you very much. Yeah, these are the criteria we're picking up. However, behind this is a tremendous amount of work and effort that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself have seen, and we have seen what has happened in this period, in which the budget, public finances, public debt, etc. has been stabilised. So now we have already not had these two crises, i.e. the pandemic and this war have actually been fulfilled and that 60 percent of the public debt ratio in GDP has already been met. So it's already a sign, and it's just an increase in the share that happened because of the pandemic and all of this is actually a mechanism that we came back much faster than other countries by over 8 percentage points, so that's already a sign of how strong and firm these mechanisms are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107240	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he's going to speak to his esteemed representative, Nikola Mazhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107241	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance. As we heard today in the debate before us, I would say the strategic law of Croatia's entry into the euro zone, i.e. the entry of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. At a time when the Republic of Croatia achieves its strategic goals, among which the integration of the territory primarily with the Pelješki bridge, strengthening territorial security by entering Schengen and obtaining combat aircraft today, we have the opportunity to talk about the fourth strategic goal, which is to enter the euro zone. We need to know that even today's debate that we hear has not come from both sides of the different views to the Republic of Croatia on the plate. So today, we turn out to be talking about whether or not we'd like to be or if someone were to force us into the euro zone and the malts we heard they were making a noose around our necks. I, as a lawyer, always like to talk on the basis of facts, and the facts are such that not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the Croatian Parliament, but, above all, the Croatian people decided in the 1990s when they set out to create a free and independent Republic of Croatia with Croatian defenders and first Croatian President Dr Franjo Tudjman, and later in 2003 when we submitted a request for EU membership in 2011 and I remember in 2012 the referendum. And when he was voted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament with one vote abstentioned at the time, we showed if in that contract, the EU's accession also stood for the euro area when the criteria were met. And then the Croatian people as well as the MPs made it clear which way of the Republic of Croatia. And then in 2020, after meeting the action plan and 19 criteria put into it, which are not simple and if we remember it is also about the deficit, and for the external debt, and for the macroeconomic policy, and for inflation and for all that we are talking about, we have to fulfill it in order to get into the society of the best, strongest and most developed countries at all, and we have done so thanks to the government's vice-president, Minister Maric, who with one of his great policies regarding financial management, both at macroeconomic and thus at the micro-economic level, we have shown that the Republic of Croatia can stand the noise side by side with the best, strongest, most quality countries. This is shown in the final and credit ratings of the Republic of Croatia that are detained, which are stable, which are positive prospects. This also shows the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia where we are among the top 3 countries in the past year, it shows a rise in wages, and a rise in pensions. This is thus shown by all economic indicators that are visible to everyone who deals with important and key matters in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I would not like to see this debate today just as some wanted to view it as a gauze in the fog, but as a historical part of the Republic of Croatia to round up another strategic goal that we have heard from both experts and the scientific public, and from entrepreneurs, and from the Consumers Association, and from the Association of our exporters to contribute and grow economies, and the development of the Republic of Croatia, and to increase its stability, and to attract additional investment and all that the euro is being introduced into the Republic of Croatia. We are as deeply aware as counterpart Kleman said that we are a tourist country, that from tourism we are filling the budget, that from tourism we are practically living and that 70% of tourism income comes from the euro zone, that 70% of the savings of Croatian citizens is in the euro, that 60% of the credit is in the euro. And therefore, all that we already have now will remain without the risk that is present today and with stronger stability and the Republic of Croatia, and its economy and ultimately this will lead to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia living even better in their midst.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107242	The first replica will be a respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107243	Thank you. Dear fellow Mazhar, I am glad that you also referred to what I think should be pointed out in your debate. This is after hours and hours of debate, we are talking today about the final proposal of the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, not whether the euro should be introduced or not. The story started in 2003 when we submitted a request and it lasted a long 10 years of hard times to become a member at all in 2013. A public debate on the Euro Introduction Strategy was launched in 2017. Here also recently in late 2021 was an initiative for a referendum on the introduction of the euro by a sovereign who failed, which means there weren't enough citizens to go to the referendum to decide whether we needed the euro or not. It is more important today to stress that the regulated legal framework, the replacement of the money, the pre-delivery, the conversion of credits and deposits, the dual display of prices, the protection of consumers, is all that is regulated by this law and what attention should be paid to today, not whether the euro should be introduced or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107244	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107245	Well, that's right, colleague Pocrnic Radosevic, we are witnessing finalisation today, and I would say the 20-year goal. So we set out that goal in 2003 when we submitted a request for the European Union. We heard today and some who go to emotions, so the Croatian Kuna that defends itself with blood is not easy to let go. Croatia's Kuna was present and will be present not only in citizens' emotions. Of course every one of us will keep it. But what's more important than emotion is more important security. Daily functioning, everyday life, quality of life growth and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this strategic goal will be achieved as well as all those at the head of the HDZ, as was the entry into the European Union and entry into NATO and all that the first Croatian president, Franjo Tudjman, has drawn out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107246	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107247	Thank you very much, Vice President. My friend Mazhar, here he is. I'd like to add the same to my colleague Anita. We are really talking today about the Law on the Introduction of the euro, not whether we would like it. And I think this would remind me that both Croatia and the 10th of July 2020 were admitted to the European Course Mechanism, confirming its reputation and credibility and systematically meeting the objectives towards the euro area. So that same year is the adoption of a change of swearing plan with a euro that is also well-fulfilled and that I do not count. So in the end, there is also a certain date for the introduction of the euro. So it's January 1st, 2023, and I can only point out that the introduction of the euro is a culmination of the process we've been systematically working on in the last two decades. And I really think that the introduction of the euro will help both the economies and everyone and that when we come under that one roof organization, the European Union roof umbrella that will be where and where and where it will be easier to overcome these inflations and all that is coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107248	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107249	Exactly, my colleague Buddinski. Here is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Finance who is here today all day and at 4 p.m., unlike the individuals we heard this morning, who seem to have more important obligations now than discussions about the future of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens show not only commitment to work, not only responsibility and seriousness, but also shows what others have seen. So the ministers of the European Union, and representatives of the European Central Bank who came to the Republic of Croatia, who came to Zagreb without giving laurels and praise to the Minister and Government, but to see if the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled all its obligations under Action Plan 19 measures related to both macro and micro-economic policies, public debt, inflation. When they saw the huge progress made by the Ministry of Finance and the Government, they could only congratulate the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107250	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107251	Thank you very much. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, an esteemed colleague has clearly expressed his desire to take over the euro as our official currency. As you said yourself, it was not easy or easy, before that we had to meet various criteria. And I will repeat once again just some of the advantages of introducing the euro, which is removing currency risk, reducing borrowing costs, reducing risk, breaking out of the currency crisis, lower transaction costs, strengthening trade and exports. Today, when we discuss this most important act on the introduction of the euro in Croatia, my question to you is just how much are we technically ready to introduce the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107252	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107253	I thank my colleagues Maximchuk for asking. We should absolutely discuss today not only the positive but also the negative and the real consequences of the introduction of the euro. For this reason, and in my debate, I also mentioned monetary sovereignty and inflation, so as fellow Peric and other colleagues, these are some topics that were deliberately placed in public to intimidate the population and the fact is quite different, so from inflation that is 0.2% to 0.4% year-on-year to the sovereignty of monetary policy so that it does not just mean going from kuna to euro, but rather the opposite. And on the trail and this one of your particular entrepreneurs, privates ultimately will have a small one-time cost of, say, price change and what it takes to see double prices but long-term profits for reduction and interest and reduction of transaction and conversion costs will contribute to having a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107254	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107255	I like numbers, so we can actually count all the successes that have been achieved from 2016 to today. So the average net salary increased by 32%, by 1824 kuna. Also, pensions that have grown by 409 kuna. The nominal GDP increased from 344 billion to 431 etc. International money reserves are over 25 billion euros. So it's all very important to mention what was done, how it was done, and now according to the story like this when other colleagues tell us, then everything that has been successful and what has been achieved should be forgotten and now being questioned if we've done anything right. We are, and we want to do a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107256	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107257	Thank you, colleague Peric. Well, I'm a lawyer, so we're not really with numbers on you, but we can maybe find some common ground, which is a fact. The figures are facts and here we lawyers are catching up to the facts, and the fact is that thanks to the fiscal and monetary policy of this Government of Croatia we have created not only the preconditions for entering the euro mechanism two to meet the criteria of the action plan for the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia but also in those I would say the most difficult times when we should be in charge and when we should, therefore, make and transfer to the currency of the euro, and if we are not a member of the Eurozone thanks to the European Central Bank we have succeeded and the minister knows best. And when we were in charge of both our bonds and everything that we had a much better quality and better interest than some other countries just because the successes and the facts speak theirs, which is recognised by all Europe and the world, and unfortunately these individuals He'll never be happy in success. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107258	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107259	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Mazhar. Fear of a new one, I'd say, is justified. It's something that brings new challenges. Of course, small people may not even have enough information, but we who sit here in the Croatian Parliament, although we are not exactly here, we have more information in particular. What I want to point out and this is Minister Maric as soon as the story of the Eurozone started, Croatia's entry into the euro was the concern of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the ministry of the protection of those smallest consumers so as not to have a stampede price, that our traders are often a little slow about price hikes, reduce their VAT they raise the cost of costing their product. And I think that it should be clear and loud and say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry has instruments as well as those actions end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107260	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107261	Well, thank you, colleague Ivanovic. Unfortunately, we always have, I'd say on-call panickers who deliberately sow panic. Let's just remember the beginning of the covid and the announcement from the opposition that there will be 400, part of the opposition that there will be 400,000 unemployed. So let's remember now about energy prices that practically Croatia will run out of gas and everything else. So let's remember, and now that I'm introducing the euro, I don't know inflation is going to jump so much that people are going to live on a beggar stick. Thank God that nothing is true except for these certain evil prophets and their hopes. What we can see is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately the RES through a series of public debates, open councils for the euro, thematic sessions, round tables absolutely since the first second everything has been done transparently so that every citizen in the Republic of Croatia has complete information at all times. And what has already been in place since September before the introduction of the euro will be double prices heading towards the next year, i.e. 16 months, citizens can control prices in kuna and euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107262	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107263	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here is my colleague, Mažar, and you have also pointed out how much the introduction of the euro will mean for tourism and that more than 70% of tourism income comes from the euro area countries. That's where I'd say there are a number of activities that rely on tourism. So if tourism is to benefit it will certainly be agriculture and trade and construction, etc. This will contribute to the growth and development of the economy through more stable economic opportunities, to the safe and attractiveness of certain investors, to the development of investments, and thus to the increase of jobs. When it comes to tourism, I would also say it is mostly viewed as tourism and tourism development in the coastal part, but it is also more and more important to develop this development in the continental part, which means that the introduction of the euro, however much in the tourist parts of the coast, will contribute to the development of continental Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107264	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107265	Thank you very much, colleague Juričev-Martinchev. So, absolutely, the benefits of introducing the euro are numerous. For our citizens, in particular, everything that we already have in the banks will automatically be converted into the euro at no extra cost, but also everything we haven't had so far, and the tourists wanted from the price in the euro, so we will now have exactly what you say when tourists come not only to Dalmatia but also to the continental part of Croatia and when they see the example of my colleagues Ivanovic and me in Slavonia and Baranja that the weight of the beads is 5 euros, then they will surely be easier to access and buy our domestic Slavonian products, because in their currencies it won't look much like in their countries, and we will certainly see it very soon as the effects of the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107266	Thank you very much. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107267	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the distinguished co-worker of Minister Maric, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow we're going to discuss whether we're going to disband HS and I'm sorry that I've never had a chance to speak in front of a full assembly, and maybe tomorrow the assembly will end, so I'm really going to be denied that wish and it's really sorry that I have to express. I'm sorry that our citizens, I'll be back on the subject later, but I have to say it, I just think it's part of political hygiene, political culture. It used to be important to accept it, why we're discussing important points at 5:00 p.m., why we're discussing Tuesdays, not Fridays when we watch television more. Today we are discussing a point of the agenda that is fatal to the Republic of Croatia, which changes monetary policy, introduces the euro as a way of payment and a means of paying in the Republic of Croatia, and it is absolutely not interested in anyone here except for a few spoken flossules, criteria, inflation, we are not ready, we are going down like geese in fog, external debt and nothing important is said except here are these few flossules. Each government, a serious government, the HDZ has a government that is very serious and a government that has received the trust of Croatian citizens based on the programme. One of the government's programming points was the introduction of the euro or entry into the eurozone, meaning the courage and wisdom of the people who lead both monetary and fiscal policies must be at that level. There is no Minister Maric here, but quite still, many MPs have told Minister Maric, and the general public of the Republic of Croatia that it is the best minister of finance in the history of the Republic of Croatia, so why do we not trust this man, do we really think that this man wants bad Croatia, that he wants to bring Croatia into the society of bad countries or wants to make Croatia a better country, a country where people may return from the same country for some reason. My colleague Lalovec is fine, he spoke well. He said with everything perhaps that exists that we are still entering good society, we are entering a better society, a society of countries that are economically strong and stable, and only when compared to the 9th century. in 2013-2022, we can figure out which benefits Croatia has achieved by joining the EU. If we weren't a member, where we were lucky to be a member in 2007. Croatia would certainly look even better, but regrets, the fact that this topic mostly has several flossules spoken in the Croatian public, and here we have heard from the relevant people, I am not a financial expert, not a macro, not a micro, nor any one, but I am a man who listens here to what smart people say. So from any point of view, I can't agree with anyone who has only a political ideological mantra to do any harm to Prime Minister Plenkovic and the finance minister in any way, who has diminished him and caused some kind of broad political, daily political debate, I believe that Croatia's entry into the Eurozone is a historic event, it will happen, we have entered the process, it is a programme and a programme of government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is to be congratulated on people who have done what they need to do to do, and I will end up with it, protecting Croatian citizens from those who will try to rob them in any way, in any way to do what is not in accordance with both morals and ethics, and at the end or patriotism, it is necessary to fight against them. I am sure that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have instruments for such action. So here is another congratulations to Minister Maric, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, congratulations and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic as a man who keeps his promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107268	Thank you very much. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, raised by a respected representative, Bulj, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107269	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. The 238th demeaning MPs because they think differently from him and he says it's us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107270	I'm sorry, there's no disrespect. You get the basis of Article 239 of the notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107271	...that you, smart ones, are the only ones who will vote for the introduction of the euro, and we are all other fools...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107272	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107273	...and I say that you are all together, all national interests and peoples who vote for the introduction of the euro without a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107274	Please stop. On the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107275	Let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107276	I have given you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107277	I didn't hear you. I was talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107278	That you're not listening to me...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107279	When you said it, the other day, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107280	...but you're talking to yourself, that's your problem. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107281	But in 30 seconds I was, you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107282	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107283	I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107284	I'm saying that you've been given the basis of Article 240, I'm going to repeat, point 2 of the notice by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107285	And when did you say that, when did you say that? Inside the box...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107286	Don't discuss it with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107287	So I'm not discussing just saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107288	Based on the article, I'll give you a distance notice for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107289	... that not only are those who vote for, who vote for, who vote for the euro, for the euro, the introduction of the euro I say are traitors and against the people... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107290	On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the distance of the session for today's session. Please leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107291	So let the representative speak while it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107292	No matter what time...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107293	Well, 30 seconds an hour is time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107294	...you have no right to abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107295	Well, it's not this, so this isn't hereditaryly yours... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107296	You have no right to abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107297	I didn't hear you tell me I hurt the Rules of Procedure because it was within 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107298	It's me, it's your problem, I'm sorry, you're not listening to what the chairman is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107299	And why don't you warn someone who says they're stupid who they are, who aren't going to introduce the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107300	You want me to, I'm asking you nicely to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107301	This is just high treason. Which is why, because you are afraid of a referendum on the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107302	On the basis of Article 241(3), I give you a distance from the double-term session. Keep saying that. I'm asking you nicely not to disturb the work of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107303	You've become foolish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107304	Dear Representative Simic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107305	Dear Vice-President Ivanovic, so here we approach the conclusion, the final address of the representatives' clubs, we've heard a lot, so tell me what your final opinion is in terms of whether the issue of introducing the euro is a political topic or whether it's a subject which is primarily a financial topic, an economic topic. Whether the introduction of the euro in your opinion will contribute to the improvement of all the economic branches of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is worth mentioning also the fact that today the National Council for the Introduction of the euro was held where all the benefits of the introduction of the euro were presented, but also presented, as well as to say one guarantee of the future of our kuna which will become here as Croatia became an integral part of the EU so that the Croatian Union, the Croatian Kuna, will be found on euro coins or coins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107306	Thank you very much. Just a moment, please. I'm asking you to leave the hall, you're deliberately not going to do this you don't respect this assembly... You do not respect this assembly, you despise this assembly and despise democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The system of democracy obviously means nothing to you, parliamentary democracy... Dear Representative Ivanovic, please proceed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107307	Thank you very much. He entered loudly, and came out quietly before I responded to the replica of Mr. Honorable Representative Simic. Yes, of course this is a historic moment and there is no dilemma in general and this is also a political moment and this is all the time, after all, this is the moment when the programme of one government that won the 2020 elections, and one of the specifics of that programme was also the eurozone and the introduction of the euro as a national currency is the achievement of that objective. Therefore, we have nothing to discuss in this way at all. As for the markings that will be on the euro coins, the euro bills I think we have perfectly hit the symbols that in the best possible way show that this is Croatia, that these characters on these bills are what always happens to every tourist who comes, every citizen from another country can be an association. it is located in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107308	Thank you very much. Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107309	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, here's a colleague before me mentioned that yesterday she was a session of the National Council for the Introduction of the euro where the finance minister also pointed out that the average inflation this year was 6.3%, which is at the EU average level and believes that the Republic of Croatia will meet this criterion as the final decision, the final decision on the introduction of the euro that should be somewhere in July this year. Also presented is a one-euro note with a kuna motif that we are certainly glad that in the open competition we have even received a proposal from one of the students from Croatia. It is recognizable and a reminder is the current bill we use and we are proud of because it represents both free and independent Republic. Also mentioned at the national session are the preparations for printing money that should start at the 7th month to be used since 1 January 2023 euro bills. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107310	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107311	Thank you very much. Perhaps this time of Croatia's entry into the euro zone, the introduction of the euro is more challenging than perhaps a year or two ago. Let's be honest inflation that has prevailed across the EU, and at the end of the world and end of the world, something is not only happening in the Republic of Croatia, but when compared, these figures with EU members, Croatia, are still relatively and well, it is good. But challenging times are precisely that show whether we have enough courage, whether we have enough wisdom, knowledge, visions to make the Croatian state the way our citizens want it, and that it is equal for everyone to give everyone equal rights and that people ultimately live well in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107312	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107313	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Ivanovic, well, here are 19 countries in the euro area, and to enter the euro zone, you need to meet some criteria. As far as we know only Denmark has said it will not enter the euro zone, the others must probably meet some criteria. But we're not gonna do it now... I think when we hear that it will cause inflation, that people are not for the euro, so when you listen to our farmers, farmers, medium and small entrepreneurs all support and say that it will be much better for them for their business and for everything else to introduce the euro. Of course there will be inflation, but inflation is certainly not caused by the introduction of the euro, but by the situations that you have just stated yourself that are certainly caused by war in both Ukraine and all other things that happen before the war. So I'm really interested in whether this euro is really going to help both agriculture and the economy? Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107314	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107315	Thank you very much. I'm going to start with this last one, and even now, farmers are actually talking to the euro. European markets, global markets are expressed mainly in euro, oil grain prices or any agricultural products, already operate in euro, and I think that farmers will be easier, the price of machinery, everything that goes with it. You stressed that some countries have said that they will not introduce the euro and Finland has not shown any interest in joining NATO so this will happen, so it carries its own at all times. I would say that this and perhaps the EU's wealth is that it did not force anyone to introduce the euro but said you would introduce the euro as soon as you are ready and, of course, meet certain criteria required and require that the euro area be joined at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107316	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107317	Dear colleague. I didn't really want to report for the replica, but you encouraged me with this last part of your debate when you said that the Croatian government would protect Croatian citizens with instruments, so I want to know what instruments the Croatian government will protect its citizens with when we see that the Croatian government is now failing with no instruments to protect Croatian citizens from price increases. And in the law itself, it is clearly defined that neither the government will deal with price increases but will miss the supervision of these associations which will then be able to criticise certain ways of those who raise prices, and as far as the banking sector is concerned, I have said several times, the part that should have been regulated in which way the interest rate advantage will be changed. Today there is no governor who could have said anything about it, nor is it legally prescribed that those citizens who were responsible be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107318	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107319	Thank you very much. The first part of your replica, or the question that the government has not protected the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is absolutely not standing, it is not true. These last two years, which will be historically proven to be the most challenging years in the past, so I would say from the 20th century to here, the Croatian government has done a lot for Croatian citizens, for Croatian entrepreneurs, for everything that means preserving that basic substance without which one state cannot continue, and we have witnessed it here in HS and would say on a daily basis. As for protection, we must finally understand that this is our country that our citizens live in it and that anyone who tries to deceive those citizens who want to take money is not a good citizen, is not a good factor of society. Therefore, there are no universal instruments and so effective that we would protect it. We must say and be aware if the state helps us, we return to that same state, but often this love is not mutual, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107320	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107321	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia in the second reading. I can conclude that there is absolutely no objection to this law because I have not heard anyone say that this article or that article is not good, that it should be changed or that I do not know whether any amendment has been submitted to any of the articles. The remarks are only about the introduction of the euro, whether or not to introduce it, that's how I could read it from this debate. In fact, we still know when we applied for membership in 2003. that we could have known that one of these laws would come to our benches. We had in the Croatian law and the accession treaty on 9 December 2011 which we confirmed. When we talk about the referendum and the membership referendum we also had on 22 January 2012. and then two-thirds of our population confirmed and wanted EU membership. Today when we talk about any purchase of sales, I don't know if any of our citizens are talking about the price of square meters of business space, residential property, etc. that he doesn't speak in euro. We have heard 76% of the total savings and hand-to-hand deposits in banks are also in euro, over 59% of the goods imports are carried out with euro area countries, since 10 July 2020 when we entered the European exchange rate mechanism 2, two and a half years industriously to meet the action plan and criteria of price stability, sustainability of public finances, exchange rate stability, convergence, long-term interest rates, and now we can proudly say that we have met these criteria because by introducing this euro, we are removing currency risk as we have heard of which to the population and the state are extremely exposed. This will increase competitiveness, attract investors, expect more stable economic opportunities and growth, greater investment, new jobs. After the introduction of the euro and the vote of the Republic of Croatia, it will be taken into account when making decisions in the most important European financial institution, i.e. The European Central Bank. We could hear from the minister that our priority is to protect our citizens, maximise employment, and, as he said, I will quote it exactly not to compromise negatives. Therefore, all that is important to us here today and not just to say we are against the euro and so on. Through various articles, it could also be heard today that I don’t know 20,000 people in exchange shops will lose their jobs. It should be said that with 31.12. In 2021, we have 1148 authorised transmissions with valid CNB approvals, some of which operate about 1,000. Many of these are permanent or occasional seasonal. All 250 have exchange operations as a basic and dominant activity while they remain secondary, I don't know at hotel receptions, camps, tourist agencies, marinas, gas stations. I'm sure it'll cost the banks the most. According to some estimates, they could have more significant revenue losses due to the reduction in the volume of exchange rate transactions and the loss of income from positive exchange rates. In fact, kuna loans, savings will turn into euro, which means less interest on loans. What is important for this law is to say, and most importantly, it wants to protect consumers from miscalculation and rounding prices, and that is exactly where the recalculation occurs, rounding even during that period when we will have double prices that these facilities are not bound by justifiable higher costs, which they are. So from those midwives in the market to totems on gas stations and stuff. That this will positively affect tourism and investment and strengthen international exchange and reduce transaction costs will make us all happy together and we should not forget that just joining the EU has brought us numerous benefits and those bringing European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107322	We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107323	Dear colleagues, you speak falsely when you say that no one has objected to this law. I took it out here at the pay phone three times, twice on the board and at least one or three times in my replicas. The problem of interest rates defined in Article 58 where the fixed interest rates agreed by our citizens in kunas so as not to be responsible for themselves and society remain unchanged independently of what you and your colleagues from the ministry and Vujčić in front of the CNB explain that by entering the euro area, the interest rate will be less. No, Article 58 clearly defines that you have sided with banks and that banks retain that higher interest rate which they have previously explained by having a higher risk when they are in the kuna, but when they are in the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107324	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107325	Comrade Grubniæ, I will now apologize publicly to you because I have really tried to listen to all the debates and I have not heard, nor have I seen any other amendments. If you have submitted this in the form of an amendment... Okay, but... [[/Intruder Brumnic, you don't understand.]] We're not gonna pollemize like this. [[Please, come on, we won't...]] Mostly today, I did not hear any comments on an article, nor did I hear that the amendment had been submitted. [[Intruder Reiner: So from the spot and the pay phone.]] Here's my apology if you said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107326	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107327	Thank you very much. Today we've heard a lot of flat-rate reviews from colleagues from the opposition. I would agree with you if no one really denied this law except I would say from some folk initiatives. I'd look back on one situation again about tourism, and I know you're following it as closely as I am. You know that tour operators, so all those who co-operate with Croatian tourism all prices are expressed in euros, including those countries that have not introduced the euro as their currency. And the whole time you're talking to them about whether you're going to enter the eurozone, when you're going to enter the eurozone, and that's one incentive, and today, in the debate where we discussed these problems. But it's another moment. A month ago, I'm talking to a prominent tourist worker and he's telling me, you know, instead of just asking if we're going to enter the eurozone they're asking us if we're in NATO membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107328	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107329	Thank you very much. So, colleague Kliman, to speak and repeat yourself about tourism again, we all know what benefits we have from tourism and we as a country and how significant the share of GDP is from tourism and that all activities are based on this activity, as well as when you mentioned the prices I mentioned earlier that there is essentially no citizen who buys or sells land, facility, business space, rents without prices in euro. They also value accommodation. For many years now, when you ask someone how much your bed price is, I think she's also a midwife who's not even been educated without an underestimation, I don't know how many elementary school classes she's got, that she's gonna tell me she's got a bed of 10, 15 euros, and she's not gonna tell me how much she's in kunas. Therefore, this is far easier for tour operators and also for guests regarding the comparison of the value of accommodation, facility and stay in a hotel in Croatia or another euro area country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107330	Thank you. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107331	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have repeated all the benefits we will have after the introduction of the euro and we are all aware of that. In addition to many of our fellow citizens and legal persons dealing with tourism, which you yourself have mentioned will certainly be much easier after the introduction of the euro, I am sure that many of our entrepreneurs, especially those on the external market, are looking forward to the introduction of the euro. However, I also want to point out that I agree with what my colleague Daus said, I think the problem is in the amount of money, so he said, but the amount of money is the same, either in the Republic of Croatia, whether it's about kunas or tomorrow in euros, and I think it's the biggest problem that our poorest citizens will experience and that the government will certainly be looking for solutions and I think that part of the citizens is, in fact, the most concerned and that the government will try and make the wages grow and that pensions grow and that the standards of these citizens will certainly improve, so I ask you to say something about what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107332	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107333	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, so we all share the concerns of those of ours, I would say the most endangered layers of the population, and no matter how many euro we have yet to witness, as well as those colleagues have said, that the prices of individual products are rising, above all the energy, but we also see that the government does not sit down, that it has also gone with the package of measures and that I will also be sure in the next period when the layers of the most affected, which need our most help to react. Here we have, now there's a budget rebalance, and then it's possible to expect there to be some positive reactions, because already these especially retired workers and those workers who live and work for the minimumer are already very vulnerable to price levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107334	Honorable representative, respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107335	Thank you, thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, we have already exhausted these topics and I have to apostrophe something, my colleague Bulj was away from the session because he was saying something that is also false and it is a very dangerous truth that Croatia needs a referendum. We had a referendum initiative against the introduction or the introduction of the euro in Croatia. The initiative was legitimate, it was legal, it did not collect a sufficient number of signatures, but those who may not have supported the initiative today say that Croatia must not enter the euro zone or introduce the euro unless it implements the referendum. I think that the ex post mind of this reverse thesis that we are fully listening to here in HS is a significant confusion between the Croatian public, and on the other hand it does not absolutely contribute to that better Croatia, which this government is seeking to achieve with its own programme, and ultimately, by its own action.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107336	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107337	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Ivanovic, you're right. The fellow Bulj is again called for a referendum, they have had an attempt and the citizens have not given them so many signatures that it is legally possible to implement it. It should also not be forgotten that this referendum is costing something and it would cost you the same citizens again, and I mentioned the outcome of that referendum for EU entry when 2/3 of our citizens agreed and said they wanted to join the EU, and we know that the EU is then a natural sequence that one day we accept the euro and enter the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107338	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107339	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, here is today the meeting of the National Council for the Introduction of the euro confirmed the fact that the Republic of Croatia is the most Euroised state outside the euro area. What does that mean? So the facts that contribute to this are that almost 76% of the total savings deposits in banks are right in euro, that almost 50% of the total loans are related to the euro clause, and that the amount of goods imports and exports is averaged to 55% of the euro area countries. All of this adds to the fact that the only thing that follows us in the deeper integration of EU entry is the introduction of the euro along with entry into the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107340	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107341	Thank you very much. Col. Simic, at this very same session, continues to be happy and says, again, we expect a decrease from 2.8% this year, and 1.6% in '23, 1.2% in '24, while the public debt will decrease from 79.8% this year to 76.2%, and so we have a lot of figures and facts that say what our government is doing in circumstances that are not, not encouraging. We know that the price of energy increases, we know the situation in Ukraine, all of which is naturally reflected on our country, as counterpart Kleman said, our place and position in NATO, and similar effects on development, on life in the Republic of Croatia and on the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107342	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107343	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I think that we have heard more or less today, and a lot of things have been said, but in the end, I would only consider that information is one of the most important features, so, in some ways, I think that this is the last year that we go into the last phase of this process, it's important that everyone, that we all sensitize on this topic together and raise the attention of all citizens, I think that in some way we have to explain that there are no stories of what it is, and here we hear it from both our fellow parliamentary representatives a lot, but I think that one piece of information would still be part of our own obligation that we, in particular, in the areas where we live in some way, inform our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107344	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107345	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, what you said about the task of all of us here in the assembly of parliamentary deputies is that we tell our citizens what it is that they get with the euro, if we're going to scare them with it, then it's going to be even worse. Surely then their position, their thinking and refusal of the euro itself here are some saying it will look different, it is no longer ours, it was certainly kuna only ours, but we have long ago, as I have listed, already filed for membership, confirmed the accession agreement, entered the EU and thus got a lot on the other hand. I haven't been able to tell you how much we've withdrawn funds from the eu funds, so it's something our citizens see at every step, a street paved, a road, a garden built, a school we can't forget, it's all in our set. As far as prices are concerned, this law seeks to ensure maximum protection of consumers and citizens so as not to go wild.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107346	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107347	Honorable MPs. I believe that when you have made little analysis of the situation in Croatia and what is actually happening to us after the introduction of the euro and all those events, I think there would be very few citizens of Croatia who would be against the introduction of the euro. But we need to be aware that this will make business easier for our business and the stock exchanges because, let's say, in the market for food, they're being recalculated in kunas, and they're counting in euro. So you have one step higher and it's hard to really do business in such conditions. But we must be aware that the current situation in Croatia is not very great, it is not very great, and therefore there is one skeptic among many of our MPs and they have made a skeptic out of it here, and besides that you are probably aware that at the moment Croatia does not meet the conditions for entry into the Eurozone. I hope that this will change by the end of the year and that the European Commission will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107348	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107349	My colleague Pavić, the Republic of Croatia, has met all the conditions. What we've said before if we're going to scare people in some way what can happen to them then what you say may most citizens say no because it's going to collect prices, it's being talked about all the time. And you would also ask any of you parliamentary opposition MPs if it were your time, when you are at any point any of you from what age thinks this is a good time and now Croatia is in a good situation stable on all matters. Every time we talk, this is my third term, every time the opposition calls out, it's never been worse for our citizens, and it's going to be worse and it's going to be worse with this law, and it's always that way. That's what we hear all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107350	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club... Thank you, don't, finally speak to the esteemed representative Dalia Oreshkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There is no loss of the right to speak, and then finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Anton Kleman, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have been listening to debates all day, and I would agree with my colleague Branko if we hadn't essentially gotten some major resistance to the second reading for the introduction of the euro as official currencies into the RS payment system. I think this law is good, it's well discussed in both readings, and in addition to small remarks, I would say what I said in one replica, and almost folklore where certain political groups are trying to report that we will lose sovereignty if we introduce the euro, that we will be traitors to our people if we vote for entry into the euro, I am just convinced that with that act on that next Friday 13th is a sign Friday 13, but I will be happy when we introduce the euro, when we practically introduce the euro into the delay, that it will be a good date for the Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen. I would say that the Republic of Croatia has had several strategic high positions since its formation, and this is the acquisition of independence that we unfortunately earned through the bloody war, so we managed to do so under the leadership of President Tudjman, so we have practically entered NATO and the EU, and I think these umbrellas that we have received with NATO and EU accession are very good and they have simply moved us to a good position so that we can deal with all the troubles that have been behind us, and in front of us, and it will probably be the same, but this umbrella umbrella is also going to bring us a lot of good. And what we heard through today's debates, I have no doubt about it at all. I would say that our efforts as well as the Ministry of Finance, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia were reforming, so they weren't self-administrative, but they really needed to be done a very large part of the work and it was seen through all these crises that we've had through this recent time since 2000. I'm here and I don't think there were any of those mechanisms I think I'd get much, much worse. There was also a speech that we fell in 2020. that we've had a very large decline in GDP. However, we forget to say that we were in 2021. We have the biggest increase in GDP, we simply have such an economy that depending on service activities is still dominant, it is tourism and it has proved in some way and a good situation in that part. But we also saw a certain resistance of the Croatian economy precisely with exports, and exports were the highest in the euro area countries. So it is really important to note that when we put in pluses and minuses, the pluses are extremely on the side of the introduction of the euro and I think that today's debate and the previous debate in the first reading showed all the benefits and that this is simply a good decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In a way, I would also like to thank Minister Maric, who led the badge to this degree. I'd say 1.1, too, we'll apply that well when the euro is introduced. But also to the Prime Minister who has indeed done so in a strategic decision together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have yet to introduce Schengen, and I think we have closed down some of our strategic positions here for now, and I think this will be very, very good for Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much, and a normal HDZ club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107352	You, too. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, the final club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107353	Good afternoon. I'm gonna look back on just a few notorious nonsense we heard in this debate, so I don't think it's a little replicated after all. Without intending to defend anyone, but mentioning the referendum of some initiative as an argument that there was a referendum and that this democratically voted in the euro zone was complete what I mean by nebulosis. And mentioning the entry into Europe as a referendum for the euro is again additionally logical indeed gymnastics. It is a referendum that voted less than half of the voters who threatened the pensioners, and I remember very well that they would not receive pensions and there were a few similar arguments for which the law was amended to pass the referendum. So much for that, purely factographically, these are not simply arguments that should be taken as relevant. And in the debate of Minister Maric, who is not here with us now, as he is not with us here, nor the CNB who should be there to have some normal debate that may lead to some amendments even though the amendments here really do not need to be submitted. We don't know the debate is anything wider than whether or not they should be coins like this and how the amounts should be rounded up. So the minister said in his debate that employers are satisfied and that credit institutions are satisfied, so that's what needs to be answered. Of course, they are satisfied that by entering the euro area, it means an appropriate way to achieve competitiveness becomes a cutting of wages, raising labour intensity and pressure on public authorities to further flexible labour relations. Of course it suits those who hailed this. In doing so, we need to repeat that we have serious experts who are not in favour of entering the euro whether we are or are not, but these are arguments that should be cited and not hide the fact that the Nobels are experts such as Stigtiz, Krugman, Janis Varufakis, Wolfgang Streeck, in spite of the fact that they are not entering the European Monetary Union. What turns out to be some kind of framework here, and that is what some worry about is that the European Monetary Union is being established as one framework for economic policy management, where even less, means having the influence of the CNB through the establishment of these competitive relationships or working relationships of competition, the flexibility of wages and the price that will become ours and is already, and it will become the basic channel of adjustment as a replacement for the nominal exchange rate. Two will appear, two ways of adjustment will appear. Or what's already now, so workers can move and other salaries are variable, wages can be reduced. No form of compensation between Member States that have very different levels of competitiveness will be, so what I have warned in the individual debate people are mixing, means a fiscal union with the euro area. So it's not about us now entering the euro zone having some kind of mechanisms to overcome the differences and reach that convergence. It's just not like that. The fiscal Union would indeed be such a framework. So the European Monetary Union is a Union of solid money, and when capital accumulations are needed so that the labour price should be reduced and lower wages accepted, then things are always institutionally set to be the only option. Everything is aimed at liberalising the labour market as a single mechanism for adapting and ensuring competitiveness. As an example, we can cite Hartz's reforms, Biajjo's laws and amendments to the Labour Act in the Republic of Croatia which are now in order. All of the ranks are heading towards reducing labour prices and increasing pressure on the workers themselves. What remains is a completely irresponsible question that I asked Minister Maric why the Czech Republic and Poland did not enter the euro zone. Just to get an answer and an argument, I think he could use it to argue in his own favor to say so. But he didn't answer those questions. I think it's clear that these are the countries that have achieved the greatest convergence towards the most developed. So I'm talking about the parallel countries that have reached some convergence, and when we talk about the EU then we can never ignore Europe's two speeds where exactly the countries that are at second speed so cynicalally saying that European bureaucracy already calls us here remain in the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107354	Thank you. Mr. Boris Lalovac, the SDP representative club, is also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107355	Thank you very much. I'm glad today, however, this debate has been quite high quality regardless of which bench the debate came from, but there's only one regret left that last time I spoke, it's not that I'm criticizing the governor now that he's not here, but it's good to answer these questions that we may have an even more quality debate on these issues. The technical law is fine, congratulations to all those who have prepared it, I think that this technical part is now going and this is getting up, but the euro is talking, that's the story, that the European market or Europe wants to be a competitor in the world markets, that it wants to fight the biggest, that it wants to fight America, that it wants to fight China, that it wants to sell its products, that it wants to have full employment and that fragmented Europe for a long time, that we also see today's situation in Europe where war events didn't happen in China, that they didn't happen in the United States, that it happens in Europe, is that Europe's fragmented Europe has long been dragged back, long dragged back, they couldn't be competitive with the strongest. Croatia has also come a difficult way, it has passed in the 1990s, I am not only talking about war events but about economic events since hyperinflation has passed and it is that Croatian citizens have been involved they had to pay for it. They were passing interest rates, you remember in the 1990s in marks of 15%, someone made a lot of money on Croatian citizens. Long, 30-year-old financial system was all earned and that part, now we have a chance for the first time that we're integrated somewhere, that we can be part of something. And it's not just a question of us now whether we want to be a part of Europe, we all the time like that, so he's wondering if anyone else wants us in that best society. We ask today as if, so they are asked, means 19 Member States of Europe, the strongest European club someone asks them, so that the Croats and you will be with us, and you will be with us. So we need to feel someone on the other hand and the satisfaction that someone wants us somewhere, not to be constantly on some edges, marginal edges where easily, even our region, Croatia runs much faster than they do, much faster than BiH, much faster than Serbia, much faster than Montenegro. So believe me, their citizens want a better standard, they want to be admitted somewhere and they can travel freely, they have the same currency, they don't have transaction costs. We talk here all the time about tourism, Croatia waited for 30 years to earn something in tourism, but all the euros we made when we had to turn them into kunas someone was taking margins on them, someone had to make exchanges on exchange rates. All the time we've been saying that someone all the time we've had unfavourable conditions, all the time from interest rates and exchange rates, we want to travel, we want to be citizens of Europe, we want to be part of an elite club. 340 million people use the euro, on world markets, so Croatia is no longer just a matter of regional, small, local issue. Someone took us to the world club number one, no matter how much trouble he has, no matter how much trouble he has. And in my opinion, it won't be easy, it won't be easy, it won't be easy, but I think it's a recognition for Croatia too, to say someone, so look at you as a small country that is statistical for Europe, for the world in something we take you among the best, we receive you among the best where the best cars are produced in Europe, the best medicines are produced, we have the best education system, the best health system. I think that Croatia has these values, that we should strive and better be among the better because it will make us better, not always on some edge. And to me, this is today, regardless of what someone is going to say to this kind of historic opportunity to bring this bill to two-thirds, to make us more than two-thirds of the majority, because I think this is what our children will certainly like not to go to Ireland anymore to earn euros, rather than to have euro in Croatia, that we have a standard when we introduce this that we need to worry then we want a European standard, we want European wages, we want to participate in European values, not to go to Ireland to look for these European values. We have a chance, it's up to us to take advantage of it, but your opportunities are many countries and they don't have a chance, so they gave us a chance to congratulate you again on this extraordinary effort. And I think they'll feel it over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107356	And at the end of the day, Mr. Named Brumnic is in front of the Social Democrats Club, as well as final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107357	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would agree practically with everything my colleague Lalovec said, that's the syntagma I used very often for this pay phone, that's the United States of Europe. I really honestly believe that, and I hope that happens. You wouldn't agree with just the last part when you say people won't go to Ireland anymore for the euro they'll have them here. In order to have them here, we ourselves need to make the conditions that we have, and that's what I kind of respect the government for all the time, that's the part that doesn't work. That when HDZ comes out for this pay phone and tries to sell things to the ones they're not, when it says that this government has solved the covid problem, then it should be remembered how much money it has received from Europe to help us then, and then it turns out that virtually everything the government has given to Croatian citizens has been given from Europe. And that's why I say, it's good to be in that club. I want us to be at the best club, so a man can say we're positive with them, not go out there and pray. A colleague from HDZ said that someone here said that at another time, I was just saying in my speech, not that today is the best moment but was much earlier, so the sooner I get into that euro. That is true, only the problem is that what is our task, and that task whether you realize it or not as a party in power is seen through how many people have left Croatia, how many people leave Croatia and how many people do not come to Croatia. We're talking about having problems with workers, we're open, a real open market where anyone can come. I ask you how many people from less developed countries, and even those about whom a colleague of Lalovac is around us who would like to live better come to us and stay with us. That's what the problem is, that's what I'm talking about when I say whether the law is technically well written, it's written technically well. And I say I have one problem about it, about that interest, I didn't give the amendment because I literally don't know how to write it, and that you can accept it, but you figured out the first and third things. And the point isn't to let the citizens fight the banks. You needed banks, a man would say in some way agree to accept that conditions are the same for all. So I say this law should be supported because we really need to introduce the euro, the euro is good for this country. Are we ready? We will never be more ready because this Croatian economy for the last 30 years is getting weaker and weaker when you compare it with the rest of Europe. We're becoming more and more lagging behind. That means the sooner we get into the best club, the better. So here, I said in my first debate that I don't think the law is worth the paper it's written on because in fact through this law you don't protect the weakest ones. That's his problem. But if it is good to introduce the euro, it is also good to say that the Europe created at some common values should be built. It is one process that is already going on for 50, 60 years and I believe that it will take a long time and that Europe will ultimately be one of the better and better social let's say entities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107358	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Deposit Insurance System, first reading, P.Z.E. 269 with the whole first reading regulation including amendments until the end of the debate, without amendments until the end of the debate. ... If you need it, if you need it, you can. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you need a break? Okay, you can go. I'll pretend I don't see you. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this point, the provisions of first reading shall apply, there shall be no amendments. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Stipe County. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107409	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, you today have a draft Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance System Act. The key task of the deposit insurance system is to protect the depositors from the consequences of the failure of the credit institution and thus the loss of deposits due to the occurrence of the secured case. The framework for the functioning of the deposit insurance system in the EU has been established by the Deposit Insurance Systems Directive adopted in 2014 and transferred to the Republic of Croatia in that Deposit Insurance System Act. I would also remind you that the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency manages the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia and manages the deposit insurance fund. The amount the depositor has in the credit institution on the date of the security case up to 100,000 euros in kuna equivalent to the CNB average rate valid on the day of the security case. The Deposit Insurance System shall be financed by contributions paid by credit institutions to the Deposit Insurance Fund, members of the Deposit Insurance System, currently 23 in the Republic of Croatia. The available funds in the Deposit Insurance Fund on 31.12 last year amounted to 5.6 billion kuna and 2.5% of the amount of secured deposits. In September 2021, a letter of formal notice from the European Commission indicated that the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Systems Directive were not fully transposed into the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the European Commission has established that two articles have not been fully transposed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Deposit Insurance Systems Directive. The first remark of the European Commission refers to the Commissioner's account and the second to the treatment of premiums paid in the event that one credit institution ceases to be a member of the deposit insurance system in one Member State and joins the deposit insurance system in another Member State, which I will discuss further. So, two key areas in which the bill was supplemented are. The first is that the right of depositors to pay compensation for funds in the commissioner's account has been extended. The European Commission has stated that the property owners have the right to pay off secured deposits if they can identify them before the security case occurs, i.e. Even if they are not identified in a credit institution, and as long as I can prove my absolute right. Therefore, the draft law allows those persons, other than those identified in the credit institution, to exercise the right to secure deposits and depositors whose identity account holders can determine before the date of the non-availability of the deposit and who can prove their absolute right to the amounts in the account. The transfer of insurance premiums in case of change in the membership of credit institutions in the deposit insurance system is also more detailed. The proposed law provides for two cases in connection with the transfer of insurance premiums, and if the credit institution ceases to be a member of one deposit insurance system and access to another deposit insurance system, and if the credit institution transfers part of the activity to another Member State and those activities become subject to the deposit insurance system in another Member State. In both cases, the guarantee premium paid by that credit institution over 12 months preceding the transfer with the exception of extraordinary premiums shall be transferred to the deposit insurance system in another Member State in proportion to the amount of the deposits transferred. In the event of a planned change of membership in the deposit insurance system or transfer of part of the activity to another Member State, the credit institution shall inform the deposit insurance system which is a member at least six months before the change in membership or transfer of part of the activity. During a six-month period prior to the change in membership or the transfer of part of the activity to another Member State, the credit institution is still obliged to pay the premium or in case of an emergency premium for secured deposits, the deposit insurance system managed by the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. Finally, the draft law provides for infringement provisions for credit institutions that do not notify the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency and another deposit insurance system within at least six months before the change in membership or transfer of part of the activity to another Member State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107410	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107411	Here's just one quick question I forgot to ask on the board yesterday. We are going to change this law because we haven't implemented the directive until the end, how did it happen that we didn't end up applying it, and are we now, are we going to get some readbu again, you haven't applied it all the way or are we really done with the job properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107412	Thank you very much. Yes, you're right, we are going to amend the directive since we have received a letter of formal notice that we have not fully applied the two provisions of that directive. I would like to remind you that the last time we changed this law is if I am not mistaken at the end of 2020. When entering the banking union for the reasons of entry into the banking union and thereafter, a regular process of analysis of the European Commission as well as all the laws transposing the European Commission directives took place and found that we have not transposed those two provisions which we are doing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107413	Thank you very much, you have no more replicas and I'm giving you the right answer to that one from before. Here you go. Does anyone on the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mrs Vesna Vucilović The Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Named Brumnic Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107414	... Dear Vice President, respected ministry employees, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] This is about P.Z.E. when it should be simple and just take over, and then when you start reading this law, it really shouldn't be anything controversial that you don't start thinking about why someone noticed there's a problem here. I actually asked the board a question yesterday that I didn't finally get an answer that would explain why something wouldn't happen. The ministry gentleman has said two things change nicely, one is the Commissioner's account which is not disputed, and the other is a matter of transfer or termination of action by one member of the agency and moving to another agency for the insurance of savings deposits in another country, and even in the explanation mentioning those daughters' societies, etc., practically all of our banks are daughters of some of our queens and I don't seem to have written it by chance the first time, and then one of those queens or daughters' societies noticed that they were missing so that they would like to escape to their home countries and pass on secured savings roles there. And then I ask myself, how are we going to pay our citizens afterwards? There's talk of a transferred part of the activity, of the transferred deposits, of this, of that, I must admit, but I'd really like you to come out here for a pay phone and explain to me in which cases it will happen and how then we as a state will have jurisdiction over these deposits. I think that tomorrow Raiffeisen or any other bank in Zagreb sent to its clients a question whether they wanted "their money" tied to the Raiffeisen bank in Austria that 90% of clients would either not react or would agree with it as we just agreed to introduce the euro. But we don't ask ourselves how if anything happens after that, we're going to solve this problem. Today while it was under our jurisdiction, while the CNB granted approval to anyone acting in our space we had such control and we saw that the last time he was a problem with Sberbank it was I hope well solved, if nothing else was quickly solved or the citizens had no consequences. When you read this, no one in Europe has accidentally noticed that we have misapplyed it, and no one has sent us a warning that there are no interested people who want to take advantage of this opportunity, so I would ask you to just technically explain to us how it will work and how then we as a state, society, whatever we have jurisdiction over these call the daughters' societies, or these daughters' societies will end up as one of Raiffeisen's tenants. Here, thank you very much. I say, you really shouldn't have a problem with everything that comes with this PZE because it's kind of an acceptance of European practice, but really this time you'd like to get an explanation or an explanation of how it works and how much in fact these daughters expect to withdraw from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107415	You, too. Mr. Boris Lalovec in front of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107416	Thank you. There's actually a technical... With two articles that further increase the existing regulation, and thinks of this Commissioner account which will ultimately, if the real owner actually prove, prove the right to come to its own, and the other part of the transfer is when the existing banks are moo, they move from country to country, so today, and you will actually say it in the final part, I don't know today you have here Raiffeisen in Croatia, she has been paying some money in that fund, and tomorrow she decides to close up and move to another country, but let's not say that someone can come to Croatia too, so it's not now that they're leaving Croatia, but they can come to Croatia to get that part of the money actually paid to the country that this is the fact that this is the money of that financial institution is, is that they are, they are their money, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are paying it, but you are actually, in this context, they're going to be asked by this fellow colleague. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here is, here is one question that opens up, and recently enough has been current around Sberbank and there is once again shown what it means to be in the system, the financial system and the flows where you have one situation where overnight you have an attack on the bank in this context to save money and to actually take a very short period of time through a number of instruments, which are, one of the instruments is actually this Deposit Insurance Act, that this very quickly such external shock is stabilised and that no further risks or panics occur on the market. And then you had other meanings it didn't go quite this way all they saw was actually an attack on Sberbank, but very quickly it actually stabilized it, but what was much more dangerous, and, and not so much communicated through the public, and now it can actually be communicated was actually the exposure of European banks to the Russian market and with the fact that these banks will literally run out of money there in Russia, is it, so it was talking about Unicredit, Raiffeisen etc., etc. in those banks. Then the question was whether such a scenario could be shed on Europe, and ultimately what we are interested in here is whether it can be transferred to Croatia is, it was in our interest to be honest that it was not easy for a number of people who were saving, they had money in those banks because they were exposed in Russia. No one's comfortable watching it, so there's some kind of a billion in Russia, so they'll lose it there, so what's the first thing they'll do if they lose some money there, right, so of course the withdrawal from smaller countries to their country would be Italy, Austria, etc. And then, actually, it was us who were more vulnerable in the edges, that domino effect, yes. It is the legal regulation of Europe or the single banking union, and this deposit insurance system has actually protected Croatian citizens from happening, that we remain and legally that we can get to our money or that, to create these particular mechanisms, let us not forget that it is a recent CNB statements, in fact it has passed almost no radar, Croatian citizens have been in my mind in the last month, almost two billion kunas have withdrawn. It's a report by the CNB that, no, it's not anybody's commenting on it, nobody's saying it this way, and that's what I mean from those big banks, right? People were crowding by the ATMs, and they were simply raising money because they were blowing up because they were afraid of what was going to happen there, right? But you know what this part is, and now the euro is back on, because the citizens have raised the euro, but what is the mechanism, I've been communicating with the governor, what happens when you have such, simply citizens go, they believe they'll have the euro in their own, at home than keep it in the financial institution, but you see that one, one madness has prevailed. What will happen when, if we can't have all the information that, yes, to save the entire banking sector from so much security money and exactly him, he calmed me down with the information that no matter how many Croatian citizens withdraw euro from the ATM that the European Central Bank directly introduces euro into these banks, the second it calms down, it means no matter how many euros you will withdraw we will pay you back. Imagine what a psychological effect it is for citizens to calm down, and I'm asking you now can the CNB say that about the kuna? I'm asking you straight. Can the CNB say that Croats who are all going to withdraw kunas from banks today do the CNB have enough kuna to pay all Croatian citizens? One technical question in this section. Yeah, but I don't know. And in this part, we felt that the European Central Bank has a much wider defence mechanism not only saves in Croatia, but there have been incredible attacks on savings in Austria and in many other European countries. It's stabilized, it's not a small loss of banks in Russia, but it's still stabilized. And because of that, this was also a test and a banking union, it was a test and a deposit insurance system such as the one that happened in Ukraine and the exposure of European banks to that, according to exposure. Because it was not pleasant to see the Croatian citizens who simply brought them in, they had to put trucks in. People told me off the road so they tell me what's going on there, there's always some people gathering, it's no one, and it's a good thing they didn't pass on. But they just got as much as they wanted to get that part. It's calmed down, calmed down, and that's Europe's good, that's good. It's the dam of every one of us saving with laws like this. Because we can't say that we have limited instruments and everything we want to say because we're integrated and because of that and the banking sector as important as it seems to have learned his 2008 lesson. The important thing is that it can react to these crises, but let's not forget it's not a little bit 2 billion kunas that suddenly someone pulls. You must be ready to be at that moment to be able to answer not what you come in a month. Because imagine when you tell someone to come by for your money in two months. So what does he think? Well, what's he gonna think, so look, he won't give me my money. Yeah? So what month? He's calling a friend right now. It's spreading like fire and that's good. I must admit that at that moment I'm the governor, he says as much as they ask for the euro will be, however much. I was also asked by the citizens what to do. Don't pull the money. You know why you don't pull the money? Because that money while it's in your bank accounts, it's secure, you have 100,000 euros. You know the money you have at home, God forbid someone comes to you, both of you, is not provided. You've lost everything, so let's not run into panic, because someone's trying to spread panic. It wasn't pleasant, I said so what do people do? Yeah? Put the money back in financial institutions. It's not pleasant to keep him home. Who keeps the money that much money at home, because unfortunately you have the other side of the story. But it's not pleasant to look like money is lost somewhere. And that's why I think the financial institutions' reactions were good, it was a good reaction to Sberbank. And the first test as much as he wasn't comfortable he passed, calmed down the situation on the banking market, and in the end, as much as anyone didn't believe that these laws were good he had doubts about it. Here are practical examples of why a good law is in the deposit insurance system. Now it's shown up in this whole thing. And why is it good that we had enough euros? Do you think in the end that all Croatian citizens would have had so many euros to withdraw. Imagine, and Croatian citizens are mostly saving in euro. Would we have so many euros to withdraw? I wouldn't, but you had a direct line... who pushed as many euros as you have, you'll get euro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The panic with calmed down and everything worked out, so regardless of all these situations Europe is on a number of tests. There will be further testing, but with our specific tasks to question it, let's ask, let's look. But yes, and when some concrete benefits are seen, then let's confess them. That's good, and it might be better. But we were much worse off when many Croatian citizens couldn't reach their savings and we remember for 30 years they couldn't get their money, and they advocated some other systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107417	Ms. Mariana Puljak, Center and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107418	Thank you. Here's an esteemed colleague and colleague, always behind fellow Lalovac he makes it very simple to explain these financial matters in a simple way. I think it's very clear to the citizens whether it's some of these complex topics that are actually about what happens after a colleague tells it. I didn't really want much about this law itself, but I'm saying I asked in the replica whether we're sure now that we've really transposed everything from the directive, we haven't forgotten anything, because it makes us change the law now because we've forgotten something or we haven't applied it properly. From this directive, therefore, these two articles are now being corrected and we are amending the law to comply with the European Directive. And now I just wanted to actually tell the citizens of some things if it's what the deposit insurance system is. And here's most of it, and my colleague Lalovec said, because it kind of seems to me that these financial things may not be quite clear to the citizens, and it's always talking about some kind of, I don't know, banking lobby and I don't know what. And better yet, I don't know how to keep it in my sock or in my mattress. We will now see when the euro is going to change if the mattresses are going to shoot all over Croatia and these bills are finally being replaced for the euro. But here's the deposit insurance system, so now it's very simple to explain on the Croatian National Bank page, so it's a system that allows the depositors to protect against the loss of deposits in the event of any occurrence of any case that is secured. So it's about keeping the trust of people who deposit their money in credit institutions, and it's actually a contribution to the stability of the entire financial system. The entire system is managed by the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. It is a body which has the power and implements the procedures laid down in the Deposit Insurance System Act, so when the CNB adopts a decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit or when the competent court adopts a decision on the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against the credit institution, the Agency shall assume the obligation to pay compensation to the depositors. Deposits of natural persons, companies, non-profit institutions and even units of local and regional self-government whose budget for the previous year amounted to a maximum of 3 million kunas in banks, or in credit institutions that were granted from the CNB. Now the secured amount the depositor has in the credit institution to perform, and in the event of a maximum of 100,000 euros, here yesterday we spoke on the board, 100,000 euros in anti-cunic value while we are still in kuna, that these are actually among the highest amounts secured in the EU. The depositor is the depositor or, in the case of a joint account, all those entitled to that account are actually depositors, and the deposit in this context is all the financial assets remaining in the bank accounts, so current, gyro accounts, savings accounts, but at the time of the security case. This case shall take place or be declared when the CNB adopts a decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit, which then determines that the bank cannot or will not be able to pay the deposits due to its financial situation soon or when the competent court makes a decision to open a bankruptcy proceedings against the bank or credit institution. All credit institutions authorised by the CNB for the work and branches of those institutions in another Member State shall be obliged to enter into the deposit insurance system of the Agency, and that insurance system shall be financed from the available financial resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The framework for the functioning of the deposit insurance system in the EU is therefore defined by this EU Parliament directive, it was implemented in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia through the Deposit Insurance Act, which entered into force in July 2015. in force, but was then replaced in 2021. The deposit insurance system law. Now it is in September after the law is implemented here I say we have received a notice from the European Commission that we have not implemented it until the end and that is why we are going to change and supplement this law. So here's the only thing I wanted to say is to say one of the benefits and participations in all these European integrations, as my colleague Lalovac said, we're sure that our money is safe and much safer than it is in stockings and mattresses, much safer in banks and financial institutions precisely because they're insured. If anything happens, your money is secured, so there's no fear of losing it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107419	You, too. Mr. Anton Kleman Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107420	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard from the Secretary of State and from my predecessors, it is therefore a technical amendment to the law itself which has already been passed where, on the basis of the European Commission’s observations, two articles have been amended or two articles of the Law which define the right of the depositor to pay compensation for funds in a trust account and this second is about identifying in a credit institution. So, what we've already heard is that I would say exhaustively and in some ways professionally and from my colleague Lalovac that it's good to have a law like this, that it's good to add these two more articles, I would say here and my colleague Brumnic has put this issue on our board and what happens when a credit institution moves to another country in all EU countries is a single protection of 100,000 per deposit. That's definitely it. ... How? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107421	No, please, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107422	And if they move to another institution from that credit institution, the funds are secured, so from another country the funds in our system are secured. So that's clearly said on the last board, and it seems to me that it is, is that, if we understand each other well, there is no place of uncertainty, but in any case it is good to clarify it for the sake of the citizens if there is some kind of misunderstanding. So, what's important to say is that we got what I said before and before those two deposit insurance systems directives where we had to supplement those two articles that are related to the depositor's right to pay compensation for funds in the Commissioner's account and the European Commission has stated that the right to pay off the secured deposit have real assets that can be identified before the insurance case comes forward. So, even if they didn't identify in a credit institution, and as long as I can prove my absolute right. In particular, the Deposit Insurance Systems Directive does not require the account owner to immediately notify the credit institution of the records of the real owners of the assets in its account because the right to provide the deposit is not dependent on the identification of the account owners to the credit institutions. The following had to be amended by the applicable Deposit Insurance System Act, which would have been prescribed, provided that, in the case of a explicitly agreed depositary account, the account of the other person, i.e. the Commissioner's account, the founding of the right to compensation is determined in the light of the person whose account is held by a trust account provided that the credit institution has entrusted and established the identity of the parties and the real owner prior to the date of the security case. Therefore, the proposal for a law provides for the exercise of the right to provide deposit insurance to depositors whose identity account holders can determine before the date of the non-availability of the deposit and which can prove their absolute right to the amounts in the account, not solely to persons identified in the credit institution as it has been so far. Therefore, this amendment allows for the extension of the right to compensation i.e. the payment of the secured deposit and of the persons whose account is held by a trust account that is not identified in a credit institution, but their identity has nevertheless been established prior to the occurrence of the secured case. The draft law provides for two cases where the transfer of premiums paid to the deposit insurance system is possible. The first refers to the case where the credit institution ceases to be a member of one deposit insurance system and accesss another deposit insurance system. Others to the situation in which a credit institution transfers part of its business activities to another Member State, and these activities become the subject of a deposit insurance system in another Member State. In both cases, the collateral premiums paid by that credit institution over 12 months preceding the transfer or modification of membership in the deposit insurance system shall also be transferred to the second deposit insurance system and shall be the ratio of the amount of the secured deposits to be transferred. Only regular premiums shall be transferred until exceptional premiums are subject to transfer to another deposit insurance system. In the case of planning to change membership in the deposit insurance system or transfer part of the activity to another Member State, the credit institution shall inform the deposit insurance system which is a member at least 6 months before the change in the relationship of the transfer of part of the activity. During a period of 6 months prior to the change in membership or the transfer of part of the activity to another Member State, the credit institution shall continue to pay the premium or in case of an emergency deposit guarantee premium in the deposit insurance system managed by the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. This proposal also provides for infringement provisions for credit institutions which do not notify HANFU and other deposit insurance systems within a minimum period of 6 months prior to the change in membership or transfer of part of the activity to another Member State. It should therefore be pointed out that the Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance Systems is further aligned with the acquis more accurately with the Deposit Insurance System Directive, and in accordance with the observations submitted by the European Commission. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107423	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar, Department of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107424	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, I am not so economically educated, the only thing I can show right now is the mass of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance System Act when you take it out of almost 80 pages of a big document that we all get here in general is this, here, thank you, one, double-printed page and there is in principle nothing questionable on it because when we talk about the deposit insurance system then dear citizens are primarily talking about how the state is concerned that the money that you are, and if you were able to save on your bank account, and then the state tells you, among other things and through this law, without worry, do not worry about how the problem with the banking institution is being said here or at home if you said that some bank would save your money in that bank will be protected. But let's just go one more time just so my grandmother can say this or you can say it from the beginning. What is a credit institution? We ordinary Croats would say bank. So the bank does what? The bank deals with the availability of your money and it uses that money as a commodity, it fertilises that money in the market with certain processes, certain procedures dealing with the banking financial sector, pardon, and thus the bank earns money. We have heard today from both the respected representative of Lalovec and many, and we know from experience that not a single bank in the world can pay off all its savings the next day. There is no such financial institution. It's simply why my dear people are because the bank with your money is doing something else. She takes it and borrows it. Of course, it earns interest or certain financial interests and, in fact, there is a profit margin of one financial institution or bank. But sometimes this bank does a bad job and then has to tell its savings money is gone. Fortunately here is why this law is in line with European practice or with one of the new European... where it's said, okay, the deposit keeps an account in his name for another blah, blah, blah, blah, it's all absolutely undeniable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here we all need to see, of course, we are the European Union, a country that lives and works and exists within that economic system. Croatian banks, if there are still those that are owned by any EU company, are allowed to transfer the deposit insurance system to another country or country, but the issue that is here and respected is raised, the distinguished representative Brumnic would ask, which, which would be motives for them to do so, which is the purpose of changing the financial institution that will take care of the protection of deposits, we do not know for ourselves. I must confess to myself personally repeating as a financially poorly-informed representative these motives are not clear so far. What's the point I don't know? When we remember those moments from the beginning of the Croatian state, and immediately before we create, we know how many problems were with the Ljubljanska banka, we later had and witnessed bankruptcy, that is, we can freely say it to the collapse of a number of financial institutions from savings to serious banks, but all of them are somehow either shut down or exist today. The fact is what I would like to point out once again in this debate, my dear citizens tell us all to keep money in financial institutions, it is doubtless so with these legal changes on these two lists, or on a list of mutually printed papers we tell you as Parliamentarians fine. But again, I'm telling you, the banks are not involved in humanitarian activity. No financial institution is Caritas, and no financial institution is a humanitarian association. Banks deal with making money, and that's their basic job. And don't be angry when you'll hear in a few seconds that banks in Croatia take more than three hundred million kunas on behalf of various fees only annually. It is only one of the estimates of how much money the banking system actually draws from the pockets of your Croatian citizens. You all know when you came to open the account you already had a bit of a debt, they already took 20, 30, 50 kuna depending on which package you chose, so you will be able to choose e-banking, banking m-banking. All this absolutely stands and facilitates man's financial business in today's fast world, but once again I remind the bank is primarily an institution that deals with making money for itself. In principle, the bank only needs your money to use it as a commodity on the market. And who doesn't know it and who doesn't know it is in one great error. We will in principle absolutely look at this law and see nothing wrong with it. Absolutely on all these items, and there are four articles of God with a final decree even 5. And there you go. Okay. we will support this because the financial stability of the pockets of Croatian citizens is not only in the Homeland Movement but I am also sure that all parties in Croatia are first in line. And to end, of course, it is also the custom to finish one address, and yet to receive a certain note of entertainment we expect soon also a new Vice-Governor of the Croatian National Bank that will definitely solve all the problems of the financial sector. Here's what I'm going to do at the end to get some financial benefits out of this debate for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107425	Mr. Dretar, except for the sperm bank, she's a little humanitarian. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107426	Comrade Dretar, if you took that water from the bank then you'll have to pay the interest back, not just pay. Maybe you screwed up. But, well, I'm going to go to a ton of what you've actually started with when we get these kind of amendments and the addition of the law, then it all comes down to the fact that it's about professional laws where the laymen have nothing to ask for too much. It is most often about this famous alignment with European directives and who could say what at all if it is not an iber financial expert. However, MPs and MPs are not here to be experts and to be able to discuss at expert level, but to defend the working majority on which all decisions will be made sooner or later. Therefore, when these laws come, amendments and additions to laws that are related only to harmonisation, in a segment of financial institutions where the most common thing is that legal proposals assure us that all deposits are absolutely protected and that unlike all previous crises in capitalist cycles that come as we know regularly and cyclically this current phase brings new so-called. regulatory mechanisms and with these new regulatory mechanisms, all deposits, all investment institutions, all of them, and individual means of saving, will now be absolutely protected. However, I would warn, and I would like what my colleague Brumnic has actually put here to talk to us a little bit, and to explain this situation to us, meaning transfer, premium insurance, insurance in case of transfer of membership of credit institutions, the deposit insurance system of another country. It means, in fact, that we are concerned and why this amendment and supplement is brought if we have a situation where the credit institution ceases to be a member of one deposit insurance system and joins another deposit insurance system. Why does it matter to us, or what it means to those who are watching this, who are asking themselves well, so when the insurance transfer goes, there are certain mechanisms that have already provided it. All right. What I would like to warn here every time new regulatory mechanisms are brought that promise to be truly safe, I would just say that even in the criticism of those MPs who say best to you is still the money you put in the bank, don't keep them in your stocking, so that perhaps those who lost their deposits in the crisis in 2008, nine years or those who remember, and even those who mean 1997-98. And the rehabilitated banking system that we've resuscitated with our money and this big money with $56 billion of public money and then sold it to foreigners for four times the amount, I think, and then the argument was now going to work itself out, now it's going to be better, so let's be a little skeptical. We've received these capital market laws and guarantee fund laws here too many times, let's say that's a specificity, always where we're said to be safe and there won't be a problem, that's one of the safest ways of investment. I say 2009. People who lost their investment would disagree with that, 2016. Let's say a new version has been introduced... This is usually the third version of one type of insurance where it is always stated that it is more secure for investors, so-called investors. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] as well as telling less exposure to risks, but not only does it not neutralise the crisis but it only gives legislation and I will only end up there, and in this case let it explain to us, not only does it not neutralize the crisis but it only gives legitimacy to the completely insecure and crisis-friendly system, and we should be as representatives of any of these financial proposals that come in and out of the way because, as we're not professional, we approach it with this very argument that it's actually a legitimateization of an absolutely insecure and crisis-friendly system and that we should always ask questions about who will be responsible for the lost funds if there's even a question in this system whether anyone can answer and whether this system is even set up so that someone can answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a little skepticic of this absolutely secure system that has all the new deposit insurance mechanisms I'd like this to answer means this question to my colleagues Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107427	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Sacic's individual debate. He's gone. Mr. Marijan Pavliček's individual debate. He's gone. And finally, Mr. Joseph Begonja ends up on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107428	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now not to repeat everything that has been said, and it has been said enough by both the proposings and by fellow MPs and MPs, I will only remind you that we are at the end of 2020. adopt a package of laws relating to financial institutions, the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions, the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions and the Law on the Deposit Insurance System, which we have taken over Directive 49 of 2014. on deposit insurance systems, which we have named among other things the current state-owned Deposit Insurance Agency and the resolution of banks in the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, which has not only been renamed but has also been given a second role, the role of the Sanjay Body, which is responsible for the management of the Sanjay Fund, which has its two, general and special parts. What is today is the subject of our debate is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Deposit Insurance System is related to the European Commission's position last September on the incomplete transposition of that Directive into our legislative framework. It shall be harmonised in two areas, the first question of depositors with absolute right of account amounts, and in the area of transfer of the premium of insurance in case of change of membership of credit institutions in the deposit insurance system and that not one of my predecessors who will speak here under what conditions, when and how and in what cases, it is also pointed out that in the case of a planned change of membership in the deposit insurance system or transfer of part of the activity to another Member State, the credit institution is obliged to notify the deposit insurance system at least 6 months before the change of membership or transfer of part of the activity. Finally, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Insurance System Act aims to raise the level of legal certainty of our citizens and entrepreneurs, increase trust in the financial system, and the HDZ Representatives' Club will, as counterpart Klim said, support this government's proposal for the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107429	We have another final debate. Marianne Puljak in front of the Centre and Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107430	Here's the final answer, I didn't have any other chance of answering this colleague who, Peović, who said that we're talking about an absolutely secure system here, it's all secure, etc., so I don't think either of us can ever tell that going to one system is absolutely safe and that when you put money in the bank that there's no way to fail etc., it's a matter, so we're talking about risks and the question is that maybe it's safer to put it in the bank or put it in socks, and all those people who had money in the sock or in the mattress or I don't know in some box or where they're already holding it all over the house, when it's robbed, they must think so I could have kept it in the bank, it's the same thing, is that way. So, you were comparing it with that 2008 crisis or that when the money was lost in the banks, but here's when the man was robbed then you said what I was stupid, and I didn't put the money somewhere else, so it's all a matter of risk assessment. Here is a legislative framework for the system to be as secure as possible, for deposits to be secured as much as possible, etc., but no one is absolutely saying that they are absolutely secure and that there will be some of these losses in the event of some extraordinary, extraordinary situation. That's all I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107431	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when... And I didn't see that Mrs. Katarina Peovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. By the time Mrs. Peovic gets here, my reading says what I told you. Here you go. And what it says is what I say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107432	Yes, he can't, he can't call the chairman, it's true. And if my colleague Puljak, I don't know, we might be calling you all the time to answer the key question, so I'm going to step up the same pressure to answer our question to my colleagues, I hope you'll give in to that pressure, but maybe we can answer what my colleague Puljak has asked us about risk assessments. I mean, I'm not sure Mariana that there are risk assessments that would say how many people who kept the money in the stocking have lost money, and how many people who kept it in the bank, I think maybe financial experts have that data, but in any case they wouldn't smoke at the bookies if they weren't more insecure in the bank. But what I'm saying is, so we have security roles up to 700,000 kunas and when we say and now the HDZ representative said this is an increase in security, this is another added meaning all these laws he's finely listed you've had a chance to hear, so what we've recently voted on, other than this is the Guarantee Fund Act, on various these were various financial laws that I'm not now repeating, what was always in that argument is present is an increase in the security of roles, deposits, savings. But I'd just mention I'll take this opportunity to warn you of something that every time I warn about laws like this, and that's what the Deposit Insurance Agency is mentioned here. So we are talking about the security of absolute security and the institutions that care about it, and the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency is one in itself, I would say a really interesting example of the conflict of interest or corruption in the agency itself where we have a director, Maria Hrebac, who has been at the head of the agency since 2012. where it was appointed by the SDP government for a term of four years. It's pretty amazing that someone's running the agency until recently even with an expired mandate even out of meaning even to this day, this is probably the third term if I count correctly. By the way, Marija HRebac was punished for conflict of interest due to incompatible functions of the member of the Croatian Bank and Sunny Hvar supervisory board in the Supervisory Board of Sunny Hvar, the Group that conducted the arbitration proceedings against the Government of the Republic of Croatia for damages to the Supervisory Board was appointed as Director of the State Agency until it was forced to resign after the conflict of interest was established. Otherwise, we keep getting word from the former employees of the agency, and we also asked Plenkovic. Here I am using an opportunity related to this law that will convince us that compliance with European directives is, etc. to once again warn this agency and that director who absolutely does not trust what will convince us here that it is safe, which is that, by the way and indirectly, Croatian institutions are provided and the implementation of financial laws or laws that have connections and which are related to the financial sector. Here's even an agency that's been working absolutely irregularly for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107433	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met and when they will be heard, when you will hear for sure, and all your suggestions and suggestions will be taken into account... What did I hurt my rules of procedure with? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107434	The Honorable Chairman has injured you No, you didn't hurt your ankle. Paragraphs 33 and 18 of the 5th and not calling on the Proposer to answer the questions of the MP and take the final word. [[Intruder Radin: By knowing that there will be no sanctions, and so we are at the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107435	Thank you very much. You don't. What? [[Intruder Brumnić: So read what is owed to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107436	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107437	No, don't read, no, not when we're already here we have I've planned somewhere until 6:00 to be done, read this sentence again, read this sentence again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107438	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-05-0.u107439	Mr. Brumnic, for patriotic reasons, can't do it okay. Tomorrow morning, wait, wait, tomorrow morning we continue at 9.30 with the proposal for a decision to disband HS, a group of parties, and I can't wait to hear the reasons why we want to go to elections so quickly tomorrow morning. Here you go. Get some rest. I hope you took a picture of... what you'd call a vacuum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The session was interrupted at 5:53 p.m.
