ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u102916	Next is the presentation of the position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u102917	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers, especially my dear friends with disabilities. Here we are today, representatives of the Croatian Parliament will vote on the rebalancing of the state budget which is extremely important and would say especially important this time for a category of people with disabilities. In the rebalancing process, we provided a new 15 million kuna for the spin center or centre for people with spinal cord injury. The centre I hope here is that we will soon open it, it is near the end and therefore still needs to be arranged and, of course, by the end of what needs to be done, somewhere I believe at the end of next year or early in 2024 that the centre will be able to open and that the centre will be able to receive its first users. Today, in all possible efforts by people in Varazdinske Toplice who work, it is not possible to provide the most pathetic care for people who suffer from a car accident or fall from some height or in any other way damage to the spinal cord. By building this centre, the government of the Republic of Croatia allows people who experience such a serious injury that they may return to life in a better and better way. On this occasion, I would really like to thank the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, for having heard so much about this centre and for the government yesterday accepting the amendment of fellow Yankees and mine that we have given together to ensure 15 million kuna for this category of persons with disabilities. Likewise today, we will also pass the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities. This is an extremely important law for all people with disabilities. Not only because in one place we will have one quality way I would say listed all persons with disabilities but also because they will finally be able to obtain a certificate that will exercise rights in all systems and which will be able to prove their status as disabled persons. For this to be possible, I have tabled an amendment to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities and for this I thank the Minister of Health and the President of the Government who accepted my amendment because they saw that the law on my amendment will be improved and that we will get exactly what we have long, long, long I will say for a long time, more than 20 we wait and what they advocate for people with disabilities of art in one place and all data in one place. And to finally be able to say in Croatia, here now people with disabilities can achieve their status and for this I can obtain confirmation and in all systems prove that people with disabilities are not walking from door to door and trying to prove it to different documents. Once again here in this way the government has proved to be truly a partner to people with disabilities, that's what we wanted, that's what we've all been for years. We're expecting it, and here today we'll finally be able to have it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103010	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the respected Dalia Orekskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103011	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here today I will talk about one subject purely as a counterweight or as an attempt to balance even after this speaker with all those words of praise which usually starts with a sentence from HDZ, this government of Andrej Plenkovic has provided funds and three dots, so such words are unnecessaryly creating a completely false picture of real reality in the Republic of Croatia, and the goal of such speeches by HDZ is just to buy social peace and to ensure and strengthen the stability of the chair of the ruling majority. So I'm going to talk about something else entirely. So most citizens who try to achieve their rights in courts very often face a brutal reality that reveals that this real picture of Croatia is completely different from the picture that is imagined and described in the letter of the constitution and the law. Croatia, which they live, is very false and hypocritical, so first of all, I want to send a message to everyone who fights for their justice somewhere in front of Croatian courts not to dry up, not to be discouraged because each of their victories is worth dry gold to all of us. Among those who made it through this personal battle, Ivo Šegota and Mladen Kozic and I congratulate them this time. Congratulations also to the High Administrative Court on the correct decision based on which life partners can adopt children. Finally, a message has been sent to this verdict by the High Administrative Court that the state should primarily take care of the welfare of children and give each child the opportunity to have his own home, his family who cares for them, and who loves them. I believe these life partners will be able to give them that, and I wish them a lot of success and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103012	Here's what we've exhausted from taking a stand. Now I'm setting a break until 12:00 p.m. when there's going to be a vote. It's 10.34 p.m. Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103158	Dear Vice President of the HS, Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are under the rise of prices. Inflation has been the biggest in the last 14, 15 years, and prices are really going up. We all know at the end that we are paying for that ordinary bottle of gas for the domestic need as much as it has grown, the fuel depends on what kind of 15 kunas and we keep at the Mosto Club that since the budget is also filled with goods through VAT and excise duties that the government can show much greater sensitivity to at least citizens who are on the edge of poverty and to our pensioners. But even before this crisis, Croatian families were exposed to incredibly high real estate prices. The priority of each family to resolve the housing issue and that housing issue is a key question, I would say a demographic question, therefore, for the survival of our people. The housing issue is also a problem in my Rijeka, Pula, in the Croatian capital, in Split, wherever we touch, we have a big problem with housing. With salaries such as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we come to the fact that it is almost impossible for a young family or a new family to come and buy their property somewhere. For this reason, I have made legal changes with the team of experts on real estate tax which I have proposed to abolish real estate tax when buying the first real estate. This burden is 3% which, for example, amounts to. Of the million kuna makes it easier for our families to purchase a property of 30,000. This is not a small amount and this is certainly a burden that, if the government decides to abolish or resolve, it will help address this problem of purchase of residential property. I think the government must be more focused on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on our young families, and on the one hand we have a big problem of corruption for which we lose 60 billion kuna per year according to estimates, we have therefore a corrupt click, and on the other hand we have an incompetent extreme left hand which, I don't know, deals with people who menstruate by coloring certain benches, and from the capital of the Republic of Croatia, they made the capital of garbage. And the Mostu family, and we know that not only the Bridge, but here I am now speaking here on behalf of the Mosta Club is a fundamental issue and a fundamental issue of all our policies. So the family is a nucleus of society and all of our policies when we take responsibility for the leadership of the state will be directed towards the needs of Croatian families. This is only one of the moves that we propose and we believe can facilitate the lives of Croatian citizens and resolve the housing issue. Its own property is a prerequisite for establishing a family, a normal life, and then how I said to use an aorist, when we take responsibility for what we are fully convinced of, then Croatian families, children and young people will be at the heart and in every focus of us who will then have greater responsibility for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103428	As I announced this morning, we will now begin with the presentation of the position, the first presentation of the position on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will have a respected representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u103429	Good afternoon, everyone, here's after a shorter break due to my illness, and here's my new review of the week. The project Srebrnjak is connected to the apparatus, but the very principled coalition Fuchs-Tomasevic is seriously working on excluding the device and leaving the patient of the Centre for Translation Medicine to a slow and sad death. EU coins have been a major bait since the late mayor of Zagreb, but neither has the new mayor, nor has Minister Fuchs shown a desire to give up control of the sum, so if they can't, they won't give up a third. Thanks to the traditional desire of our politicians to get involved in everything from better conditions for the treatment of our children one big nothing, as will probably also show a report for which Mayor Tomašević of the City Assembly received 30 days yesterday, we are looking forward to. Similarly, nothing is happening at the Ministry of Health, which we know is officially the worst in withdrawing money from European projects. As an implementing body, the Ministry of Health signed 52 contracts worth as much as 2.3 billion kuna, so far there has been a request for payment of the incredible 5.5 million kuna and 0.5%, and a very modest 1.9 million kuna or less than 0.2%, as that Gordo sounds. On Wednesday, here in the meeting, Minister Paladin presented on the board a renewal report, so we found again that flowers have flourished in the business, although we have not heard the answers to the questions that construction companies and with which workers will even participate in reconstruction projects. The minister showed us a plan to speed up the reconstruction process, but refused to present it as if it were the most secret document at least printed on torin canvas. In July, another regular harmonisation of pension levels that could average increase by some 100 and 70 kuna, which, let's face it, is really not a great help to our pensioners in overcoming higher and higher price barriers. The government assures us that our pensions will be bigger if we work longer, but they are denied their own data. In 2022 to this day, we received slightly less than 10,000 new pensioners, their pension was paid for the first time, and at an average amount of £2,701, the new pensioners worked on average 31, but as we can see for a smaller pension, so if you're working longer, you expect a pension of 3 hundreds lower than the average, really our rulings tell us to spend the best years in the workplace. As early as February of this year, the prime minister presented us with a package of measures to ease price growth, both energy and basic living foods nearly 5 billion kunas were meant to calm the nation. The VAT cuts have been announced to almost everything. It was meant to stop the decline of the standards of Croatian citizens, but the standard of Croatian citizens not only did not stop falling but bought a ticket to the bungalow jumping. Prices don't listen to the prime minister continue to rise. The edible oils from 10 kuna are picked up at 18, which is my brothers 80%. Potato is more expensive for a third. Milk products on average for half. If you pour fuel to the top at the gas station, it is likely that a kind employee will ask you to be his godfather. Another interesting topic this week. Monkey goddesses. According to Dr. Markotic, they usually appear in men who have had relations with other men. I suppose the Honorable Director of the Infectious Diseases Clinic here thinks of very intense relations between two men so you don't have to be afraid of card games with friends or bottles. So people who play cards or people who bottle are not in direct danger from people who are intensely interrelational, although walking people can get monkey goddesses from people who share it. This virus could also be picked up by people who menstruate, people who don't menstruate, people who educate, people who educate, people who recruit, people who I know panic, people who culture and many others, many other kinds of people. And here's something else for the weekend. The SDP's initiative to return to Zagreb's Marshall Tito Square, which explains that Comrade Joza is a tourist brand and will attract tourists. When and if this happens, I certainly propose to the newly appointed director of the Zagreb Tourist Board, to include in the tour of the metropolis a visit to the Prudences in the Brdovac municipality very close to Zagreb, where last Tuesday the remains of 133 victims of post-war terror are buried, and no one knows how many more there are in nearby caves and sites. If SDP's brand is violent, unfair and cruel, they have indeed chosen an extraordinary model.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u108850	We are now going to the final vote of the elections, appointments and resolutions, so we will split into two parts, first we will vote if you agree, of course, on the appointment of Tomislav Ćorić as deputy governor of the CNB, and then we will hold a united vote on the remaining 3 points concerning our committees. Thank you very much. Then we're going to vote for the decision to appoint Tomislav Coric as deputy governor of the CNB, please vote. 117 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 41 against, so the decision was made as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs and Mr. Ćorić we want a lot of success in the conduct of the new duty of Vice Governor of the CNB. Secondly, I propose, we have already agreed to hold a united vote on the remaining 3 points proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, so I am voting on the proposal and three points, please vote. 112 MPs and MPs voted, 111 for and one abstention, so we made a decision as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Thank you very much, we continue on Wednesday 1st June at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education. SESSION Interrupted at 13:11 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] Before we start just to let you know that Andro Krstulović Opera is at home, Covid has, we want as much as the last time a colleague of Totgergeli to get better, but given the clothes, I know what he expects me to congratulate him, so congratulations to Hajduk on the winning cup. But so did Dinam at the winning championship. [[Applause.]] Nothing, let's go, let's move on. [[Applause.]] Calm down. Please let's go with the work. First Proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projection for 2023 and 2024. In addition to the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for '23. And '24. The proposals were also submitted for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2022 and projection of the '23 plans. And '24. year with reason for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Restructure and Sale, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, Croatian Travel Transport and HZ Infrastructure. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. We're going to have to vote now on the amendments, the review was sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement in various sessions, so we will vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. But before that, we have requests for a break, the first is a colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110761	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club ahead of the start of the vote on amendments to the budget rebalancing. We have referred as the MOST Club a series of amendments, most of all of the entire opposition, and these amendments have turned to concrete assistance to our citizens, to their existential problems, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rejected all these amendments. I, too, call on MPs on my right, therefore, to the left opposition, but also representatives of the ruling majority to support these amendments. We propose an increase in funds to fight corruption. We know how much we lose a year because of corruption. This corrupt click on authorities full of their own pockets while the extreme left in Zagreb deals with benches and changing human nature, no one deals with key existential problems. We want to change these amendments and among these amendments is one amendment concerning the increase in financial compensation for parents who care for children with developmental difficulties. Gentlemen from We can't seem to matter to you children with developmental difficulties where we're looking for an increase from 2,300 kuna to 4,000 kuna. I urge you to listen to what we propose and vote for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110762	The apartment is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110763	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes to explain and put emphasis on a very important dimension of the budget, but not this populist way. Of course, we have also submitted amendments, but by looking at the budget, it is realistically possible within what the HDZ has given itself as possible. It's a hollowing hole, and we can't even give any serious criticism, but not some serious commendation. But what we have done with our amendments is that we have warned of some symptoms means HDZ's authorities that really don't put emphasis on economic development or on social sensitivity, or on the possibility of any change, so we got the response from the secretary of state that the assistants in the follow-up were provided with enough funds. Comrades and colleagues, continuing assistants cost this country half a military plane. So many are appreciated and so many are provided with them, and it's about people who work full-time to actually get fired every summer and renovate contracts at the 9th month. Or let's just say we got an answer from the state's assistants that enough funds were given to resuscitate companies in bankruptcy or labour claims. Well, colleagues and colleagues, and only the Kamensky case warns you that these women have only charged 15% of their claims. And then I get an answer from the Secretary of State enough resources for workers who are in trouble in bankrupt companies. Or I get the answer that there's enough resources to rebuild, so I don't think there's too much to spend on how much it's being restored in this country. More and faster recovery was made 60 years ago in Makarska when the earthquake occurred. So we don't see a shift in economic development in this budget. We don't see any social sensitivity, or anything that could really get us out of this crisis, but in any case this the budget is within what the HDZ has set as possible. [[Intruder: Time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110764	The apartment is approved. Here you go, colleague Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110765	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club to point out once again that this budget rebalance is not good. The debt of the country or deficit is increasing to 13.6 billion kuna or more than 4 billion kuna in the first half of the year, although income from value added tax has increased and many other tax revenues have increased. I would like to make it clear that, in the course of 2020 and 2021, We have greatly praised the billions available from the EU and European funds, but we clearly see in this budget rebalancing that operational programmes have not been adopted, only in the Ministry of Economy planned 100 million kunas for co-financing of European projects have been reduced to 23 million kuna or 77 million kuna, and it is very clear that this country with this government will not go forward and especially that we cannot use the potentials that we have in the country, and how we plan to use the potentials offered by the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110766	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110767	I thank the chairman. So I'm looking for a break of at least 10 minutes on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia. I must admit that I was bitter at the debate that led to rebalancing in this high home, it seems to me that we have only actually determined that the state has picked up several billion kunas in tax repression, so through VAT and contributions, and that we have then directed these funds primarily into a black hole or a bag without a bottom which is our health care and in the supply of food to our population whose raw materials we don't really know about. Although it is the obligation of the state to ensure the food sovereignty of its population, which is also one of the preconditions of the state, it seems to me that in that field we have not yet broken out of the winter and everything seems to me to be exactly our citizens, but our farmers will, in the most part, take the burden of this crisis on their backs in which the country is located. I have to mention that this year's crop has collected as many as 3 times, so our farmers paid artificial fertilisers 3 times higher, today they pay blue diesel 3 times higher, and the prices of their products, so I will start only from milk, not follow these purchases, so our milkers continue to produce milk for slightly more than 2 kuna, why don't we call the dairy industry to account. We have a harvest ahead of us, we don't know what the price of wheat will be offered on the market, and not to mention this fight that burned most of the Republic of Croatia where the institutions were, in fact, obstructing the anti-urban defense and we don't really have it anymore, thereby further jeopardizing the food sovereignty of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110768	The apartment is approved. Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to point to the state of this rebalancing situation again, yes. We used to be every 4 years. bring rebalancing or some kind of harmonisation to have money for health care, then every 2 years, and unfortunately now it's started twice a year we're going to have to bring rebalancing to somehow stabilise the spending side of health. It has been shown that on the revenue side and raising contributions have failed to stabilise health, 3 billion debt has not yet been shown, we have an additional 3 billion. What we expect at least someone to come up with some kind of reform plan is, let's not forget that at the 9th month, a covid can come up again. Also, as far as the expenditure side is concerned, no one really talked about it, and yesterday we saw the Croatian Employers' Association, we will stop the construction sector. Let us not forget that the largest part of GDP other than consumption is the construction sector. The government has recommended that VTRs be recognised, no one is still working on that recommendation, why, because they are waiting for a warrant or a legal solution to recognise the extra-cost expenditures and, or methodology to recognise that the construction sector could start working again, but in order for all those working for the state to have those funds rebalanced in the budget. Let's not play with construction, big impact on GDP. The builders are pulling out now with, with, nobody wants to destroy their firm because they don't know if it'll be recognized for them, right? You made recommendations, the recommendations don't work, give them a legal solution, give them a methodology and provide funds in the budget, because if it stops by 9 months, the construction will not have that GDP that you're supposed to be lower than 3%, and that's why we're asking that the real state of this rebalancing be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110770	The apartment is approved. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110771	Thank you very much, President. In the name of the Social Democrats Club, I am also looking for a break to point to the unrealisticity of this budget because the rulings have seen neither war, nor inflation, nor people who still live in containers after 2nd century. when rebalancing this budget. Unfortunately, there is no measure that will amortize the inflationary impact on our citizens' standards. It is also not recognized a moment for agriculture, in the light of war we have not allocated funds to maximise our agricultural production, to extract every grain of grain we can because colleagues and colleagues if the war continues, and according to the will comes to question food supply. Croatia can at least be self-sufficient in cereals, but unfortunately this kind of rebalancing will not be. Some colleagues have already talked about health care, I would not have been very long on this, but if you had listened to us when we were warning when we were making a budget of health problems, we wouldn't have to have this rebalancing time. Unfortunately, there is no renewal in this budget, there is no O since the renovation, but don't wait here I just read on one portal saying finally moving the reconstruction on Tuesday of two houses in Jakushinc and in Slani Potok, after 2nd g. We've succeeded here in Krapina-Zagorje County we'll tear down two houses, but that means that neither for the next 50 years. There will be no restoration, especially with such rebalancing. And at the end of the day, this rebalancing, as I said, is not motivated by either war, nor by inflation, nor by speeding up renewal, but by just bad forecasts, and you could have predicted many things by ruling, and that's why we're simply wasting our time and energy, because we're sure as hell going to have to rebalance this budget one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110772	The apartment is approved. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Department of State Movements, I am also looking for a 10-minute break to once again highlight the unrealisticity and inadequacy of this budgetary rebalancing, to point out once again that the budget is rebalanced largely so that we can say freely for the sole purpose of the resolution of an extremely huge budget gap, which every year in the Croatian budget is caused by completely disorganised and unorganised healthcare. We just assume it's 5.6.8, and we assume or we can almost be sure that this is going to be 10 in the spring of next year, and then in the fall of next year it's going to be 12 or 15 billion kuna that this is simply unsustainable. Likewise, the reconstruction itself that we don't even know how we're going to spend it, I was at the board meeting, we were looking at Minister Paladin, he showed us a plan to speed up the renovation, but he didn't want to present it, so a very mysterious paper group or a document that we don't know exactly whether or not he'd be able to contribute to a reconstruction with or without budget funds that's almost in place. And what may be the most important is a lot of funds being sent to the full blood of purpose, a fight that struck as many as five Croatian counties on Wednesday, to remind you in 2021 here the Homeland Movement asked to keep the anti-urban defenses. The damage by the Ministry of Finance's calculations was only since the fight in Posjestina last year, the battle that hit five Croatian counties this Wednesday cannot even calculate how much damage it will bring. So, it's very irresponsible to have such resources, to return the anti-building defense for it in this budget was no place, and I'm afraid because of these many holes it won't be in the next.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110774	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Here you go, my fellow Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110775	In front of the Focus Club and independent MPs would request a 10 minute break, we have before us a vote on amendments and the rebalancing of the state budget. It is increasing by nearly 11 billion kuna, in the debate we pointed out that it does not solve those problems ahead of us, the first problem is clear inflation, the increase in the cost of life and on the other hand the economy that lies in one... situation where it expects the help of the government and all the authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, we help health care, but we don't help others. The finance minister has now announced a new set of measures, now two, three weeks later it is clear that these measures should be taken towards citizenship, but they are not in this budget rebalancing. The rebalancing rate is mostly due to an increase in inflation rate at the same cost. And when we talk about the economy, then I'm going to say that tourism is precisely in the laws that were in this assembly a few days ago that were actually thrown out, 80% of the projects for the next period won't be possible because it's not possible. I agree with the construction industry, after all, and this assembly building and the government buildings have already been in competitions twice, so no performers could be found. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia can't do that then how will the other one? I therefore call on the issue of construction to be resolved immediately. Everyone says they have too much to do, but it's going to change very soon. And finally, the amendments are a variety of, of assistance that is related to assistants in the course of perhaps one of the most important things, so I don't know until the General Hospital of Bjelovar, almost all of them have been rejected, I think in individual situations the government should act differently and accept amendments that are intended for some specific and useful purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110776	The apartment is approved. Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110777	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again the importance and necessity of this rebalancing. The DSZ has just announced that GDP growth in the first quarter was 7%, suggesting it has been a continuous growth since 2021. What should be pointed out is that during this period, there has been an increase in employment growth, as well as a nominal growth in wages, which further encourages that budget revenues will be achieved in a very strong way with this dynamic as this rebalance is projected by 6.6 billion kuna. In addition, the new circumstances that have occurred with the war in Ukraine where pensions need to be taken care of and help social and health care families who are in unrest, in addition to ensuring the growth of the basis for the calculation of salaries in state and public services, increase pensions, then provide support to the agricultural sector, fill in the supply supply in order to ensure that gas and oil is sufficient. Also, the rehabilitation to provide health care with all of this for about 11 billion kunas is very important and therefore this rebalancing has achieved the goal of increasing expenditure is actually happening to continuously reduce the public debt expected to 76%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110778	The apartment has been approved, but in the light of the article. In 293 we will continue to work, but before that, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110779	He's been injured. 238. This is almost amazing to hear from the mouth of a parliamentary representative who speaks about GDP growth due to such inflation that has eaten both GDP and at the moment when we've moved out who knows how many, we don't even know how many Croatian citizens. To talk about GDP growth and pay growth when inflation ate that salary growth several times I don't know in which world You esteemed MPs live. [[Break president: Comrade Grumo, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110780	You get a warning from your colleague, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110781	Yes, thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure in 238, it is amazing what we heard here, means that colleagues Peric called for GDP growth to continue as you said from 2021, not to mention the size of the GDP decline a year before that when we had the biggest GDP decline in Europe. Only two countries were worse than us is likely not to mention salary growth we have some of the lowest salaries in Europe, the lowest, one of the lowest employment rates.. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110782	.../ You're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110783	/... in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u110784	This is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also a replica. Now, as I have announced, we are going to vote on the amendments. The 20th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept. We're on our way. 1st is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, it is accepted. 2. is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget accepted. 3rd Amendment, MP Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept it, so let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 4 Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 5th Amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Six, same MP, government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 8th amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 9th amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. The 10th same representative, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 11th amendment, re-legate Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 12th amendment, the same representative, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. 13th Amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. 14, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 15, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't go through. The 16th amendment, the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 17th, Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. The government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 18, MP Miro Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 19th amendment, MP Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. 20, MP Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 21st, Advocacy Club Most, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. The 22nd amendment, MP Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 23rd amendment, representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, Josip Begonja, Hrvojo Zekanovic and Frank Vidovic, was accepted. The 24th amendment, MP Antolic Vupra, the government does not accept. Let's vote. He didn't make it. The 25th amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. The 26th Amendment, MP Puljak, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 27, the Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 28th Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 29th Amendment, Advocacy Club Most, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 30th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 31, MP Peovic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 32nd amendment, the Green-left bloc advocates club, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. 33rd, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 34th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 35. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 36. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 37. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't go through. MP Peovic's 38th amendment, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 39th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 40th same representative, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 41st representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 42. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 43rd representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 44th Amendment MP Stjepan Kovac is invalid. The 45th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 46th same MP, government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 47. A SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 48th Agent Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 49th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 50th same representative, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 51st Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 52nd representative, Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. 53rd representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 54th re-legate Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 55. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 56th representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. 57th representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 58. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 59th representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 60th legislator Andreja Maric, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 61st representative, Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. 62nd representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 63. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 64. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 65th Representative Ban Vlahek, the amendment has been withdrawn. 66th MP Peovic, also withdrawn. 67th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't make it. 68th representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 69th amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. The amendment didn't go through. The 70th Amendment, Agent Byce, the government does not accept it. The amendment didn't go through. 71st, MPs Ljubica Lukačić and representative Siniša Jankača are accepted. 72nd, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Let's vote. He didn't make it. In 73rd, MP Peovic, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 74th, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 75th amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. In 76, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 77th amendment, MP Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 78th amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments related to the amendment and addition of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2022 and the '23 Plan projection. And '24. Mr. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment, the same representative, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 3rd amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments related to the amendment and addition of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2022 and the '23 Projection. And '24. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3. Representatives Bulj, again, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 4, the same representative, the government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 5th amendment, MP Kujundzic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th amendment, MP Jaksic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 8th amendment, MP Kujundzic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 9th Amendment, the same representative, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. The 10th Amendment, the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 11th Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 12th amendment, re-legislator Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. The 13th amendment, MP Kujundzic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. And last, 14, the Bridge Representatives Club, the government doesn't accept it. Not even this amendment has passed. Now we're going to go to the vote. So based on art. 91 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 252 HS Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the state budget require most of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and Project for 2023 and 2024. Please vote. I find that 126 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were against, 49 and thus adopted Amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and the 2023 and 2024 projections in accordance with Article 39. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the amendments and complementing the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2022 and the projection of plans for 2023 and 2024. There are nine choices. We propose a united vote. Are we in agreement? Okay. I am voting in favour of the following decisions: the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Reconstruction and Energy Efficiency, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Decision to give consent to the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Croatian Motorways. Please, let's vote. It voted 125 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 48 against, so we made all of those decisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the draft conclusion: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the motions, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024 prior to their publication in the National Journal. Please, let's vote. 89 deputies and MPs voted in favour, so we all voted in favour of the conclusion that it was proposed by the Legislative Committee. Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. No. 276. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 48 against, and thus passed the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the draft annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. Please, let's vote. 125 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 48 against, voted again, thus bringing the Annual Report on the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's 2021 budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of I shall put the budget law and the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget to the vote and the following decisions. There's nine of them again. I suggest we vote unitedly if you agree? Thank you. So, I am voting on the following decision: Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's financial plan, Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Finance Plan of the Croatian Waters, Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan, Decision on the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency, Decision on the granting of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the National Deposit Insurance Agency's Financial Plan, Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Annual Plan of the HZ Infrastructure, Decision on the granting of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Annual Plan of the Croatian Motors and the Decision on the Implementation of the Implementation of the Traveling of the Yearly Traveling Plan. Please, let's vote. I find that 123 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 46 against, by making all those decisions. Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. No. 276. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 48 against, and thus passed the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112387	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS. We have before us a vote because there is an urgent procedure for the final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act. I have a feeling that the ruling and the government are staring hard at the fact that it's happening in Europe and the world. On February 24th, he changed Europe and the world and changed it except us. This law speaks of everything but encouraging investment. The opportunity we have is an opportunity that shouldn't be missed, but we're absolutely missing it. And the opportunity we're missing in the restoration, imagine the restoration is gone, not because there's no money, but because we don't know how to make it, and there's no people to do it. Equally, it was expected that the Investment Encouragement Act really spoke about encouraging investment. Not only to encourage investment in certain branches of the economy, but to encourage investment in something that can give us a big step. It is an incentive to invest in construction and to activate state assets. Nor do we have the incentive to invest in construction, and when I talk about it then I say it in a way that should encourage investment in construction materials factories. My colleagues and colleagues, you can't buy nails, you can't buy basic elements, you can't buy anything. Here sits with us Mayor Petrinja, imagine colleagues in the area of Banovina and Banovina starting to work two construction materials factories from what crashes to recycle it, which step would be, and this is one of the laws that should help. Not nice words, not saying what we've done, but showing it how we want it to be. And when it comes to government property and putting it into operation, we completely forgot it, and we forgot when we were at the head of the ministry or when you're... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112388	Thank you, colleague Mrak Taritash. The break has been granted. Now she'll explain her break and her colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112389	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn not only that this law is missing but that the long-term serious damage that certain provisions of this law can make to the Croatian space and the Croatian economy. Once again, this law allows public money to be co-financed, and this is a law on how public money will be co-financed by private investment in the economy. Thus, the law again allows public money to be given to private investors in tourism investing in greenfield, not limited to brownfield. In particular, therefore, public money can be spent to give to investors in hotels, camps, golf courses, nautical ports. At a time when we know we have a serious problem with coastal devastation, when we know that, for example, only in Split-Dalmatia County on a yearly construction goes to 3.5 km of coastal line, when we have overruns of coastal lines so that we can build even deeper into the sea, when we have the fact that we actually have huge imports during the summer. Which is why 65% of tourism revenues end up in someone else's country. And you spend our public money and money from EU funds to give private investors who invest in hotels. So if you'd limited it to brownfield investments, they would have told me okay, so at least they would have activated the fund of buildings that were destroyed, destroyed, etc. and made them something. But no, you're investing in greenfield and you're still destroying our coast, and you're giving money to a branch that generates low profit jobs, jobs that are beautiful and that are actually continuous. We need to import labour. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112390	Thank you very much, the break is approved, but we will continue to work in accordance with Article 293b. We go first with the amendments, we have 7 amendments to the Committee on Law, the government has accepted them and become an integral part of the final bill. Then we have amendments, the first amendment of MP Dark Taritash, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. The amendment didn't go through. We now have 3 amendments to MP Peovic, the government does not accept any of those 3 amendments. Let's go vote. Amendment No. 1. He didn't make it. Amendment No. 2, please vote. He didn't make it. And Amendment No. Three, same representative, please vote. The amendment didn't go through. And we have another amendment to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112391	Excuse me, can we ask for a record of how the amendment was voted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112392	Well, it's all on the record. ... Everyone sits in their seats and you know exactly who's voting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The amendment has not passed, so let's now go to the vote, the Final Proposal for a Law on Investment Encouragement. Who's in? Let's vote on it. ... 120 MPs and MPs voted, 75 were for, 27 were abstentions and 18 were against, and the Investment Encouragement Act was passed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 279, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. We have a request for a break, colleague Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112521	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. In the name of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are looking for a break to show to all of you once again that the Proposer in this case has actually violated the basic principles of a sense of justice because in art. In 96, by regulating the conditions necessary for the state's attorney to be removed from the trial, or from his constitutional obligations, to suspend him in some way, to remove him from office, he says he will not do so for any state attorney who commits a criminal offence or if he is being prosecuted for up to 5 years in prison. Imagine you all being so... Crimes up to five years in prison, how many violations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, a police officer, a customs officer, a civil servant, here, our officers in the Parliament, if even criminal charges are filed against them with reasonable suspicion, they are already suspended. Therefore, we strongly oppose it, and it is incomprehensible that the Government should withdraw it to do so, and even worse, colleague Oreshkovic herself noticed, after the service of the state's attorney and his deputy, they should no longer submit any property card, so what is all this for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112522	Stanka's been approved, but we'll keep working. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Let's vote. 120 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 22 abstentions and 22 against, and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 280, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. 120 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 22 were abstentions, 22 were against, and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112975	Here's a good morning, everyone, before we start on the agenda, I just want a heads-up. As there are few reported for this point after the debate, then here I am informing all clubs that immediately after the final debate, we will be on the move with a view, if there is no increase in number in the meantime. And regardless, I expect we'll take a stand. Here, we leave this morning: - Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and on matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 278; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 278. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112976	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. At EU level, a Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and on matters relating to parental responsibility and on the international abduction of children entering into force in the Republic of Croatia on 1 August 2022 is hereby repealed by the Council Regulation of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental liability. The Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and annulment and disputes on parental responsibility with the international element. The scope of decisions and authentic documents and certain agreements in the EU is facilitated by setting out provisions on their recognition and enforcement in other Member States. Finally, this Regulation complements the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on the civil rights of child abduction in relation to relations between Member States and strengthens the right of the child to express his own opinion. This Regulation also strengthens legal certainty and increases flexibility by regulating those issues, as well as ensures better access to judicial procedures and greater efficiency of such procedures. As an instrument of secondary EU legislation, the Council Regulation of 25 June is directly applicable in the field of Member States. The law implementing the Council Regulation shall ensure the effective application of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Social Care shall be designated as the central authority of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this Regulation. The courts, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care shall be designated as competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation. The law stresses the importance of the child’s well - being and of expressing his child’s opinion in the process and of haste. Furthermore, the law regulates matters of legal assistance, issue of certificates in accordance with the Regulation, legal medicines, choice of court, and the possibility of reaching an agreement on jurisdiction for parental care procedures in relation to the procedures of international child abduction. Transferring competences in parental responsibility procedures between courts of different countries by handling the best interests of the child. Following the above, it is proposed that HS adopt the Proposal for a Law implementing the Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and in matters related to parental responsibility and the international abduction of a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112977	We have a few replicas. The first was respected Anita Pocrnicč-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112978	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State. This Regulation shall repeal the Council Regulation of November 2003 on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters relating to parental liability by continuing to apply to decisions taken in court proceedings which have been initiated on authentic documents which have been formally drawn up or entered into the register and to agreements which have become enforceable in the Member State before the conclusion, before 1 August 2022, when the Regulation is to enter into force. How much, so this Regulation is not new to us but the previous version of this Regulation is already in force and how many procedures do you know, are there in the Republic of Croatia covered by the Regulations and to which Regulation does it apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112979	This, yes, continues with certain technical changes, and as regards the ministry as a central body, up to now in 2022, some 20 cases have been received under Council Regulation of 27 November 2003, and currently we have 1208 cases in the paper, of which we have about 25 cases on average, on average, concerning international child abduction. The maximum number of items relate to the cross-border maintenance charge which this Regulation does not actually regulate, so here we will continue of course as I mentioned it is about certain technical changes, and among other things the effective application of the Regulation is ensured. It is precisely this law that deals most with the changes introduced, which relate to the deadlines and the area of international kidnapping.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112980	Next replica, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112981	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state. This Regulation, i.e. the Law on the application of this Regulation, stresses the best interests of the child and takes into account the child's well-being, the expression of his own opinion and means the Centre for Special Care. We know that the Centre for Special Care is overloaded in its work and of 18 special guardians of the legal profession who are territorially deployed in the 4 offices of the Centre for Special Care are not able to properly represent children's rights in such a way as the legal regulations require. They, according to the Ombudsman's data, were present at 15 hearings, 15% of the hearings of the total scheduled and their physical, so the inability to arrive was replaced by written submissions, or indications. How will you actually ensure good representation children's rights and in these procedures with regard to overload. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112982	Thanks for asking. We've already had additional employment at the Special Care Centre in the past year, and now 21 of the new special guardians are under way. We're aware of the overload, but that's exactly why we're working on increasing the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112983	The next replica, the esteemed Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112984	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. About here in the next month will be five years as we all, the entire Croatian public, followed that event from Split, I believe you remember. Father Italian, mother of the Croats, we mentioned one of those difficult concepts about the child and the whole public got pretty excited. We see here in Article 10(2), the competent authorities are obliged to enable the child to express his own opinion taken into account, of course, in accordance with his age and maturity. The child will be able to express his opinion directly or through a special guardian, which is certainly not questionable. However, I would only ask for a little further clarification on how much this child’s opinion will ultimately affect a possible judicial decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112985	Well, I can't talk about the court's decisions, but we are aware that a child's opinion is very important and that in any case it should be taken into account again in accordance with his age, emotionally and generally with maturity, but that is why we have experts who are here to assess it and here I think that it should be taken into account in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112986	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first one was registered on behalf of the SDP representative, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112987	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law implementing a Council Regulation on the jurisdiction of recognition, enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and on matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children. This Regulation lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and annulment of marriage, and disputes on parental responsibility with the international element. The child’s best interests are highlighted, the child’s well-being is taken into account, the competent authorities are required to enable the child to express their own opinions taken into account in view of its age and maturity, and the child expresses his opinion directly or through a special custodian. A special custodian shall be appointed by the Centre for Special Care. The question of the functioning of the Centre for Special Care is immediately raised, which was also warned by the Ombudsman for children whose difficulties there is a very generous report. The work of the Centre for Special Care should certainly be improved in the organisational sense and it has many weaknesses. Namely, there are now 18 special legal professionals who are territorially deployed in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split and cannot objectively represent the relevant interests of children. During 2021, 8017 children were to be represented in procedures before the competent authority, and an average custodian was to take care of the protection of the interest of 445 children in 293 cases. How in child representation special guardians also represent adults on average each custodian is working on 488 cases annually. According to the Ombudsman, special guardians attended all 15% of all scheduled court hearings, which is devastating and is not their responsibility but their organisational responsibility, and writing submissions cannot qualityly represent the interests of children. In fact, their role in the existing system is not clear enough for them whether they represent the best interests of the child or they are transferors of the child’s opinion. A special custodian in court proceedings other than attending the hearings is also obliged to have a direct continuous relationship and contact with the child, to meet the child with the role of a special guardian, with the case of court proceedings, on his right to express his opinion, to clarify the possible consequences of respecting the child's or possible outcome. There is also a conversation with parents and meeting parents with the family situation and children to assess the overall best interests of the child. The State Secretary also said that 20 special custodians would be additionally employed, which is a significant number on these 18, but it is certainly something that will not ultimately enable the child's interest to be represented in court proceedings as ordered by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is all actually in the existing organisation of a special custody centre to satisfy a particular form, but far from protecting the child's best interest and achieving children's rights in judicial proceedings. According to the lawyer's report in Croatia, a satisfactory level of child rights in judicial proceedings has not yet been achieved. Unfortunately, procedures take too long, there is no adequate assistance and support for the child during the course of the proceedings, and children do not receive the necessary information that is understandable to them. There is often no coordination and cooperation between the systems prescribed in the protocols. The proposal for this law was prescribed by the competent authorities for implementation with the Ministry is that of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and Courts. The law introduces the use of video conferences or other technologies for long-distance communication, and stresses the need for haste treatment and prescribed provisions on how to communicate. In addition to the importance of child welfare, the law also introduces peaceful dispute resolution through mediation in cross-border family disputes, especially in disputes with cross-border parental child abductions. The Institute of Peaceful Resolution of Family Legal Disputes is prescribed by the current Family Law, which was adopted in 2015. Family mediation is carried out during mandatory consultation, each expert at the Social Care Centre is obliged to inform the spouses who intend to divorce the obligation to respond to the first family mediation meeting if they have not reached an agreement or a joint parental care plan. Family mediation is a process in which all family members participate voluntarily, and the mediator is an impartial and particularly educated person who is enrolled in the Register of Family Mediators, and the main purpose of achieving family mediation is to reach a plan on joint parental care and other agreements in relation to the child. In addition to that purpose in the process of family mediation, the parties may agree on other issues of property and non-proprietary nature, as well as through these procedures prescribed by the regulation adopted today or by the Law implementing the Council Regulation. The peaceful resolution of family disputes is recognised as important in European legislation, especially in procedures where a child is involved, or in parental care procedures. Due to the overload of national courts in EU cross-border disputes, the regulation encourages and effectively binds Member States to introducing an alternative to judicial dispute resolution. Family mediation shall not be carried out in cases of domestic violence if one or both spouses are deprived of their business ability and are unable to understand the meaning and legal consequences of the procedure with no professional assistance, if one or both spouses are incapable of judgment and if the spouse has an unknown residence or residence. According to current data, despite existing legislation and the national framework for family mediation in the context of child abduction has not been used once. If I said something wrong, I'm asking the secretary of state to correct me. The principle of child welfare for the consequences of a child in marital disputes certainly calls for awareness of the importance of agreement and mediation as alternatives to court proceedings, which gives full importance and responsibility to parents for all consequences in the psychophysical development of children. In view of the effectiveness of the use of the mediation process as a prevention system to address the problems arising from the change in the country of residence of the child, the mediation should certainly be improved in all cross-border family disputes, and in particular in disputes involving the move of the child to another country. The SDP club will support this law because newspapers in the legislation are in line with the Council Regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children. The regulation improves the rights and well-being of the child, but as in any document that we bring here is implementation. Our system is stifled by the procedures and the centre for special custody as I have said is overloaded, and to have the actual content and representation of the child in court proceedings he is currently satisfying the form, and the peaceful settlement of disputes is not sufficiently recognised in public consciousness. According to the Institute, the Croatian Institute of Social Work, the Centre for Social Care, all implemented 316 mediation procedures and should certainly be done by the government and the competent ministry, providing all the resources for the implementation of this law so that it will not be a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112988	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112989	Thank you, Vice President, honoring State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking today about the Law implementing the EU Council Regulation No. 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and on matters related to parental responsibility, and on international child abduction. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and complies with the EU acquis. At EU level, the EU Council Regulation 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 was also adopted. on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children who are put outside the scope of Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial matters and matters relating to parental responsibility and entry into force in the Republic of Croatia on 1 August 2022. As an instrument of secondary EU legislation, this Regulation is directly applicable in the field of Member States following the adoption at national level of the Law implementing the Council Regulation, the said Regulation was already adopted on 25 June 2019. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children to the extent necessary for the effective application of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia. The EU Council's objective regulation introduces additional provisions on the international abduction of children and introduces deadlines for the conduct of central authorities and elaborates certain procedures, e.g. child accommodation procedures in another Member State. This Regulation also consists of 9 chapters and the most extensive amendments have been introduced in the area of international child abduction by introducing a new chapter supplementing the implementation of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnapping. Furthermore, the law makes it clearer to lay down rules of conduct in the reference of certain pleas under the Regulation concerning requests relating to the delivery of documents, in accordance with the need to ensure effective and expeditious treatment in matters relating to parental responsibility. This law lays down the Ministry of Social Care tasks as the central authority of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this Regulation and provides for courts, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care as the competent authorities for the implementation of this Regulation. The law will highlight the importance of conducting an emergency procedure, and the importance of the welfare of the child and of enabling the child to express his own opinion with an emphasis on the competent centre for special care. These laws also refer to the application of secondary EU legislation governing the use of the video conference and encourages direct judicial communication, which is in line with the requirements set out in the regulation, clearly determines the implementation of the regulation, regulates the choice of the court, and provides for the possibility of reaching an agreement on parental care procedures in relation to the procedures of international child abduction, the issue of litipence is also regulated, the importance of conducting an emergency procedure, and the importance of the child's well-being and the ability to express his own opinion of the child, the issue of legal assistance, the issue of certification, and legal medicines. What we can say here is what this law specifically regulates is that the competent authorities for implementing the regulation are courts, the Institute for Social Work, the Centre for Special Care and other institutions as necessary. The Central Implementation Body is currently the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, meaning the ministry responsible for social care affairs. The date of initiation of the proceedings before a court or litispendence shall be the date of initiation of the mandatory consultation at the centre in accordance with the Family Law which is required prior to the initiation of the court proceedings. As far as legal aid is concerned, the administrative authorities in the counties and the City of Zagreb are responsible in accordance with national rules. Legal medicines and jurisdiction of courts in the second degree there are county courts in charge of family matters in accordance with national rules. As regards the procedure for issuing certificates in accordance with the Regulation in the case of a competent court, and the appeal proceedings, the court issuing the judgment in a mandatory form in the language of the State in which the judgment is to be carried out and the judgment shall not be translated. As regards the proceedings, the procedures for the transfer of jurisdiction to courts of another State at the request of a party or on official duty where a court in another State which is not competent would be a better choice for decision-making, e.g. if the child is closely associated with that State or other reasons for a particular Regulation. The law also lays down bodies and procedures for cross-border accommodation of a child, i.e. the Institute of Social Work for the Competent Authority, the central body gives prior consent to the accommodation, and the centre decides on the best interests of the child and monitors the child during his stay in another country. It also encourages the use of a video conference for procedures and stresses the urgency of the child's behaviour and the protection of the child's well-being, as well as the identification of the child's opinion. This law further regulates the process of transfer of competences in parental responsibility procedures between courts of different countries by managing the best interests of the child. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia as the funds are secured under the regular activity of the authorities responsible for the implementation of this law. There is no need for additional funds for salaries, since the required number of employees will be provided by internal redistribution of officials. Following that above, the HDZ Club will support the Law implementing the EU Council Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112990	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112991	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The subject of today's debate is the Proposal for a Law implementing the Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition, enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and matters relating to parental responsibility and the international abduction of children submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 12 May 2022. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Regulation shall apply to all EU Member States except Denmark from 1 August 2022. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 4(4) of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce of legal divorce and annulment of marriage as well as disputes on parental responsibility with the international element. The Social Democrats' Club supports such a proposal for a law implementing the EU Council Regulation as it should aim to strengthen legal certainty and increase flexibility, as well as to ensure better access and greater efficiency of judicial proceedings. This Regulation should facilitate the circulation of decisions and the authenticity of documents and certain agreements in the EU by laying down provisions on their recognition and enforcement in other Member States and supplementing the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on the civil and legal aspects of international child abduction. By adopting this law, the establishment of a central authority and competent authorities shall clearly determine the institutional framework of the implementation of the Regulation by recognising the Ministry responsible for social care affairs as the central body of the Republic of Croatia, and by determining, above all, the courts of the Croatian Institute of Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care as the competent authorities. The law regulates certain issues of competence of the body, and in particular the issue of jurisdiction in the procedures of international child abduction, and sets out specific issues of implementation of the provisions of the Regulation in the part governing the transfer of competences. In addition, more detailed implementing issues concerning the issue of certificates provided for in the Regulation and the use of videoconferencing or other remote communication technologies have been detailed. Rules of conduct shall be laid down when reference is made to certain applications pursuant to the Regulation relating to the submission of documents in accordance with the need to ensure effective and expeditious treatment in matters relating to parental responsibility. In addition to this law, the authorities refer to the application of secondary EU legislation governing the use of videoconferencing, and the inclusion of a provision to encourage direct judicial communication is in line with the requirements set out in this section by the Regulation. This law will also further regulate procedural, i.e. implementing issues of transfer of competence on parental liability procedures between courts of different countries, by managing the best interests of the child. As regards this proposal for a law, I would stress the importance of Article 9 concerning the urgency of the procedure under which all competent authorities are obliged to act without delay in all proceedings on the basis of the provisions of the Council Regulation and in the procedures of return of the child in cases of unlawful detention and detention of courts of each degree should take a decision no later than 6 weeks from the initiation of the procedure unless this is not possible in the light of exceptional circumstances. The child's well-being should be a priority in every procedure, and the urgency of the procedure is crucial in such difficult family situations. Article 10 provides for the principle of well-being and protection of the best interests of a child to be defined as fundamental in all proceedings. In this regard, in particular, the child’s right to express his opinion on matters concerning him, which, when expressed, take into account the child’s age and maturity, in accordance with Articles 21 and 26 thereof. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The child shall express his opinion directly or through a special custodian appointed by the court of the staff of the Centre for Special Care. In this way, the basic principle set out in recital 30 of the ninth Regulation should be met and the child should be given a real and effective opportunity to express his own opinion and take that opinion into account when assessing the child’s interest. The importance of peaceful dispute resolution is highlighted in Article 12, which states that competent authorities encourage peaceful dispute resolution, especially through family mediation, unless it would be contrary to the interests of the child. This bill regulates an extremely sensitive subject. It's about human fate, life stories where children suffer most of the time. A divorce is a stressful event that can lead to various unwanted consequences that often leave trauma, unfavorable effects on children’s psychological lives. Although we have legal frameworks very often, the quality of implementation of justice is often too often questionable, the efficiency of the system. Listening to the testimony of parents in the fight for custody of their children with often various domestic abuses sometimes we cannot really believe that it is even possible that the system can schedule so much and this system that is primarily aimed at and focus should be protecting the rights of the child, ensuring quality and safe life. It's unacceptable and most defeating. The task of society as a whole should seek and provide life protection against any kind of abuse, let alone when abuse occurs within the circle of our own family, which we all primarily need to be the base of security, love and protection, our safe place. So let's not close our eyes and ears and pretend it's none of our business, because it's not personal to us. It is the duty of all of us to build a better future, to help those who need help, to respect and respect the profession, to enforce legal regulations, to be responsible for addressing the problem, to show by example of humanity, empathy each individual. It's hard to imagine, let alone live through all the sadness, fear, disappointment, hell that many families go through, and most of all children suffer. It's up to us, all of us for our children, for future generations, for better society as a whole. Finally, I conclude that the Social Democrats Club will support this bill with the appeal that institutions work in quality and professionally, transparently and effectively in the implementation of legislation and thus start to regain confidence in the system and faith in the work of institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112992	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112993	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Your Honors Secretary of State, My colleagues and colleagues. The Regulation therefore lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and the annulment of marriage, and on disputes on parental responsibility with the international element. As already mentioned in all the discussions that preceded my own, these are very difficult, serious things when they happen to one family and especially a difficult trail, a clue that sometimes stretches and leaves for the whole later life, of course, to the least, the weakest ones, we can freely say to the most sensitive ones. It is therefore necessary to support, of course, the adoption of this Regulation, i.e. the application and voting of this law. It is doubtless so, but reminding once again that it is not enough to pass the law, but that it is certainly after that all those institutions that will be included in it, and these are here as we see the Ministry responsible for the affairs of social care as a central body, and then there are, of course, courts, the Croatian Institute of Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care as the competent authorities involved in this whole, we need to repeat the difficult and very serious process and of course do as much as possible and better primarily to the benefit of children who are most convincingly traumatized in such a situation. I also reminded here on June 2017, you know, all of Croatia has been closely monitored by all of us for what is going on with a little boy from Split, father Italian, mother of Croatia. We also heard the one as I mentioned in the opening line a very, very difficult puzzle, and that's really whenever someone says that we're going to complete a child, then it really has to give every normal person a heart to play out and it's out of sadness, of course. As far as the legal provisions are concerned, we have absolutely nothing that we could explain here, but that greetings are certain things. The body from which a particular procedure and service is required to be applied without delay shall therefore be subject to rapid and effective management of the central body. Also, if you already have a body that has received such a request for... the data does not have that body is immediately required, so without delay, to refer the request to the competent authority and to inform that central authority that it does not have that information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, all for the purpose of speeding up the process. The procedures based on the provisions of the Council Regulation encourage the use of a video conference, which should certainly also be welcomed because, of course, it speeds up and simplifies the whole process. What is certainly important and what will need to be paid great attention to the future is the question whether we have enough people in the system to do a job that will be entrusted to these changes and, of course, what is important here, Article 10(2), I will read it once again by the competent authorities, are obliged to enable the child to express their own opinions taken into account in accordance with his age and maturity, and the child expresses his opinion directly or through a special guardian. If a special custodian is required, then it is regulated Article 3 of the Court will appoint the child of a special guardian from the Centre for Special Care, so there is always once again a question of not only the professional competences of that person, but of course his empathy, and of course the ability to say freely by experts emotionally intelligent or any other maturity of the child. Sometimes we all have to admit that in divorce situations, children are not only victims, but also instrumentalized, put aside by one of the two people who decided to continue living without each other. So these children can also be very frustrated emotionally injured and I am sure that through the possible implementation of the effectiveness of the regulations will primarily follow this part in the next 6 months or years as much as these things have actually expressed their child’s own opinion through certain guardians and the assessment of the same child’s opinion has brought a certain weight to one or the other side in the divorce process, i.e. the termination of marriage. In any case, I repeat, the House of Homeland Movement Club sees absolutely nothing questionable here, and we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112994	Following the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Kresimir Ackara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112995	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs. The adoption of this law defines the implementation of a regulation establishing uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and the annulment of marriage, and disputes on parental responsibility with the international element, and in particular regulates the relationship between Member States and strengthens the right of the child to express his own opinion. The law defines and clearly determines the competent authorities for the implementation of the regulation, regulates time limits for the implementation of procedures that are faster and thus more effective for the welfare of children. An article has been established. 9th of this law that procedures of international, excuse me, must be taken within 6 weeks in the procedures of the international abduction of decisions on each participation. This fact should be particularly highlighted and highlighted since in such cases, the speed of dispute resolution comes to an exceptional importance for children who have found themselves in such an unspeakable situation and who have been counter-administratively taken and detained. The responsibility for each individual conduct and as a central authority for implementing the regulation shall be determined by the Ministry responsible for matters of social care, logically and justifiable, given the fact that we are talking about marital disputes and matters related to parental responsibility, which is and which must be fully devoted to the welfare of the child regardless of any problems or unresolved marital relations. It is so important that this central authority is responsible for the implementation of the regulation, but also clearly in cooperation and full co-operation and speed in cooperation with the competent authorities for the affairs of the judiciary, as well as bodies related to the external European policy. The linkage of all those bodies and mutual cooperation can only lead to the effectiveness and resolution of the disputes arising as quickly as possible by a peaceful solution or by a judicial procedure which can be more effective in the cooperation of the competent authorities. The peaceful resolution of disputes is highlighted by a separate article of the law which confirms the importance of such treatment in matters of conflict resolution, especially when it comes to a sensitive group of children. Therefore, the competent authorities are obliged to promote peaceful dispute resolution, in particular through family mediation, except in those cases where it would be contrary to the interests of the child or would delay the procedure. In addition, the law allows for the speed of resolution in a way that sufficient use of videoconferencing and other technological opportunities to communicate remotely, as well as direct judicial communication, which is certainly to be supported by the fact that this type of communication also comes at the speed of solving and allowing the return of the child to the environment to which it should belong. In this section, it is important to mention that this law allows, or insists, the child’s opinion because the competent authorities are obliged to enable the child to express their opinion directly or through a special guardian. This confirms the principle of well-being and protection of the best interests of the child and determines this principle as fundamental in all procedures. In view of all of the above and of the fact that all articles of the law withdraw and establish the main principle of child welfare and its protection, we consider the law to be well prepared and clear provisions accompanying the Council Regulations to enable its implementation in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that disputes are resolved quickly and efficiently and on the basis of mutual cooperation between Member States on all issues raised in international cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112996	Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-27-0.u112997	Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and in matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 278, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposed Law is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. In agreement with 118 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. The applicant is the Competition Protection Agency. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the decision to confirm the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, please vote. The vote was voted by 113 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 37 abstentions, and a decision was taken as proposed by the home working body.
