ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u102900	The next club of representatives will be that of HDZ, and will be spoken by the respected representative Mario Kapulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u102901	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. A few days ago we marked the 100th anniversary of the birth of Franjo Tudjman, a man under whose leadership in a decade that will remember generations achieved all the key national goals of that time. We succeeded because, in a painful and often tragic way, we learned that every time Croatia's policy sought shortcuts, when it lamentated with seemingly simple solutions, it threatened the world around it and, on the inside, built a policy to create antagonism and experienced failure. And these failures have hardly cost the Croatian people. Such shortcuts would destroy all our efforts at the time, just as those who offer them today threaten to destroy the present and people need to know. On the occasion of the anniversary of the referendum on Croatia's future, which took place today in '91. I wanted to remind myself of this, because of those who, when it comes to the role of today's President of the Republic, were inclined to compare incomparably, to equate what could not be equated, to remind people of what Tudjman was doing on May 1, 1991, on May 1st, he warned of a referendum, announced a review of the relationship with the JNA, on May 2nd after the Chetnic crime in Borov Sel, and even physically attacked them on the return to the airport, on May 2nd and on May 6th, he travelled to Belgrade for a meeting of the Yugoslav republics in Cetinje, where he was attacked and even physically attacked at the time of return to the airport, on May 3rd, at the meeting of the six presidents of the then Yugoslav republics in Trogir, on May 4th, he spoke to the leaders of all Dalmatian municipalities and reiterated the policy that we would make ourselves less of our lives. He knew what he was saying because already the next day on May 6th, the Supreme Command Headquarters announced the rise in fighting preparedness and mobilization of JNA. The 7th and 8th were in Britain, he spoke to the foreign minister and the former prime minister, and he didn't say it was beneath him and that Britain was a third-rate force that didn't know what the ball was while we were playing football. And he didn't leave easily when he was then in London four days after the Borov Selo massacre and the day the JNA tanks passed through Mostar towards Western Herzegovina and said they advocated Yugoslavia in which everyone would be pleased. Immediately after returning on 10 May, he again participated in the Conference of the Presidents of the Republic, 14 met with Kucan, the 18th held a referendum, called on everyone to be seen about Croatia's future and listened to 94% of the Croatian population who voted in favour of Croatian independence and sovereignty. Do you know where Tudjman was two days later? In Ukraine, there lectured not on how Ukraine is a corrupt Russian interest zone, and Kiev suburbs of Moscow but on the subject of the Croatian national issue from Slavic integralism to the modern national state. On the basis of the results of the referendum, Tudjman announced that Croatia is sovereign and independent, but that it continues negotiations with the other republics. On 24th and 25th, he paid an official visit to the Republic of Italy, 25th received by Pope John Paul II on that occasion not to hand over to the Pope the promemory of secession but to the fact that free Croatia wants to join a new European community. But already three days later, on 28 May, at the NK Zagreb Stadium, the National Guard's review was carried out. That's how politics is run. And finally, on May 30th, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the State Day of the same one that Zoran Milanovic says is an ordinary HDZ party, one for which Zoran Milanovic does not wish to congratulate Croatian citizens even though this assembly has included him in the calendar of national holidays. What's Tudjman doing? He calls neither for treason nor for high treason, he calls for a solemn proud and dignified celebration and says let the entire Croatian people celebrate May 30th as a day of spiritual reconciliation for all those who under different flags fought for freedom and sovereignty of the Croatian people. My final message, we try very hard to recognize who plays what role in today's circumstances, and let's not be as double-faced as yesterday's. Publicly requested that the defence minister be imprisoned for his application, and today [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] After confirming that USKOK has issued a search warrant against mayor Tomasevic courageously silently [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We may not succeed, but we try to be consistent and we don't all have to be like the Mat who to the truth.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u102996	Now, on behalf of the Club, the centre and voice representatives will speak to the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u102997	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. On the agenda of the Croatian Parliament of 2 November last year, therefore, 6 and a half months are the conclusion of the obligation to obtain intra-operative radiotherapy devices for every clinical hospital centre in Croatia. In Croatia, there are 5 clinical centres in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and the Milordnica Sisters. The conclusion that I have suggested is that each of the centers obtain an intraoperative radiotherapy device, which is a total of 4 because Sisters of Mercy already have it only in Croatia. I also gave the budget for this year four amendments, where I proposed to purchase devices for the four KBCs that did not have. Of course, the amendments are as Minister Maric would say generically rejected. Since the price of such a device was between four and five billion kunas, it was a total of 20 million. What kind of device is it, anyway? The intraoperative diagnostic device provides high doses of radiation once in an area directly affected by a tumour that is targetedly destroying tumour cells without damage to surrounding tissue. It is used mostly in breast cancer operations where about 40% of patients can be treated in this way and another part of the combination of this and classical radiotherapy. The device can also be used in gynecology in the head and neck tumors, even in some pancreas and colon tumors. What is most important is that the patients do not have to wait for the wound to heal, nor come to the hospital for long-term radiotherapy, which significantly accelerates the treatment, and reduces its overall duration. In Croatia there was only recently one first operation with intraoperative radio therapy, of course, in the KBC of the Sisters of Mercy. How much of the Croatian health care system, unfortunately, in the treatment of malignant diseases, best says that the use of intraoperative radiotherapy devices in many countries has been standard for twenty years. Given the benefits that such devices can provide for patients with malignancies, their price is negligible, and the Croatian healthcare system should make such a type of radiotherapy available at all clinical centres as soon as possible. And what does that look like in reality? In reality, we're having another possible affair. According to media, which has not been denied USKOK suspects that the device obtained for the Mercy Sisters has been significantly overpaid and has therefore been examined by two State Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health. A device that experts claim costs about 5 million kunas, which is the price I used to manage when I proposed the conclusion, or the amendments, was paid 2 million kuna. So, like two wholes and a little bit more. Otherwise, manufacturers of such devices do not normally have on their websites the price of these devices, but since it is a technology that is written a lot of articles in professional publications from India to Great Britain which mention the prices of such a device confirm that it is about 5 million kuna with VAT of that specific model of the ZAIS, which may have been obtained in India, perhaps in Great Britain and in all countries between except one country, which is Croatia. There's this device paid 11 million and now I'm wondering if one device paid double or how the shush bought is two. And where did the other one end up? Who's the other one for? In any case, it's not good and it confirms that our health care is the space of the biggest chaos and the biggest money spill we discussed yesterday. And let's not fool ourselves. It's not just about the budget. Croatia has worse and worse indicators in treating diseases especially cancer, so if a device that can improve it we pay double what it should actually mean: corruption kills people. Corruption kills people, it can't and can't be hidden, and that's why we become aware. When we become aware of that, we may be heading towards healing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103080	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Katica Glamuzina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103081	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We all know how to identify compassionate individuals and we all appreciate them most because it depends on their goodwill and their internal moral compass. But speaking of the state, compassion is a wonderful miracle in many situations of legal obligation. This is how any country and so does this beautiful one of us treats those of our citizens who are disfigured or have difficulties most of them do not have, and that is the indicator of one country's compassion, and how successfully they have established regulated and enforceable support systems for these citizens, it is one of the indicators of efficiency and ability of those who lead the country. I specifically refer to children with developmental difficulties and the way they go through the education system in Croatia. They are children who have the same national and internationally defined right to education as all their peers just need additional assistance which is also a legal obligation. However, as is the case with a lot of things in our country, it is a very long and complicated way from proving that the criteria for these legally defined rights are fulfilled, which in itself is quite exhausting and bureaucratic procedure, to their real achievement, and very often to these laws guaranteed rights to those who are most in need do not succeed. Assistants in the course are essential and it has been necessary since the very beginning of the educational process of preschool. Assistants in continuing each child’s parents with developmental difficulties represent the safety that their child at school will be cared for and get a chance to enter and develop along with her peers with her rhythm. We are talking about the inclusive education that we are committed to among other things and the signing of international conventions, but from one signature to the real achievement of these goals is a long and thorny path that often does not end well. There's a lot of unresolved problems with the assistants in the class. These people usually work under pre-existing conditions, and their salaries vary and depend on the decisions of local self-government units that are founding schools. Often, by restricting their rights, children who should be able to help the entire process of exercising their right to an assistant in child care and parents are very complicated, slow and uncertain, and is equally uncertain for the assistants themselves. There is little time here to list all the problems of this entire system, but the answer and solutions are offered and they are offered by those who know best what to do in order for children with developmental difficulties to enjoy the same right to education as their peers. The answers and solutions are offered by parents and children organized in associations together with assistants who help their children. Let's listen to them. It's often that we're sensitive to some questions only when they touch us personally, when we know and love someone who's been hit with a specific problem. And I'm saying this today for the most part for one Bep, a wonderful boy from Vis. However, while I recognize some of the Bep needs of the states, it must recognize the needs of each child and offer them a systematic solution. Bepo has great parents and support for his entire family, and despite the difficulties he has, he develops, learns and loves as much as any other child but needs help at school, he needs an assistant in the follow-up. His parents fought for it, but why does it have to be such a struggle, so stressful and frustrating process? Why is it necessary for teaching assistants to work in preliminary conditions, and this is about the most sensitive members of our society. If we really want to be a compassionate state that knows that it has both a legal and moral obligation to provide systematic support to its children, it is extremely important in the right way to regulate the interests of the assistants in the follow-up, to enable them to have adequate education for that interest, to employ them under conditions that are not over-excessive and discriminatory. They are entrusted with the needs of the most sensitive children in society, and we are not preparing them enough for such work, nor are we adequately valorizing them. We appeal from the Social Democrats Club don't have to protest again. We need them very much. We need the children of this country. Listen to the proposed solutions, let's be a country that can take care of all its children effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103137	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.02 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103138	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. You can do whatever you want, but you won't as long as you want is the only thing that's supposed to be ordered by the ruling clicks in Croatia right now. Everything's been evicted this week and that's good. It's good when the truth comes out because as the Bible says, the truth will set you free so that we know where we are, and then we know how we're going to go on. This week's constitutional court has been stamped out and controlled by rulings, declaring two questions unconstitutional, carried out an argumentative acrobatic that is so shallow and absurd that it does not deserve consideration, but should be read as a message. We were also sent a message to the citizens of Croatia, a message was sent to the Croatians. What message? A message from the ruling that they are ready to use all means, degrade and bring down all institutions to remain in power. The panic that deeply affected them testifys that getting off the force for them would not only be a mere transition to opposition, a democratic shift within the election cycle, but for many of them and their clientele would mean bankruptcy, and for some to go to prison. Despite the fact that the HDZ chief routinely telephones the chief state attorney and tells her who she shouldn't be dealing with, a team who, according to Plenkovic not so long ago, has nothing to do with Sanader's HDZ shortly after that statement began to pour some into prison, some under investigation on vacation, and some in the Parliament, Parliament as well... in which they stifle and wait for either prison, or rehabilitation. The fact that 400 people under almost impossible conditions sign a referendum doesn't mean anything to them. This referendum should have been prevented at all costs. Why? Because it would prove that most people did not approve of a framework which they had held for two years in a permanent state of emergency without a legitimate standoff in which the executive authority over the headquarters for which they themselves admitted that it did not consist at all in the full composition brought down the trio of authorities and de facto ruled regulations that would then be legalised in the Assembly as happened with the famous covid certificates. Meanwhile, people who do not budge from EU funds knowing how strong control they are there put past the Public Procurement Act and under the designation of secret procurement of covid equipment. It happened two years ago and two months ago. 2 years and 2 months since the earthquake in Zagreb and a year and a half of the Banovina earthquakes, nothing happens. At the end of the 19th century, at the time of August Shenoa, the reconstruction of Zagreb took place as a result of what was happening, it is not happening today. The minister ends up in prison who's supposed to deal with it and no one's got anything to do with it. No government resignation, no election call, no demand for new citizens' trust if they can get it. They put another who's a walking conflict of interest that bluffs to have a plan to speed up the renovation, and then on the resolution board says here it's going to be in a month. He hasn't shown it to anyone yet. On charges even though we have not planted on eyelashes as requested by Plenkovic, one is going on vacation to the CNB, one is coming to rest in the Assembly, and one is still unscheduled. Maybe your father's going on a business trip, too? The MiG-sized aircraft falls into the centre of Zagreb, there are explosives, there are no explosives, they are overrun over the hole and they say 100kg of explosives, and there are ridiculous fences that defend themselves on Mark's square. Shooting lemon cover in Croatia is an assassination that has been covered up for some reason, and a MiG-sized aircraft crash at the centre of the city is a small matter that is no longer spoken of. The NATO secretary-in-chief says she fell outside Zagreb and nothing to anyone, no one's denying him. Has anyone been responsible for this vessel flying so many NATO skies and falling in the middle of the capital of a Member State? No one. Banozic doesn't know anything about it today, but as Minister of State Property, he was much more pedantic, so he could ask you to unearth real estate that makes the state budget lose millions because there's someone else's stuff, he knows it in advance and nobody knows anything about it. No bottoms, no cheeks, no shame, no political responsibility. They'll stick to the teeth of the government as long as they can in all ways and using all the means. But he won't go as far as he wants. We'll be ready for the fall. We're not leaving the citizens in the wind. Obviously you don't understand that the private... referendum wasn't that... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103139	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement, speaking the esteemed representative of Ante Prkacin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in his free speech, Mr. Pupovac gave me a little attention, so it's okay to comment and say something. So the logic of things is such a Mr. Pupovac is primarily a representative of the Serb minority, including Serbian Orthodox churches, so he protects their interests or defends them if he feels threatened and needs to defend them from someone. Apparently, in my actions he recognized part of the danger or the threat, so he went into active defense military experts would say in a preventive attack on me, so I'm in a position now that I have black figures, I have to answer. But the truth is, that attack isn't exactly something extra intense, nor is there too much energy in it, so I'm going to defend myself more by comment than by counter-attack. So, Mr. Pupovac thinks that I'm attacking the Serb minority and the Orthodox church and in the first place he's wrong, and secondly he's right because I'm not attacking the Orthodox Church, but the Serbian Orthodox Church. And as for the Serb minority, the last man in this country, in this House, in this world to attack the Serb national minority, it's me. However, it may be that I was a little ominous, so I took the Serbs into the alliance at one time by making a comparison between the Croatian-Serbian coalition since 1905 and this one now said that the Trumbici and Supilo had taken the Serbs into the alliance because they were 24.5 percentage political forces. They needed Serbs to deal with Austrian Germans and Hungarians, and then Plenkovic took Serbs to deal with other Croats, as Serbs have three, four percent and have no political weight. I'm saying it might be that I was a little ominous, and today he says not to read it to me. As he said in the title of bringing minorities intolerable measures can be a dangerous national project. If I talked about it today, or if I stood up for it today, I'd be completely wrong. But I'm commenting on what happened in Flash and Storm. In Light and Storm they are reduced to the state they are today. As guilty as they and their leaders are, as much as the Croatian military would be able to talk about it but it is not the subject. So there's no talk about it, but apparently Mr. Pupovac has come into a position to force him to do his homework, because in this space it's a little harder to attack me. Then it enters even greater living mud where it says that I am spreading religious intolerance against Orthodox and Orthodox believers, etc. I'm trying to make a nightmare in Orthodoxism that was created at the end of 2002 when that scandalous, disastrous agreement of common interest between the Croatian state and the Serbian Orthodox Church was passed. I'm trying to revise it, and when it's revised it needs to be annulled because on the Croatian side, I've said it at least ten times. The 11th time I'm going, the minister I saw earlier took his cell phone to get back to me, so we can talk, so he can advise me, but I need to advise him because I know exactly what happened there. So, on the Croatian side, he signed the Prime Minister, and on the Serbian side, he signed the imaginary president of the non-existent Episcopal Council of the illegal Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, because look at the religious community records and you won't find a Serbian Orthodox church in Croatia. There are 4 hundred of any organisational forms, but the SPC in Croatia does not exist in the record. And that leak isn't random. Because if the Serbian Orthodox Church wanted them to be included in the records, but for this reason they would have to have their statute here, they would have to have their treasure here and they would have to recognise Croatia's state. They don't want it and that's what I'm talking about. But unfortunately, there's something else I have to say. So, sir, there's something to talk about what I've been saying for days. But it's better for Mr. Pupovac, Milosevic that's how it is, you're a nice guy to me, it's better for Mr. Pupovac to stay in this position, this situation to be protected by Andrej Plenkovic gentlemen than for them to defend themselves from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103517	And the next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103518	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Last Friday, in the Assembly, I followed free speeches and was surprised by the amount of chauvinism recited from this pay phone as if it were a poem. It is approximately grateful to God that the Serbs are gone, that there are as many as we can bear. I could talk about the invaluable contribution of Serbs in every aspect of Croatian society all day, so invaluable. Croatia would not be what it is today without that contribution, but I will talk about it another time. The theme of the talk was also the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is regularly taken as a topic. Its existence is denied, its activities are declared hostile, the signed Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is disputed, and the treaty signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is identical with contracts and other religious communities, identical with the Islamic Community in the Republic of Croatia and with the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Croatia and with the reformed Christian Church in the Republic of Croatia and with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the Republic of Croatia and the Macedonian Orthodox Church in Croatia. But only the Serbian Orthodox Church is a problem. On the contrary, the Croatian Orthodox Church and its archbishop are constantly called. Only who is the archbishop of the non-existent Croatian Orthodox Church? Is this Jelisej Lalatovic, an excommunicated Orthodox priest who was brought 10 years ago by a certain late Ivo Matanović who saw the opportunity to be at the head of a church in Zadar, or is that Bonifiation as he says the archbishop is the archbishop of Zagreb and the Metropolitan of the Croatian Orthodox Church. Bonifiations which I say is a Catholic Croat, but lays the right to the Croat Orthodox or is a Bulgarian citizen Ivanov, also brought by Matanović to Croatia, who claims that on his initiative he declared the Holy Son of the European Orthodox Church of the Patriarch Germogen, the patriarch of the Croatian Orthodox Church during the NDH sacred. So he sees nothing wrong with that Germogen heritage for NDH's sake. During '42. Under pressure from Germany, Pavelic is trying to alleviate politics towards Serbs and is establishing a Croatian Orthodox Church. Until the day, more than 200 Orthodox priests killed Ustaša, including the Metropolitan of Dabrobosanski Peter Zimonjic and the Bishop of Gornjakarlova and the Metropolitan of Zagreb Dosite, who was imprisoned and tortured and of these consequences died. The Episcope was therefore murdered and banished, the clergy killed, the others managed to escape to be saved. On these foundations Germogen is building with Pavelic the church which is now being called here. Honestly, it's hard for me to understand. It's really hard for me to understand. Finally, I would like to point out that last weekend has been marked a hundred years since the unification of the local diocese of Vienna in the unique Serbian Orthodox Church in Sremski Karlovci. I would congratulate Patriarch Porphyri on that great jubilee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103553	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, thank you very much, the respected representative Michel Jaksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103554	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So, in the 1980s, the debate began for the first time and some writing about the fast road to Koprivnica and then Djurdjevac, the Hungarian border. Given how long this debate is going on, how long this story is going on, I'm really not going to talk about the parties today, or the people who took part in these stories, but I'm just going to make a short cut of how it went and where we are today with a clear questionnaire on where it's going to take us in the future today and what we can expect not to get back into a situation where we've had a tape on something that's been promising for 40 years. As mentioned in the 1980s, it was clear in the 1990s that war was a situation, much more was said about the need to connect Croatia and for the very relationship, but also because of the tourism itself and of course that one about a small road towards Koprivnica, Djurđevec and Hungary was not so important and there was nothing to be done immediately. In the early 2000s or late 1990s and in the early 2000s we get the situation that the road stops following the corridor of the railway that is being worked on, which passes through Koprivnica and goes to Hungary rather than transferring Varazdin, Čakovec and there further to the Hungarian border, which is commendable again because it is better to build than not to have roads to the Republic of Croatia. 2009 We have since then, Prime Minister Sanader, a big opening ceremony on the road towards Koprivnica, but apart from opening the works, it turns out that it was also on the lease, not on the purchased country for the fast road, nothing happened. There are very many plans left, very many ideas, very many good wishes and promises but it hasn't moved from a dead spot almost nothing. We are entering the SDP zone of the government that did not finish it, the opening of part of the fast road was made by the HDZ government and 2016. That fast road got to the Cross. From 2016 to today, it's been six years without getting a single meter of fast road. Several governments have changed, a country-funded strategy has changed, several sets of parliamentary MPs have changed, not only from Koprivnica-križevci County but from the 2nd electoral unit, but in those six years no shift has been made, I repeat, not one centimetre. What we finally welcomed a year ago, a year and a half ago, a slight launch of the activity and a clear definition through budget documents and plans for the work to continue along one path towards Koprivnica through the Vojakovci Kloštar, followed by the Hungarian border Đurđevac, along the second route towards Bjelovar. According to the knowledge we have from the Registrar, these contracts have been signed, signed a year and a few days ago, but after that we are entering a phase as is the case with Croatian public procurement, a few complaints, and return, and re-determination and the month is lost. And we finally welcomed this year where we were convinced that these meters would start to come true, but now we're supposed to have a problem with inflation, even though it's been there a little longer than we're talking about it now, and now we're having a misunderstanding about how to agree and how to clear up with a contractor to even get into that construction site and start building these very fast roads to Koprivnica and Bjelovar. So I'm using this opportunity because we know that it's all gathered, we know that the government has found many items in the budget additional funds for many other projects, that, as was the means to connect with Dalmatia, to connect with Slavonia, for the need of access roads to the Pelješko bridge, all what this country really needs to find is also a few of these additional kunas for the follow-up of the fast road towards Koprivnica, according to Bjelovar. Because if we respect the power of our economy led by Podrav, if we respect the strength of our new University of the North and the universities of Bjelovar and the many other institutions we have in the area of the region then I believe that it can be respectable and honored through the fast road that I repeat, the story, has been wanting for almost 40 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103725	On behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103726	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On Saturday we celebrated the 100th birthday of HZMO and I am from a few winners of recognition for the development of the Croatian Pension System and HZMO. Of course, after the age of 25. indirect and direct dealing with retirement issues and problems that fills me with satisfaction, but I didn't come today for this pay phone to brag about this confession because it would be very inappropriate because I'm happy that I've worked for people all my age and I want to dedicate this confession to them. I dedicate this recognition to the largest Croatian family, family of Croatian pensioners, my family and all my associates. I dedicate this confession to those who are not among us today, and they have fulfilled my life in believing in the wisdom of the elderly who did not leave me today, this faith today and today lives in me, who taught me and pointed to problems and solutions, and I am essentially one lucky man that I have had such an opportunity to live and work with the elderly as the youngest among them. Thank you for their trust. I dedicate this confession to all my voters in the 8th electoral unit who supported me in six election cycles and who believed in the outcomes of what I promised before the elections that it would be realized. Thank you to all those who kept counting on what I'm going to say for this pay phone and in front of people because words are important, people recognize us by word, people are bound by words, people remember, they remember words. Thank you to all the professional associates who knew this profession and who came in with their hearts open and told us what the problem was and offered to look together for solutions. I also dedicate this to the representatives of all six constituencies in which I participate both in the opposition and in the position because I was in different situations, to all those who have signed bill proposals, who voted in favour of certain laws, who have constructively participated in the debates that all aspects of the problems are brought to light, the problems of the pensioners. I also dedicate this confession to those critics who systematically destroyed the unity of the retired Corps with incoherent ideas and I don't know by telling fairy tales and telling stories that one man can solve a lot of things. It can't, nobody can. So I dedicate this recognition to them, too, because they have influenced my decisions, to my decisions to persist in solving in any way in solving the problem of the pensioners. And for the end of my address after two major projects that I've been involved in in the 19 years I've been in, and that's a debt return to the pensioners and that famous supplement that everyone enjoys after 2009 would be 27% for so much less pension at the moment, so before us a little optimism for the end, we have a third big project ahead of us, and in these previous two there have always been satisfied who have been silent and dissatisfied who have been loud. I hope that we will have a happy and resolute ministry and governments and I that we have a project where indeed all family pensioners will win. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103767	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative Damir Bajs will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103768	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer on behalf of the Focus Club and independent representatives to one topic that is important for all of us in Croatia. "To travel means to live," said Hans Christian Andersen, he is a Danish fairytale writer and when he said he meant, of course, the journey of life, but in the Republic of Croatia the saying can refer to travel in rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. This means that at this moment it is questionable whether our fellow citizens, especially those of the third age living outside of Zagreb, outside the large centres, living in villages and settlements, will have an opportunity which is guaranteed by the constitution, which is transportation. In fact, we now have a decision on whether public service in road transport will be resolved for that part of Croatia. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision in which it has provided 428 million kuna to finance 85% of the total public transport and, of course, that carriers serve with residents who are in public road transport and regular students, however, there is one small problem, which is that at the moment when we talk about Croatia only two counties have signed the contract. We know that there are problems, a question with whom to sign, whether to go to a public tender or to give the basis of acquired rights, in which way to enable line transportation? I will say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must enter into the solution to this problem, so it must resolve the issue of transport. We know, of course, that carriers are now in a difficult situation and regular line and extraordinary because of the price of fuel, accumulated losses and all that it carries. But what does it mean for our fellow citizens who live in the North, who live somewhere in Bania or live on islands? This means that if, since the situation has changed, they no longer have someone in the house with them who has a car, they can no longer go to any centre, whether it is Bjelovar, whether it is Pozega or some other place and that they have to trust themselves because the buses are not already driving much of Croatia to their friends or paying for a taxi. How much a pensioner can afford, can he only trust his friends, that's something the state shouldn't allow, and where they're actually going, what's the need for that? Well it is necessary not to experience life, but for real life opportunities, and this means that they go to the doctor, to go to the notary, to solve certain things, to have a purchase for maybe a whole month and when this moment is announced that the transport will stop throughout the Republic of Croatia, when 18 counties did not sign it then, regardless of the decision that has not been implemented, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take additional steps. I must say that here I am in the county assembly of my Bjelovar County on a number of issues raised there is this possibility or inability to move perhaps in Zagreb at all, but outside Zagreb is a necessary living need, I was told that it is questionable whether the ministry and that the mayors are waiting for whether the ministry and the government will meet their obligation to co-finance and how it will all work. I asked Minister Butkovic's parliamentary question to see if it would be respected if it was already questionable, and I don't think it should be questionable, to make sure that it works and to look at the example of these two counties, in which way I must say it to them, whether it's a public tender, whether it's a direct contract, but for our fellow citizens, for grandparents, but also for younger people in our province or in the rural area as well as how nice it is said it is quite no matter if the bus doesn't come. Therefore traveling means living, in Croatia there is no fairy tale or allegory, it is a reality that can not happen or that travel is not possible for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u103769	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111677	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work on the plan: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Infrastructure for Alternative Fuels, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 228 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I'd like to pray, and no, but we'll still have a few requests for a break before the motion is presented. First call from a colleague named Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111678	Thank you very much. Mr. President of HS, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS of 10 minutes to further consult and highlight some things. It's not the infrastructure itself, or for now it's still a problem, but I hope it won't be. I think it is necessary to solve the cause first, and only after that, and the reason is that in Croatia the main problem is insufficient electricity production, and this is not solved by imports, but by increasing production from alternative sources. And every year we import several billion kuna electricity, the forecast that we have a dry year ahead, the hydropower plants will probably work almost certainly with a much lower capacity, otherwise they're not used enough because of the outdated technology in them, and what are we doing? Wouldn't it be wiser to invest in electricity production in households themselves in total voltage systems, family houses, residential buildings, holiday homes for tourists, etc. On the other hand, I hear that Germany has doubled incentives to buy electric cars, and the trend is very clear there will be more and more electric cars on our roads. What are we doing? Wouldn't it be wise to further encourage and co-finance the charging systems in the family houses themselves, not only those big chargers but also small ones, but especially those in holiday homes, in houses for accommodation tourists so-called. destination Chargers that would charge huge consumption in the peak season at big chargers. Then we'd have a round story because let's not forget that even with existing electricity production at some point in the season we're already at the capacity limit, or we're being converted into production itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111679	The apartment is approved. I'm assuming the same request for a break is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111680	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Mosta Club means that I'm talking about how and in what way alternative fuels are installed in the infrastructure, that means a attribution of the EU directive, and that's what I've often said and coordinated. However, I would also point out here that energy is too expensive in the Republic of Croatia and that we have alternative energy opportunities. In the last term, the bridge gave the Microsolars Act where we would resolve energy independence before all our families, mainly socially endangered because Croatia invested more than half a billion kunas for energy-hazarded families, which is local, which is regional, which is a country that provides through social assistance. If only we could invest these funds a year, we could solve a large number of these people, which would result in independent energy families. Obviously, monopolies don't respond to us having independent families because simply the one who's addicted can be controlled. And we have so much potential to literally Maribor city in Slovenia more products than the sun energy than Croatia, the whole of Croatia. So that potential, and we mainly say it's in the roofs, we don't use it. And I suggest once again that no matter what we talk about now, i.e. This will be the inclusion of the eu directive, it's the copying of the law, we raise our hand here in fact we haven't solved anything, and our energy potentials we don't have, and that's solar energy. And what we used through the wind and the wind power plants you see is that we pay more than gold. So we give who knows who it encourages to see only Krsh-Passed and numerous wind power plants what happened with it being pure crime, corruption. And much damage has been done to our citizens' energy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] So once again, let's use our solar energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111681	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? If he doesn't, then we'll continue to work in accordance with article. 293.b., so I will now call on the applicant to present the final proposal for that law on behalf of the proposed state secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111682	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and in my personal name. The final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the infrastructure for alternative fuels is amended and supplemented. The existing legal framework for the development of vehicle infrastructures using alternative fuels for propulsion. The legal framework for the use of alternative fuels in transport and the development of infrastructure for the same which is in force was adopted by the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels NN No. 120/2016 In accordance with current available technologies, and taking into account the existing legal framework on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, alternative fuels used in transport include electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and natural gas. The objective is to develop alternative fuel infrastructure as a prerequisite for their use in transport in order to achieve sustainable market and transport system development on the basis of them, and to achieve a lower, or minimal, negative impact on the environment and society. This bill ensures harmonisation with EU regulation, creating a prerequisite for providing better quality service to alternative fuel users through the establishment of an alternative fuel charger register, market development through the establishment of a transparent comparison system for alternative fuel prices. In view of the recent introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, double regulation of infringement provisions has been proposed in kunas until the introduction of the euro, and in euro after the introduction of the euro. This draft law transposes the provisions of the legal property of the EU, which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to apply as a member from alternative fuels. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the infrastructure for alternative fuels will prescribe and add to the existing provisions. Provisions on places for charging L-models, motorcycles, light four-cycles and four-cycles, provisions on the supply of electricity from land for inland waterway vessels, provisions on the supply of hydrogen to road transport vehicles and provisions on the supply of natural gas to vehicles participating in road and water transport. In order to better inform users as well as to monitor the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, the draft law provides for the establishment of a refuelling register for alternative fuels and their management. The component of the register is the application of a single system of labelling operators and chargers at EU level. This includes the definition of the format, content and location for the provision of information on chargers based on a methodology agreed at EU level. In real time, the registry will provide information on the locations of the charger, the price of the charger and the busyness of the charger. The conditions for the establishment of a register will be governed by a rule to be prepared after the adoption of the law. The establishment of a register is funded by the EU in 80% of the amount. The law introduces an obligation to show information for comparison between the corresponding unit prices of all types of fuel in publicly available supply and refuelling sites. This will allow for a more transparent demonstration of fuel prices at fuel supply stations, which will also increase awareness of drivers, suppliers and... when buying road vehicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provision of information at gas stations will be carried out in accordance with the methodology adopted by the European Commission. The financing of the methodology for comparing fuel prices is also financed by the European Commission. The final objective of the bill is not to add to the financial burden of the state budget and regional and local authorities, but to equate the technical specifications of the charging and supply stations to alternative fuels in order to be compatible with all vehicle technologies, and to allow the uninterrupted use of the vehicle to alternative fuels throughout the EU in the times to come. In order to implement the draft amending and supplementing laws on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructures, it will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor in the budgets of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The Proposer updated the Final Bill proposal taking into account the planned introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to use the so-called model. double regulation of infringement provisions in such a way that one article provides fines in kunas which are in force until the day of introduction of the euro and the other Article prescribed fines in euro which will be in force from the day of introduction of the euro. After the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Infrastructure for Alternative Fuels under Article '81. The Republic of Croatia and Article 187(5) of the Constitution The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, at the 10th session of the 25th February 2022, reached a conclusion that adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the infrastructure for alternative fuels, and all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate were addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law after the first reading in the Croatian Parliament and the reasons why these differences arised The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Fuels Act has 13 instead of 12 articles, as a new article of the fourth was added between the two readings. On the text of the draft law, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee stressed the need for nomotechnical completion of certain provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law has been extended by the Proposer to the provision of Article 1(3) which also changes to the field of work protection, the area of fire protection and technological explosions, the area of incendiary fluids and gases. The above areas are key to ensuring assumptions for the safety of human beings and plants. The applicant added a new Article 4 of the final draft law which amended Article 4(10) which corrected the call for a provision concerning the production of a report on the implementation of the NOP. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, the need to refer through the final proposal for a law to comply with the provisions governing the supply systems for motor vehicles with pressured natural gas SPP, as well as the rules governing the ingested oil gas, as referred to in Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, has been observed and is set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Seven. Final bill. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8. Final draft law, Art. 7. Proposal for a law to be added to Article 7. 9, and St. 1. is divided into several items, new items 6 and 7. The applicant has updated the Article. 11. The final draft law taking into account the planned introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to use the so-called model. a double regulation of infringement provisions, taking into account the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, the applicant added an article. 14 The final draft of the law, which provides for a transitional and final provision relating to the introduction of the euro. Proposals, observations and opinions given on the draft law after the first reading in HS, which the applicant did not accept and the reason why not, were two observations at the February 10th session, representative of Mrs. Taritas led the debate on why administrative supervision of law enforcement is in the power of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, inspection in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Namely, art. 76. The electricity market law provides for provisions on the integration of electricity in the electricity network so that the Ministry of Energy is carrying out administrative supervision of the implementation and of this law. Furthermore, as part of the work of the Energy Ministry, the implementation of the Energy Development Strategy by the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050, as well as the preparation of a proposal for a Croatian hydrogen strategy from 2021 to 2050. The Ministry of Energy shall manage the development of the electricity network, as well as the development of the infrastructure for the production, transmission and distribution of alternative fuels, and shall, in accordance with the abovementioned logic, be responsible for the energy ministry. As the law establishing alternative fuel infrastructure applies exclusively to transport infrastructure, inspection supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for transport infrastructure. Furthermore, in a debate at the HS session, MP Zeljko Pavić stated that the draft law was approached at a time when the EU Council of Workers discussed the proposal for an EU Regulation of Parliament and of the Council on the introduction of alternative fuel infrastructures and repealing Directive 94 of 2014. The EU, the EU of Parliament and of the Council, and the law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels will again need to be amended. In this regard, the Proposer points out that we live in dynamic times when technological and digital changes need to be continuously updated and regulated through changes to legal regulations. At EU level, the Directive mentioned 5 years after being in force in the Member States is planned to be fully put into effect. The proposer shall endeavour to adapt to all technological and digital changes in accordance with the available budgets. Finally, the aim of the bill is not to additionally burden the state budget and regional and local authorities, but to level the technical specifications of the charging and supply stations with alternative fuels in order to be compatible with all vehicle technologies and to allow the uninterrupted use of the vehicle to alternative fuels throughout the EU in the times to come. In order to implement the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Act, it will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the national budgets of the Republic of Croatia or in the budgets of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. I believe that all the proposed measures will contribute and establish infrastructures for alternative fuels, as well as enable users to use them more effectively. Following all the above, I propose the adoption of this Act in HS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111683	You can stay Secretary of State because we have 18 replicas. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111684	Secretary of State, alternative fuels described by law, i.e. which is the obligation that we must fulfil under the EU directive, not that we must, but it is simply nice to boast. But I'm interested in reality. I'll give you an example. The bus owners of Mate Junovic, Promet Sinj, are 40 years old, here this morning they say children cannot reach school, are often set on fire, and we are talking about alternative fuels. If it wasn't just the driver's abilities, how old are the buses, those kids would lose their lives. How can you allow buses older than the Bible to carry our student children? I've talked about it countless times here in Parliament and you and the minister who isn't very often to come here and listen to the truth, whatever alternative fuels, buses literally on the garrison, on coal, Every day, a bus is set on fire and we carry our children in it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111685	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111686	In any case, with the Ministry of Education, we also take care of the quality of the bus and we bring the rules that go in that direction to make as high-quality buses as possible in those who carry children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111687	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111688	Thank you very much. The secretary hurt his ankle. Rules of Procedure 238, where he demeaned the representative because he spoke, I'll be gentle, I'll be a lie. Buses older than the Bible than Mate Junovic. Whomever he holds for what and who's in that kosara wheel he holds for something and never lets go, I won't talk about it. But this morning the bus stopped at 40 with the kids. A few weeks ago, a bus burned down. Every week the bus burns, do you understand what I'm saying? The children and their lives are at risk. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111689	A colleague, my friend Bulj. You could have said that in a replica and you could have said it both in your own statement and in the name of the club and individually, and this is now a violation of the Rules of Procedure so... You win. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree it's true, but you've hurt your rules of procedure and you're getting a warning. My colleagues, Vucilović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111690	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. What you're saying is very nice in accordance with the eu directives, but as my colleague Bulj said, one thing that comes to the assembly is what Europe says, and reality is something else. We from your ministry often hear about the renaissance of railways that will last for eight years, and in the end we see that it will seem to last over 100 years as long as it has lasted, since you are not even able to carry out public procurement properly, so you are constantly falling in competitions, specifically for the shares of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac. But my question is going to be concrete because now you're all this nice told us that it's the future, that it's working on it, so why are the three factories in Croatia that were diesel are all three closed and preserved, and we are so following Europe and these green policies and we are investing very much now in infrastructure, and we have three bio diesel factories that are closed and preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111691	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111692	In any case, we've made huge shifts in electric vehicles and infrastructures to charge electric vehicles. These three factories are private, I find it difficult to talk about the reasons why they are in such a state and why they do not work, but we are not at the bottom of Europe, but at the top or middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111693	Now it's my colleague Kirin's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111694	Honorable President, Your Honor. The EU Parliament is 2018. adopted a Resolution on the introduction of alternative fuel infrastructure into the EU, it also noted that transport has been one of the main sectors of the EU economy since the 1990s. increase greenhouse gas emissions. Please ask the question, will the chargers or the opening of a charger for alternative fuels be so that the chargers, especially on the highways, fit into the charging stations on fossil fuels or will new locations be shared so that it doesn't turn out that we have such chargers on the marine goods, but also why not when in that space today we have all kinds of things or other facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111695	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111696	Well, they can and don't have to be at the same locations. So where at the same locations there's a possibility of building up, that's where they're going to be upgraded, but they're going to be autonomously set up. And they have the criteria regarding the highways you mentioned already on every 50 km of highway you have the ability to charge electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111697	Here you go, Comrade Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111698	Thank you very much, President HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. According to the European Environment Agency, the largest part of the total greenhouse gas emissions, or even more than 71.8% of road waste, is reported. For this reason, HS adopted a hydrogen strategy in March this year in order to transfer its economy to renewable hydrogen, but also to electricity and other alternative fuels. Happy to open production of electric cars and cars on hydrogen in Čakovec except Auto Rimac. My question is about the strategy, we took over over over the next three years the production of a million of that renewable hydrogen, but also by NPO in the next three years to build a 10 charge room. So we're ready and do we already have those capacities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111699	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111700	... The distribution of hydrogen in the transport sector is worth around 200 million kuna, so it is under way with the realisation of the assumption that it can work. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111701	Now they're going to be replicating counterpart Bačić Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111702	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. And with these changes, even though we have had a few more laws in recent months that have followed an ambitious plan, the European Commission's green plan is just about reducing CO2 emissions by 2035, but also the introduction of alternative fuels, I have two questions just to hear your thinking and thinking of the ministry itself, and there is a concern that we are a little behind on the strength of the power grid both in certain cities and on the A1 highway itself so that all future chargers will not be able to quickly charge new vehicles and new batteries? And the second question, we know that the total number of electric vehicles in the Republic to about 0.17% of the total number of motor vehicles, and we took an ambitious plan to increase it by 2030-2035 to 16%. Is the ministry, with certain incentives, doing any more subsidies to increase the number of electric vehicles?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111703	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111704	So good subsidies are foreseen through NPOO now not to speak amounts and figures from one side and develop the technologies of unmanned vehicles and autonomous vehicles until they co-finance the purchase of vehicles with nearly 300 million kuna. So all means go that way and that possibility rises. As far as the network itself and the power of the network is concerned, our goal is exactly how strong the chargers are set, but this depends on the electricity system, which is not the power of this ministry but the economy ministry, but we are working together most closely, and we are creating these assumptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111705	Comrade Pavlike, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111706	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Do you know how many public chargers we currently have for electric vehicles throughout Croatia that are operational? And how do you get to that since 1.1. this year, an increasing number of chargers charge charge charge, so one average charger of 50 kWh on a public charger is as much as 250 kuna? This just shows that simply this share that the colleague mentioned from 0.17% of electric cars in total road traffic will certainly not increase but even decrease because it is quite expensive energy for the end-user.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111707	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111708	...the last data we had was about 600 locations, and then still at each of those locations by a couple of connections. But I'm saying it's living tissue every day that increases and develops that number.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111709	My colleagues, the Dark Taritash. Just before that, my colleague Pavliche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111710	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. State Secretary did not answer this second question, and this is what to do with it since it is charged on all public charging stations almost at all and that it amounts to 250 kuna for an average battery in electronic...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111711	A colleague, Pavliček, is not a breach of the rules of procedure, the secretary of state answered what he replied is not a category of breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's his responsibility, but I can't let you do that right now. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111712	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're actually talking about chargers that are in your ministry's jurisdiction, but you'll also see in the debates on behalf of the club and individually, and we'll actually lead the main debate on how to fill those chargers or better said than where the energies and everything else. But what I'm going to ask you is this. There's a fashion that's started, and in the past session, it's been continued here so that things you don't solve by law, and we're transferring the relative changes to regulations. Well, any changes to the law don't make the number of regulations fall, but the number of regulations rises. You here, among other things, have through the provision of an article added. 9. and two new regulations that should be made so you decided on two new regulations and the new regulations will be passed by the minister, so I'm curious at what stage, you have prepared them, you have made them, have they been in a public debate and are we ready to be the whole package then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111713	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111714	... The law and they're getting ready. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111715	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111716	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We could talk for hours about problems in the transport sector, and I'll only mention one very life-threatening problem, and that's a fat train delay at the Koprivnica-Zagreb route and that's usually between 20 and 40 minutes, which is why people are late for work, and they're paying for hundreds of kuna tickets. However, when we talk about this law, we are, in fact, harmonising our regulation with the European Regulation and the European Directive of 2014, but last time I mentioned that in the middle of 2021, the European Commission published a new proposal to create a new regulation for the infrastructure of alternative fuels that should take effect already this year. I wonder if the ministry is preparing to comply with this new proposal, or are we going to wait a few years again to coordinate with the latest proposal? Have you considered implementing some of the provisions of this proposal, even though it has not yet come into force with our legislation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111717	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111718	We did not implement the future because in the future we do not yet know nor do we have official, but normally we participate in the work of the commission and predict what we do and we will definitely go through the end of the year with the changes and with the new... in making so that we can coordinate everything that will come out of the new regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111719	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111720	Dear secretary, in your presentation, you said that 200 million kuna was reserved for the construction of the infrastructure for the supply of chargers. When we had a debate about the bill's first reading, I asked the secretary if she was getting ready and whether she was thinking about putting more hydrogen chargers on the coast, it means that the preparations and the boats and marinas for the chargers are being watered. In fact, we are a tourist country, probably very likely that tourists and guests will be coming soon with new vehicles that will have hydrogen-powered vehicles or have hydrogen-based engines, and they are not planned or planned to have only one and only one on Vis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111721	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111722	Through all our documents are provided and in marinas means on maritime roads, as well as on freshwater waterways setting up filling stations, including hydrogen in certain ports. And the electric chargers from the land for the vehicles are provided in all our documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111723	Here you go, fellow Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111724	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. According to the European Automotive Manufacturers’ Association of 2021. electrical hybrid vehicles or vehicles having zero and reduced greenhouse gas emissions account for 37.6% of all new cars registered in the EU area. It can be read from the same data that 63% more electric cars were sold in 2021 than it was in 2020. Whether it is in Croatia or not, but Croatia is a small market, but we know that Croatia is a tourist country that is in a large part and a car destination. What is the situation now in these magistrateal directions and tourist destinations, and what does it look like? Because I think we need to make hasty access to the construction of that infrastructure because these cars will come to our area as desirable as we expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111725	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111726	Well, well, just indicative means on our roads there are now 16,000 hybrid vehicles about 3,000 something over 3,000 electric. As far as charging points are concerned, 2.3 places are 100 km of charging roads, and the percentage of vehicles that are electric on those roads is 1.9, so they are not big, but compared to other European countries are not even small percentages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111727	Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111728	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I come from a region that is largely designated, from Istria, is not transitory, of which 85% of the guests come to cars and I am interested in your opinion of one of our proposals that the state should urgently start co-financing, with the promotion of small chargers at the very location of accommodation so-called. The destination of the Charger's less power, it's about 7.7 kW of chargers that would discharge the entire system. We have major problems in the peak season and Sam Plomin is somewhere at maximum capacity at the moment we have the spic. A lot of these, so without the extra rent of power, a lot of these chargers would actually solve it, that would be a night charge when they're less, less tariffs, etc., so I'm interested in your opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111729	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111730	Well, I said we're working very closely with the Ministry of Economy, i.e. with the energy sector in that ministry, and we're here and we're getting data that somewhere almost 80% of the vehicle is just filling up on such chargers and we're going to do everything and encourage them to be as large as possible in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111731	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111732	Mr Secretary, the EU has adopted Directive 2018/138/EC. 199/18 requiring the Republic of Croatia to amend its law allowing citizens of the Republic of Croatia to produce electricity from solar plants for personal purposes only. In this House, we also voted on the ministry of Mr. Coric, who has left, has committed himself to the next term, which is now the 4th year. 60 thousand solar units are installed in Croatia, which would be about 10% less imports of electricity than Croatia currently imports. After 4 years. Only 3,000 solar units have been installed in Croatia. I'm curious, since he can't resist because he doesn't have enough hands and the ruling has no will, who's monitoring the ministry's work outcomes on the obligations of the documents they've taken over?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111733	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111734	All right, all I can say again is that it's the Ministry of Economy's intelligence, but as far as our ministry is concerned, we encourage everywhere that is possible with infrastructure facilities that allow such facilities, among other things such a similar project is being prepared at the Zagreb airport.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111735	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111736	Thank you, my dear...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111737	Pardon the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111738	Thank you, Secretary, I understand you're from another ministry, but you're still one government, and at least it should work amongst the ministry, but as you interpret...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111739	What were you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111740	I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111741	And what's been hurt, you're replicating now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111742	Don't come in on me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111743	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111744	Okay, the breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Secretary of State didn't answer my question and he said it wasn't his ministry. There's a co-ordination between the ministries and the secretary of state who, for example, at the Ministry of Economy is 12 years old. in that position... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111745	Thank you very much, fellow Vrkljan. Comrade Vrkljan, time's up and you're getting, you're getting, you're getting a warning, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111746	Well, you ate my time. Well, you ate my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111747	No, I'm not, I've released 15 seconds more, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the warning, my colleague, and you're answering now whether or not you were, not now is colleague Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111748	Thank you, Honorable President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I think we should first realize that the network of chargers that we have at this point in the Republic is enough for what we need, that it can be better, it can be better, it can be working to make it better, so you do. Together with the Ministry of Economy, you have provided 200 million kuna incentives to build a filling room, which means that the total investment in the coming time for the chargers would be perhaps 400 million if only 200 million incentives. So we have to say that at a time when there's no tourism you can pass past the charge room every day and not meet a car to be filled there, it's a real state when there's no tourists. When we have those specks, then we only have a problem on the main routes, but for those big spikes, so we could build another parallel highway if we don't have the spic, but we don't build it, so with the chargers, we need to be optimal at building that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111749	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111750	Ha can only agree with the good part of the finding. Thus, the number of chargers certainly satisfys the number of vehicles we have. What we are working on is to strengthen the capacity of individual charging stations, and that depends on the energy grid and we are doing it in cooperation with the energy sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111751	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111752	Dear Secretary of State, here you have said that we have 3,000 electric cars, otherwise for the Croatian public we have about 2.3 million cars on the roads, so that's modest. Now, in order for us to achieve that ultimate goal, which is to move on to new energy, we need to have more electric cars, one of the conditions is chargers, 600 sounds good, but it's crucial that we have more cars, when the demand for chargers is greater, there will be private initiatives. So it's crucial, it's not the subject of the law, but it's crucial to subsidize electric cars. The average electric car is too expensive for the average Croatian citizens, so this is what is a key problem and would like to work on it because today buys a car of 60 or 70 thousand euros that can be made without charging distances from Zagreb to Split is impossible for 99 or 95% of Croatian citizens, so subsidies for electric cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111754	So that's why it's planned through the NPOO just subsidizing the purchase of electric cars so that ultimately the price is accessible to the citizens. That's what we're working on, and we're sure that these goals that we're declaring here will be achieved in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111755	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111756	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You say that Croatia is a tourist country and 22 million vehicles enter Croatia in the best times of the tourist season, and even on the trail of what Mr. Totgergeli said, we have this problem. We have 0.17% of all electric cars, Europe will probably have many, many more in front of them in years, and will certainly be a problem with filling these vehicles, this strategy that is revealed in this bill is certainly good, but it also agrees with these alternative solutions that these little chargers that would be practically domestic would make it important, significantly easier to make the whole situation easier because I'm afraid that at some point we'll have more electric vehicles and other vehicles on other drives, and we won't have any way of supplying them with the energy they spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111757	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111758	So for this reason, this possibility of filling both houses and edge houses in open spaces exists even the possibility and this is being declared and prepared as a realistic option for public lighting candelabras in parking lots to install connections for this type of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111759	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111760	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, I may be running from the core of the subject itself, but as you well know, a few years ago the gasification of Dalmatia actually came to Dupolje and in the first stage was a focus towards larger economic operators and larger institutions, so today, for example, in the Split-Dalmatia County KBC has gas supplies, as well as some schools, here, this helped me confirm Mr. Andro Krstulović Opera, former mayor. I am interested in what extent these large consumers are connected to the pipeline and what will happen to the second phase for the Cetina region, we know that this has been mentioned and that there have been promises to join after the first phase if there is sufficient interest in the Cetina region as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111761	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111762	So Andro, as far as Split's coverage is concerned, will certainly respond better than I do, but in Split, the main economic operators are connected to the pipeline, including the Split hospital and the Split shipyard and Lora. Normally, the ultimate goal is to connect as many people as possible and first raise awareness with these residents that they are looking for a gas connection, then create technical assumptions that this is being solved. But the pipeline from Split goes further towards Imotski, on the other hand, normally that Sinj is close to that pipeline, is not 10 km away, if I am not mistaken, about 10 km away and will certainly make a connection to Sinj, especially in the first phase towards the Kukuzovac economic zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111763	Now after Brcica goes Brkan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111764	I would like to thank the President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You've already answered my imaginary question. Basically everything about the strategy, Croatia's hydrogen strategy until 2050, which we adopted here in the Parliament on 25 March, and now one thing about the charging room is being led in road, in transport and road and maritime, the strategy provides for 100 charging stations by 2050. It is also predicted that 23.8 billion kuna will be spent by 2050. It will say 49 million kuna a year. What I'm interested in right now. This was a strategy, is there now any operational plans that are integrated into the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Establishment of Alternative Fuel Infrastructure and can we now start to build and spend that money, meaning 49 million kuna annually until 2050?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111765	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111766	Through the Operational Recovery and Resistance Plan, it means '22-26. 353 million kunas are provided and they start to be spent, spent on the production of renewable hydrogen, the construction of a 10 megawatt electrolyser and the establishment of infrastructure with 6 hydrogen chargers and hydrogen distribution infrastructures in the transport sector, means the implementation of this to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111767	Thank you, Secretary of State. All the replicas have passed, so you can go back to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First in line, Representatives' Club of the Bridge, dear fellow Bully, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111768	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I would like to come sometimes and Minister Oleg Butkovic, we are from the same ends, we know the problems of our neighborhoods, and this topic of alternative fuels is simply copying a directive, but I would talk more, it's nice to talk about hydrogen, about infrastructure, about gas, about vehicles that are literally driving around the universe, but let's go back a little reality. I would just say it for a little while, and that's what I said in the replica and hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't have another way, but here I can show it a little bit more. We're talking about alternative fuels at the time of a week when a bus full of students in the Cetina region and I've talked about it countless times. Currently this morning I got from Trilja's message through Whatsapp, the man took pictures of the bus, I can send it to you, I simply can't go to school from Trilj to Sinj and Split and thus simply the high school students in this way, the dici is disabled, but this morning, there is no burning bus. However, we often have a problem with the burning of buses, and the county gives permission to these inter-locals to Mati Jujnović Transport Makarska i.e. Transport Sinj because he usurped the Car Transport Sinj with the help of structures that were in the county then in the state and took over the Car Transport Sinj, did not meet any obligation, but I here would speak crucially about it and I said that this is like the Kozarak wheel, every dance, everyone holds on to something and no one lets go. I've been saying this to the secretary of state for years, and in the last meeting, the minister has met, the inspectorate has come to your command, even to Sinj will come to the inspectorate. It was a thematic session in Sinj, but will continue to be transported to the Cetin area with buses older than 20, 30, 40 years old. And parents are afraid that a drawer will come back from school at all or to school and you can check it out, you're with that state secretary to know it's a huge problem. It's nice to talk about alternative fuels, it's nice to talk about hydrogen chargers, it's nice to talk about electric chargers, but we currently have a burning problem of what we absolutely don't meet any of the conditions of this here. And we'll rewrite here we'll raise our hand all of course, we're talking about alternative fuels at the same time as chaos. And I'm glad you mentioned the gas, you made a pipeline route, but by the time you got to Peru, you didn't go to Kukuzovac, and since you're here, it's very important when you mentioned it here in your speech, you mentioned the Kukuzovac economic zone, so to us, HEP, which has accumulated electricity where we would now have to collect 100% of the water price to our citizens because it collected electricity by 500%, HEP Croatia 500%. And what do they think I'm going to do to collect it to the citizens? And all you're gonna say from the government is that you've raised 10%, right? I have a solution yesterday I said, I'm waiting patiently of course and I'm mayor and I'm glad you mentioned the zone of the Kukuzovac and the gas pipeline. It's just that you're closer to giving up Alka and the Great Lady you'll all come, you're family-bound, we're all seeing each other. will come and the president of the assembly, will come and the president of the prime minister, will come and the president of the state and you will all come and welcome all the parliamentary representatives, fellow Members. Sinj has what to show and the Cetin end, we just have four Kukuzovac-Kryzice fast road, install the pipeline and I want to know how far you've come. Not that we don't have gas pipelines, we don't have enough power on the Kukuzovac zone, no matter what the HEP warns us to build us a transistor station and anything else. And it is very important that the Kukuzovac zone is at the best of strategic myths, perhaps in Croatia or in the hinterland of Split, an industrial zone and we have the possibility of development. Simple gas pipeline through the fast road, here, go present it before the Alka people of the Cetina region you'll get a round of applause. Baggers, there's a lot more talk than 25 years of wall before Alka. We've been listening to each other's walls and... of a number of bras, some are now in cages. So, about the alternative to talking, the real problems we need to solve at this point at least here are limited if you've limited taxis for environmental protection to five years, then limit the buses to at least 10, and not that buses carry from 30, 40 years old to our kids, literally to the garrison I said it was coal, we say garrison. When Sinjska rara, here we are fighting to somehow get to Ferrata, Sinjska Rera, to touristically restore that story. It means to discuss both hydrogen and gas and infrastructure and biofuels, but we do absolutely nothing about it but, on the contrary, bring and threaten the lives of our children. And another problem I'm going to tell you, when we talk about alternative fuels, the Ministry of Economy and the Environment, it's incompatible, first of all it's a huge mistake of fire and the water is where interests are mixed, and that's all the same ministry, and that's what I said and when the government was established that just such a structure is not good. Fire and water can't go together. The decision was then made to transport garbage from Vrgorec if the zone Kukuzovac, excuse me, the Waste Management Centre Lečevica is a missed project, not only is it missed, the only thing we had were directors, deputies, two employees and has been spent so far not knowing 50, 60 million kuna, is the decision to transport garbage from the Vrgorje dump to Sinj 120km in old carampalins carrying garbage on the highway. Now imagine how much CO2 is on diesel, carrying garbage, municipal waste 120km in one direction 120 in the other in the old carampals. It's reality, imagine what we're doing. Because some of these projects at the Lečevica Waste Management Centre have naturally led to this stage that the simply Split-Dalmatia County of Dalmatia will become worse than it was in Naples in Italy, we will have a huge problem. Nobody cares about that. Alternative fuels yes, infrastructure yes, but something else are the European directives that require us to do so, and I specifically said that more Finland uses solar energy than Croatia, more Maribor city in Slovenia uses electricity from solar i.e. of the sun, rather than Croatia. And we give God as the earth to use the sun's energy, and mostly on the roofs. And I've often said that these microsolars provide independent energy for our families, for socially threatened over half a billion local self-governments give to our vulnerable families, and for those half-billion could make a few dozen thousand on their roofs make solars, and so we would be energy independent and not tribal next year to give that money back to those people, but obviously it's important that those who have a monopoly to have addicts and depend on because of course it's very important to show that we helped with the heating this year, so you're going to give us a vote. You destroyed that man's dignity, you didn't provide our natural resource, and it's a microsolar. The bridge had the Microsolars Act and these microsolars can be used as alternative fuels, the chargers can be on solar plants, so we have the opportunity to handle it, not to prescribe regulations at the same time as we send our students to the old buses in 40. Where parents hold on to whether they will return home, pray to God, plead to Lady Sinjska, and their father will return to them alive. My colleagues and colleagues, President HS, just because of the driver's skills, countless times the buses were burning, the drawer was saved just because of their skills and imagine how it was to send these parents to school is the school of course distant, that it was not far away then we shouldn't have buses. So once again, let's devote ourselves to reality, to worries, and you listen to the Department of Traffic as I tell you, it's a disaster and a guess, and in this case alone I'm saying... Probably others. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111769	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates, now it's on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, respected colleague Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111770	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State and colleagues and fellow MPs. Alternative fuels are the future, and I think we all agree on that, and there is no doubt there, but the replicas have already seen how many issues and problems arise when we start talking about alternative fuels and now concretely about this development of alternative fuel infrastructure. The experts say we'll be there by 2050. Double the demand for electricity that will be key energy and then come up with questions that are also in the previous reading, and here and now put by colleague Mrak-Taritash where the answer is not our ministry, but it is crucial, which is what HEP does to enable the network to deliver all that electricity, these are huge investments. We hear from those who deal with, say, the delivery of solar panels that when you install solar panels on the roof of your house or building, and it doesn't even have to be delivered to the distribution network, but only as the end user that depending on where you are, in which part and which part of the ODS is known to wait for permits that you can even use that installation because you have to give HEP even a year. And the key question is, not the infrastructure that is now here, as a colleague has said, is not so bad because the future is essentially not a public infrastructure but a charge at home, at work, in buildings, but in reconstruction, energy restoration of buildings, those who think a little about future thinking about how to enable the charge of electric vehicles where you live and where you work. It's crucial what HEP is doing to get the network ready to accept, now imagine that in a year, we have 30% of the vehicles on our roads that are electric vehicles, we have a system breakdown, I'm responsible for saying it here today for the Assembly speaker. In the end, we have been spinning for years in this vicious cycle of alternative fuels and infrastructures. And what's a fact, and that, that's what these new circumstances are about, is that we actually break up that vicious circle and go into a faster action. We also heard yesterday about a new plan where everything is speeding up and descending from 2030 to 2027 to stop Europe from being dependent on fossil fuels, mainly on Russian gas and oil. So we have this vicious circle where investors don't invest capital in infrastructure building because there's not enough demand on the market. As a matter of fact, the price of vehicles driven by alternative fuels is relatively high because of the low demand on the market, and this is the one vicious circle in which we have been spinning for years. Customers, of course, give up buying such vehicles because they are too expensive, and yet there is no adequate infrastructure and how it will be interrupted, probably because of the new circumstances where we will all realize that it simply goes on like this because of the impact on climate and climate change, and because of this situation where we see how dependent we are on Russian gas and Russian oil. And to solve this without the support of public authorities, it simply won't work, we can't expect the market to solve such a, such a situation, it just doesn't work. I also mentioned in the replica that we have three biodiesel factories and all three are canned, shut down, not working, while in Europe the new ones are being built here is the answer that are private factories, they probably have no interest, so that they have no interest if our commitment is green policy and alternative fuel, and even biodiesel is part of the whole story, and so investors have no interest in themselves. I won't even get into it if you say in this legislative proposal that for different types of means of transport, of course, there will be different types of alternative fuels. And here we come to these famous railways that I often talk about, because it bothers me that when I leave Nasic for the Parliament, I take a train that drives about 60 km/h, and then I have to get on the bus, and then I go back on the train and change a few means of transport, and of course I never know when that train will get to Zagreb, will I ever get there, how and when, because the section of Križevci – Long Village is already working, how many deadlines have you broken? Supposedly she should be ready for a year. And if it is not finished for a year because it is funded by European funds, all these delays in HZ infrastructure will fall on the burden of taxpayers and all of this will have to be paid from the state budget. Hrvatski Leskovac – Karlovac has dropped public procurement again, yet everything is with DECOM, 200 million kuna less for that share in the rebalancing of the state budget in that item, in that position because it just doesn't know which time you're falling public procurement you haven't even started yet. 44km of track, but the Renaissance of the railroad will be completed by 2030 in eight years. God gave it to me! The EU says traffic and traffic pollution is first. From this sector comes 23% of CO2 emissions and the percentage continues to rise. In road transport, 75% of the total energy used in transport is used and nearly 73% of the greenhouse gas emissions of the transport sector are generated. And that's where we go back, of course, to that dependence on oil when it comes to European transport and that's around 94%, and 84.3% comes from imports. Europe has no choice, Europe must speed up and must move into alternative fuels far faster than it has ever been before. And of course what does that tell us? Europe will speed up, the Germans will not wait for us, nor the Austrians, nor the Swedishs, nor any of them. They will do their part of the work, and Croatia as always, see if with these railways they give us money, and we don't use it in time, and then maybe we'll return it, maybe we won't, maybe we'll beg to extend our deadlines again. But these same Germans, these same Italians, these same Slovenians, the Austrians are coming to Croatia on vacation, and now we hear that they will fill their electric cars on candelaires, and already most mayors are complaining that they have received abnormal bills for public lighting, three, four times bigger. The question is, will they come to us if they have nowhere to charge their electric cars? And these are some things that we need to seriously think about, because tourism for us, for tourism, is all livingly dependent on us. Well, we saw it yesterday. All this rebalancing and all that depends on what the tourist season will be, whether it will be 3% of GDP growth or not. And here's to not being longer, it's hard to talk about this in principle now because it's a different situation with electricity, with hydrogen, because alternative fuels go both biofuels and synthetic paraffin fuels, etc. The fact is that each of these alternative fuels individually has a whole series of additional problems and I'm just going to look back at hydrogen for a little while. These stories that he's going to get involved I don't know about 30% so the pipelines are going to go natural gas, hydrogen, ask some experts how much they can interfere without breaking our pipes. 10% tops. So let's stop fantasizing, start working concretely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111771	The third debate of the Social Democrats Club, respected counterpart Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111772	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. First, I would like to thank you for your reply to my remarks in the first reading that was related to the regulation, i.e. an apology for the directive that is just being abolished in the EU for the 2014 Parliament and for the new one that is now being adopted. And we are aware that we are currently in a period when the development of vehicles driven by alternative fuels is intense. We know that we must expect that we will have to adapt to new needs at the same pace and that we will have to do the same if it is necessary to change legislation. However, my intensity was actually to try to distract us so that it would be good to be proactive and to try to participate actively in these discussions in Europe, even if we were to make our proposals, given that we have specific needs. I mean specific needs because we have a tourist season, when we have a large number of tourists on the outside, and when we are actually growing in a short period of time, we need energy, not only for electricity, but for all other energy sources, so in the future we can expect the need for more and more hydrogen and other alternative energy sources. Here, one of my colleagues mentioned an alternative to fossil fuels only electrical energy. It's not just that. We're also talking about ingested natural gas, ingested by oil gas. We have a lot of these, we have six categories here, which are on the portal of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Connections, and we must not forget about biofuels, or biodiesel. Unfortunately, here's what happened to us that we had a few years ago still in Croatia there were several, several refineries of biodiesel, unfortunately they went out, but we were told that new production would be established in Sisak. We don't know what stage it is, which is where it happens, so that was the plan that was carried out here in the assembly, which was said here in the assembly at the time we were criticising the sale, selling the INAs to the Hungarians, when it was said that what was being put out in Sisko was actually going to be replaced with the production of biodiesel and that biodiesel in a way that actually planted the cane, the Chinese reed and that it produced biodiesel and after that it was still processed, so if you don't have a problem telling us later which stage that refinery of biodiesel is at. Furthermore, we know that the alternative industry of vehicles driven by alternative fuels in rapid development is also rapidly growing and we know that in the future it will grow unconstitutionally from the aspect, when we look at what is currently happening in Europe and what directives we are making and that we know that by 2050. We need to have zero actually of CO2 emissions. If this is to be achieved, it means that we will all have to engage in development, fortunately we have, we also have in Croatia a Roman who deals with this business, and we hope that it will expand and that there will be some mass production of these vehicles in Croatia and that we will participate in fast, faster development at the level of Europe and later perhaps beyond. However, regardless of what kind of fuel we're talking about, whether it's electricity, gas, hydrogen, we need to be aware that we're going to be growing needs in the future, and I'm glad that you mentioned those 200 million kunas you think you're actually thinking about investing in the alternative fuel supply infrastructure because without that, we won't be able to function. We are probably aware that we have major problems, which will be ahead of us when we have a large number of tourists on our islands with electric vehicles because the current number of chargers on the islands is very low and we need to be aware that we need to increase this number of chargers to allow those people who have come to us to function normally and to use their vehicles normally, without it I'm afraid that our season will not be as successful as they have been so far. When we talk about these islands and the needs of the islands themselves, let us not forget that we were talking about solar power plants that should be made on the islands. I haven't found any data at the moment that we have new projects that will encourage the production of these or pardons of these power plants, solar power plants on the islands, which is extremely important to us, it's important to us because of the capacities that we need to achieve on these islands so that we can actually run all the possible vehicles and air conditioning and all those devices that are actually connected to electricity, and without that, they won't be able to do so, so I believe that there are some, some projects. I believe we couldn't find that data on, on the portals, we couldn't find it anywhere in the messages, so we expect to get that information from the ministry. As far as the other problems that can be seen in this law are concerned, it is immediately at the beginning that much is left to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. So they will also solve some of the transport infrastructure, spatial planning, spatial data, energy building areas, energy efficiency etc., etc., it is probably in theirs, in their work, but we must be aware that they have limited capacities, so they will probably need to start and some help from the cost of other institutions or perhaps some new ones that will need to be established so that they can function. In addition, we have another problem, and that is the problem of spatial planning and local self-government. Let's not forget that without local self-government, we can't build any facilities on the territory and local self-government, so this initiative that moves from the state level has to go down to the lowest level and comply with all needs and initiatives at the level of local self-government. Of course there are counties, there are also counties that we can't skip because JLS have to fit into county plans, so we have a lot of steps to take, the initiatives are good, but the question is how much this really is consistent with the possibilities since we have some problems currently in the functioning of local self-government and, of course, that paperwork that has always tortured us when we get any permits that we mentioned here in the assembly. I'm glad you mentioned the development of an information system that will monitor how these alternative fuel chargers work. Last time I asked how it was meant to be established, since it was written in law that the carrier of that part of the job would be the ministry. I don't know who's going to set up this information system, we don't know where the computer infrastructure is going to be set up, whether it's going to be in a CDU or it's going to be new costs within the ministry, which is actually unnecessary because we have a CDU, and I think that the entire server infrastructure should be placed in that CDU to save money, after all, and that later all these systems would be easier to connect and that we would have a mutual, mutual conversation between these systems in a way that data is exchanged, that data is used in other systems, if necessary. So here's if it wasn't planned, my suggestion, so unless it's a problem to pass on that suggestion. Information systems that will monitor alternative fuel chargers I believe will be built with the latest technologies will probably then have some web services and will then be available to the public since it is interesting to know where there is a charge room to be available in real time, that our citizens when they are already on the road, when they can get that information through mobile applications. I believe that there are also some control mechanisms embedded in these applications, nothing writes much about it, but I believe that there are also control mechanisms that will later help both the ministry and the institutions that need to control this so that work and availability and fuel, alternative fuels on individual chargers as well as the charging facilities themselves can be controlled and how they work. As for us Social Democrats and the Social Democrats Club, you can always expect support from us when it comes to green energy and when positive and good initiatives are related to green energy and there we will always be both support and proactive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111773	Thank you. 4th debate IDS Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111774	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Mihotic. Perhaps before the beginning, I was reminded by my colleague Ahmetovic and my colleague Vucilović about the railway, so only briefly, my colleague Vucilović talked about renaissance of course through a dose of sarcasm. If there is a Renaissance in Slavonia, then our early Middle Ages are still in Istria, but that is another topic, perhaps the thematic session for the Istrian railway. My colleague Pavić, yes, you reminded me a little of the spatial planning of the municipality, cities and counties, but also the state has no spatial plan, so let's start from there, let's first define the basics, and then somewhere the lowest level is the... better decorated one of the municipalities than the spatial planning, they also have those that are more unsettled, but there are also those that are more decorated than the state. But let's get back to the subject. We welcome every effort, every shift towards establishing a system of alternative energy sources, the accompanying infrastructure there you will have the support of IDS, it is not a topic at all, green policies are our policies. But there's a long way ahead of all of us. What I'm actually worried about and it's not just up to you, but maybe you can point it towards the authorities is actually one whole thinking strategy, although I've seen a couple of good ideas today, I actually heard here what pleases me, strategies to set up a system of chargers of electric vehicles across the Republic or a lack of the same on the one hand, and a very small number of power plants on the alternative energy sources on the other side. We are getting information that Germany has doubled the incentives for the purchase of electric cars, we expect more and more electric vehicles in Croatia, especially in summer, to be taken care of. And where are we and why am I saying all this? We all know that our country is very different, diverse in many segments because it is also a beautiful area with more, with less population, with more and less guests and largely seasonal guests, areas that are more and less transitory. There are also areas where production, trade and services contribute greatly to the development of the country and areas which unfortunately do not follow that step. There's more reason why we won't get into them, but that's right. And that technical electrical part that is different from the region to the region, from the county to the county from the less usability of the system in some areas where the depopulation occurred, the decline of industrial production to the tension of the system in the tourist parts of the season. And we are aware that something is difficult to do according to a unique standard in such a country when values are completely variable. Now, which is the nominal population for which the number of chargers, summer or winter populations is projected, is similar to the waste, if summer is as meaningful as investing in infrastructure that most of the year and fellow Totgergeli talked about will be used with significantly reduced capacity. And taking into account all these parameters, it is necessary to define how much in which part of the Republic of Croatia needs a high capacity charge room and a high charge rate or where it needs more, where it may take a little bit less, and where it takes a lot more chargers less power and maybe a little slower charging speed, we talk clean because of the overload of the electricity system. It is also necessary to further stimulate the construction of small home power plants. And I'm going to try to practically show through the area from which I come from my Istria. In the context of electromobility Istria especially from the aspect of increased guest arrivals in the summer months cannot be compared to... the coastal part of Croatia, so neither with the work of Kvarner except perhaps the island because they largely destination. Tourist transit through the county is minimal and this is largely conditional and basic traffic routes towards southern parts of Croatia, but this is now a different transport topic. This means that unlike some other coastal regions that are largely transitory, it is necessary to define what is the need, for example. in Istria for high capacity chargers and charging speeds, as for small and small charging speeds. It is largely a car destination as I said before in the replica 85% of the guests come by car, but 56.29% of the guests stay in private accommodation and it seems that the percentage will grow according to the Study of Sustainable Tourism of the Istrian County. From this point on, we can conclude that it would be very important for Istria to invest in education in education of the same population, how important alternative sources and charging facilities are, I am now talking exclusively about electric chargers and building capacity to charge in the location of accommodation services, mainly in private houses, holiday houses, etc. And in the light of what I said before the destination of the Charger was less powerful. And it is expected that the charging process itself will become a fully commercial service, a full market price charge in some perspective so that in the future, in any case, it prefers to use cheaper night tariffs. And it is questionable how the tariff model will be determined with a greater transition to solar energy and basic production in the daily... Given the model of using such accommodation facilities, cars are also the largest part of the time parked in front of the house, it is also questionable how much will be expressed the need for fast filling and most needs I assume that they will be able to meet smaller house chargers with a longer period of charge. It's about they don't know 7.7 kW or anything. It also applies to all family homes where there is a need. I guess, we have to believe that there are more and more of our residents who are going to use electric cars. Of course, this does not eliminate larger and faster systems, but we must aim at them, but we must plan and build systematically and parallelly with investment in new production systems if we do not have a big problem. Under production systems, I mean, of course, electricity production. We are currently in a situation that we do not have enough new systems of electricity production that can compensate for existing and meet the new needs of the market in the coming period. Therefore, the first thing to do is to ensure the additional production of electricity from alternative sources as soon as possible. Find additional funds to encourage the construction of the electricity generation system, and this must be a priority to all of us over our priorities. Solve the cause, and then, of course, I will because to go back a little bit to Istria because there I know the situation as it is. What is very important is the electricity system of the Istrian County is already overstretched with summer peak consumption above regional production opportunities in those specks when we have in the season. And how to invest in new large consumers and in new consumer infrastructure, I mean large capacity chargers without prior investment in new power plants, for example. photovoltaic not only those, but how, about photovoltaics first comes to mind because of the amount of sun in our area. And since we are talking here to the greatest extent about summer consumption with favourable solar conditions, the capacity of a newly built charger should not in any way exceed the capacity of newly built solar power plants. You really should be something smaller. At this point, and before much more significant substitution of the production capacity of the Termoelectrica Plomin, the situation is such that the profession recommends charging the electric car and planning the chargers as part of existing connections without increasing the leased power, I repeat especially in those peaks in the summer months. And that's our big problem right now, I hope you realize that before and through the replica, I saw that, that you understand the problem and I appeal to you, and I know that it's not your portfolio, but you're connected, after all, this law is in your portfolio. I urge you to take into account what I said today in order to get started as soon as possible, talk to your colleagues from another economy ministry, in order to start building new systems of production of electricity from alternative sources with additional incentives for small power plants. And it won't happen on its own. If this really is a strategic priority to the state, I believe it is, then we need to help in the beginning to return these investments in the long term through cost-effectiveness and the most important high degree of energy independence. There are many families who are willing to invest at least in these small systems on their buildings, their houses family, but they need help to start co-financing. These are long-term investments that come back to us through multiple segments. And what's equally important is that we don't further threaten space, the photovoltaic systems are placed on already existing roofs, possibly larger power plants, it's tied to spatial planning and, of course, from county to county, the larger power plants have to go to already devasted areas if they can, like former waste dumps, former quarrys and the like because we have to parallelly save the production of energy from alternative sources, because otherwise, they're not green policies. And secondly, we're still asking the state to co-finance, except for the system of small family power plants, and the systems of small house chargers for electric vehicles. Then we will have a round process, a reduction in the need to generate electricity in large power plants, a good part of the discharge especially at certain times of the year, and a reduction in the need to build more capacity chargers that are not used in the winter or which would be at least for now until this and the amount of electric cars on our roads are increased. And of course I don't believe that he believes that we don't need to stress specifically how much this is needed by our country. And for the sake of preserving the environment and for energy independence and for preserving the competitiveness of the tourist destination, let us not forget that we are also on the market, European and global and for increasing economic competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111775	Before I give my word to my colleague Ahmetovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I would like to welcome students and students of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. Welcome. And now I ask my dear colleague Ahmetovic to take his word for it. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111776	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, MPs and MPs, this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. I also said this in the replica of the State Secretary, so we are harmonising our legislation with the 2014 Directive more specifically than on 22 October 2014 with the directive that is being done, which concerns the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. However, in the middle of 2021, the European Commission published a proposal to create a new regulation on alternative fuel infrastructures that should have taken effect already this year. This Directive or regulation will encourage a significantly faster transition to low- or zero-emission mobility with the appropriate infrastructure for filling such vehicles. So we are now introducing a directive that we will soon put out of force because we will have to comply with our legislation with the new legislation that is mandatory. And the secretary of state said that the ministry is working on it, of course to monitor and participate in the work of the European bodies in charge of creating new directives and is aware of it itself, as he said in response to my replica, that we will have to actually very quickly apply to the amendments, to the additional amendments to this law that we are amending today. In the Republic of Croatia, alternative fuels used in transport include electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and natural gas. The aim is to develop an alternative fuel infrastructure in order to achieve sustainable market and transport system development and to achieve lower or minimal negative environmental impacts, as environmental impacts have always been used by some or certain types of fuel, however, can be measured at a higher or lower intensity. The aim of this new regulation for alternative fuel infrastructure is to enable all current and future zero-emission users to have the best and best quality infrastructure in the future, in line with the EU's goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050. Therefore, this law proposes to further regulate the interoperability of the area related to the charging of L-category motor vehicles, the supply of electricity from land to inland waterway vessels, natural gas supply places for vehicles participating in road and water transport, and the technical specifications for the provision of hydrogen to road transport vehicles are also determined by the establishment of an alternative fuel charger register and its management. Technical specifications shall be laid down for filling places of category L motor vehicles, technical specifications for the supply of electricity from land for inland waterway vessels and a system of comparison of unit prices for alternative and conventional fuels shall be established. The SDP Club will support such changes to the law, however, although these changes have come well I would like to point out that we are somehow constantly coughing when we talk about harmonising legislation with European legislation and therefore, this is why we are not somehow promoting our system to a step that is being promoted by other EU members. The new regulation that I mentioned at the beginning of the exhibition significantly better defines the publicly available filling infrastructure of the vehicle as it increases the number of chargers across Europe. The new regulation set up the so-called so-called. Nationally binding targets that would prescribe how many EU member states must set a charge room for light and heavy vehicles. And I really hope that the ministry is also preparing this existing one, and now here is tomorrow de facto amended legislation to comply with the new directive, with a new regulation that will significantly better define the system and make much better steps in the system. As a tourist country, we would be interested in introducing a charge of charge of the vehicle using bank cards, so all chargers should set up card readers on their chargers to facilitate charging to many electric motorists, especially tourists who are not familiar with the network of chargers in the country they visit. The regulation of infrastructure for alternative fuels from 2021, therefore this new regulation that we will have to introduce into our legislation, has also set the goal of significantly strengthening the infrastructure on the TNT corridor, which is the corridor connecting all major transport points in Europe. It means that both in Croatia and in neighbouring countries, the number of chargers for light and heavy electric vehicles would increase further, especially to important relations between Ljubljana - Zagreb and Varazdin – Rijeka by 2025 to every 60 km, so at least one charger for electric trucks or buses would be set up, with two chargers of power up to 350 kW and at least one charger with two chargers of up to 150 kW for easy passenger vehicles. By 2030, the number of chargers must be doubled. I'm afraid if we don't hurry up with the implementation of the new directive, we won't achieve these objectives. The proposal is for a European Association for Electromobility, to place enough infrastructure in Europe for at least 10% of the total number of vehicles in the country, for example in Croatia, which would be much more infrastructure than is currently needed on existing number of electric vehicles. That might be motivating for vehicle buyers to consider switching to zero CO2 vehicles. The owners would therefore have no concern about finding a place to charge, and on the other hand, the charging facility would be co-financed by the EU, so that the country itself would not cost much. Of course, there remains a problem of low purchasing power for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who cannot afford a set of vehicles on alternative fuels such as electricity, but it is the subject of some other discussions. However, there is still the need to build infrastructure for alternative fuels, which, if not our citizens, will at least be used in a short time by tourists and visitors. This has already been recognised in particular by coastal and island units of local self-government that built such infrastructure in their areas. I am also talking about the island of Krk, where all units of local self-government have therefore financed the installation of an electric charger in their fields, some and two or three chargers as is the case in Omislje. However, given that the biggest benefit from tourism has a state we also saw yesterday in the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget to count on large, even greater tourism traffic than we did in December when we were planning the budget, that the financial sustainability of the state is also based on tourism, so we need to further strengthen support and, of course, financially from the national level, but already find a way to ensure our citizens a direct benefit from the establishment of this infrastructure. It is clear that this primarily means the financial availability of these alternative fuels and vehicles on their drive. Since this bill is de facto only on compliance with European directives in the SDP club, we have no reason not to support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111777	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Miro Totgergeli, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111778	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, as we have already heard today, we are discussing a final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. And as this has already been seen during the debate in the first reading, so it can be concluded today during the debate, more or less everyone will support these amendments to the laws that are actually going in the direction that most of the secretary states and some of my predecessors have done in the direction of improving certain technical regulations, supplementing these regulations, supplementing vehicles and categories of vehicles for which it is necessary to provide connection places for alternative fuels, but what may be most important in that story or what some of us are doing as most important, and that information system is actually to get an overview of where, when and what you can fill, at what prices it all seems, it also prescribes this, these amendments and the addition of the law. So we're creating a legislative framework so that our alternative fuel chargers are in even better shape than they are now, and I'm going to re-establish that I think at this point the network is satisfactory, and that we can fix it and that we need to fix it further, of course, that's true. During the debate on such laws, there is always this additional debate, which is to go in what and how technology in transport is, above all, electrical energy, is it hydrogen, is it gas or biofuels, and then very quickly we can clear it up and say everything that is related to gas, so it's almost very good and it works for us, it's even much better than the self-satisfaction, we have it at a very high level for a long time in all of Croatia. As far as biofuels are concerned, it's actually just that of mixing biofuels into diesel, or above all, into diesel, that part we regulated through the payment of pens to those who won't, now that this crisis is and we had to correct it. But first of all, when we talk about some alternative fuels, we're either based on electricity or hydrogen right now. In a technologically scientific technical way, it seems to me personally that it has not yet been defined to the end that it will soon be all together, or if we are watching now as far as personal cars are concerned, then somehow it has gone to the side of electricity, and hydrogen that helmet, on the other hand, on freight traffic, in train transport, is not there yet technically, and especially technologically to go into some commercial production defined what it will look like in the future. And here, I think we can all agree very quickly, now we have a lot of production of electric cars and, in some ways, we all concentrate on such alternative fuels, and when we start to discuss it, then we always open up that debate here that's about how we produce electricity in the Republic, whether we have enough and everything that's related to this discussion about electricity production. Now, I kind of have to look back on something that was said yesterday from this pay phone, and it's about power generation, he spoke in a free speech from counterpart Hajdas Doncic here yesterday, and he said we built the last hydropower plant in the Republic of Croatia in 1990. And then he added thesis, of course he used it as part of his debate, he added that all our hydroelectric power plants are already more or less amortised than when someone listens to it on the side would get the impression that, in fact, all our hydroelectric power plants are already at the end of their lifetime, they're being maimed and exhausted and we're about to lose them. Of course, none of the other claims are true, first we didn't build the last hydropower plant in 1990, last built in 2010, it's the Hydropower plant Lesce, which started construction in 2005, which means someone had to do a lot before that 2005 to even prepare the project so that the hydropower plant could be built and released in 2010. Also, this Lesce hydropower plant meant it had to have the support of several governments, it had to have the support of the SDP government there since 2000, in order to have that project done at all, it had to have the support of several HDZ governments to be built and released, and I will find that, when my colleague Hajdas Doncic was already talking about the fact that the last hydropower plant was built in the '90s, which is not true but in 2010, that he was just sitting in the SDP government in 2012. which has made a political decision to stop the construction of the Ombla Hydropower Plant, for which someone, perhaps 10 years before, has prepared documentation, projects and for which all the permits have been issued, for which money has been provided to go into construction and then a political decision has been made, we stop this construction. Why am I talking now? So because building serious, large, energy, infrastructure facilities requires a continuity, decisions are needed that are not made on the basis of day-to-day policy debates and sometimes need to resist what the day-to-day policy imposes because they are not good decisions in the long term. Here's when he himself complains that it wasn't a long built hydropower plant, and he himself was involved in stopping a project to build such a hydropower plant. On the other hand, we have the previous HDZ government that built the LNG terminal and there were a lot of stories about how it shouldn't be built, but first of all, when it was just about to go into a decision to build a LNG terminal like this, so the floating biggest grudges that were then not by the SDP to build a terminal there that wasn't going to be floating but quite the opposite. That this floating terminal with these capacities that it now has are the capacities that will be completely unused. How this terminal will function with only 10% capacity and will create losses of the Republic of Croatia. These were the main arguments not to go to the LNG terminal. Now at a distance of 3 years, we see that it was actually a strategically very good decision. In my opinion and today it was a very bad decision not to build the Hydropower Plant Ombla especially because at the time in the Republic of Croatia there were companies that were able to build the facility, as the Hydropower Plant Lešče was built in 2010, all of them worked by Croatian companies except maybe the turbine that was built by the Slovenian company. And in this context of strategic decisions, of course, it's a good thing that today, when we are discussing this bill, all the political options support these changes because we are actually creating a legislative framework that is a good assumption for building infrastructure precisely for what is needed right now, and I think that is most needed, and these are primarily chargers for electric cars. I think that the network is satisfactory, that it should continue to develop it and it is good that it is secured through the Ministry of Transport and through the Ministry of Economy that it is co-financed with 200 million kuna of future infrastructure, which if it is so agreed that it is about 50% means we can get investment in a charger of as much as 400 million kuna and I think it's good, especially that we are a tourist country and we have to cover those specks, but as I said we don't have to go exactly to the point that it actually turns out if it's one day over the year that we have to build a parallel highway so that day doesn't get too crowded, so that's how it is with chargers. The HDZ will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111779	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111780	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State is in front of us in the second reading of amendments to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels and, as my predecessors have already said, so regardless of what side of this assembly they were sitting on, whether the ruling and opposition are one of those draft laws that we will support for the simple reason that it is a law that works one step forward, a step in the right direction, and I think it should be supported. What I'm going to refer to on behalf of the club is two things. One thing's in shape, and another thing's in content. When it comes to form, I also discussed it in my first reading, so administrative oversight of the implementation of this law is done by the Ministry of Energy. So here we have a secretary of state from the ministry responsible for infrastructure, the law defines how to build a chargeable infrastructure, and the supervision of the law itself for the ministry responsible for energy based on all the other ones because, of course, they are in charge of being in those chargers something that someone will use. And on that side of reason, it's okay, but on the other hand, it seems to me that it should have been and no matter what it is in its opening statement, the secretary of state explained that the debate I had in my first reading why it was not acceptable, which anyone said or anything in the debates when we discuss this we are discussing in part about this very infrastructure of the filling room. It's like moving on to my predecessor who made a comparison to the highway. So that highway is built by one ministry or the authority to build highways will be one ministry, and the other ministry will control that highways work and everything else, so there are some differences so here is the Ministry of Economy. I must make a joke about this, which means that current current Minister Filipovic will oversee Minister Butkovic in the implementation of this law, so I'm not sure Minister Butkovic is very pleased with that, but what is there. What I wanted to say was just as much in the form of saying two things. The first thing is that it's become fashion, we already have one 3-4 years that we can't solve things by law and we're increasingly and more and more putting regulations, regulations in laws, we're giving some 3 months, 6 months depending on how, we also have those regulations that the government makes, and more and more these rules and regulations solve things that need to be settled by law. It was very wise to answer my reply to the State Secretary when I asked him at what stage these rules are because you know sometimes your rules are good to see them, you would get a broad picture of the law, so he answered very wisely that they are working and being prepared and that the deadline in the law was set and that they would respect that deadline. It's one long-standing wise secretary of state exactly as it is and not to get on thin ice that has to answer anything more concrete, but on the other hand, it would be good to know something because more and more, therefore more and more we have such laws. What's equally true in this law, there's one topic that I'm very, very happy to talk about, and that's the subject of the State Inspectorate at all. Not so long ago we were all here to discuss the establishment of this great mastodon called the State Inspectorate. Everyone, there's been a heated debate, there's been a heated debate about the state's chief inspector, and somehow it's in the context of all the other events, events, and everything that happens to us every day, and I'm not going to refer to the earthquake, the crown, the war in Ukraine, but somehow there's some stuff left under the radar, but what's interesting is that the inspection that's going to be our jurisdiction and oversee this, this law remains in the ministry that's in charge of transport infrastructure. That's what it means to end this, this story. So, the supervision of this law has been carried out by Minister Filipovic, so in that part, he was responsible for the part of Minister Butkovic, but in other times Minister Butkovic managed to fight for the situation in which his inspection was left, he did not go to that large, large mastodont called the State Inspectorate, so that something clearly changed along the way and in terms of some hierarchy and governance, but it is another HDZ policy and policy that I will neither judge nor enter. What I'm saying is something about this, this establishment of infrastructure. The war in Ukraine and the changes that are really us, we try to open our eyes all the time. We are all, and regardless of any commitment, we are declaring alternative fuels, we are talking about the establishment, we are talking about hydrogen, we are very happy to talk about electricity, we are talking about biofuels, we are talking about gas and everything else, but the main thing of our transport is still working on oil. The theme of war in Ukraine, the topic of oil opened our eyes again and showed that we should turn somewhere else. What Croatia really needs to turn around in time somewhere else, there has been a lot of debate and there have been a lot of stories, already today large, large companies that have their gas stations where the main of course is classical, classical oil is already doing gas stations. They're getting ready, now I'm talking about power chargers. They're getting ready for the next 20 or 30 years to realize that things are going to change a little bit and they want to be the first among the teams. Equally before one, for a while we discussed a rule that tells us that when you work and design multi-state houses, when you work and design buildings for public purposes, when you build and design, let's say, malls that, as we neatly base certain regulations, we have a certain number of vehicles for people with disabilities, that we should also have a number of places where they charge. And it's that rulebook and look at the new malls and some new public spaces, they have it all together. It is equally important in a country that is as touristic as Croatia is that you really offer, when you offer and say you have fast chargers, vehicles that are, therefore, electric vehicles. I recently watched a National Geographic report because I was very interested in it, and then a part of Europe was visited by a young team who had a car that was, an electric car and then they explained through this showing of a picture of Europe, or part of Europe, they were talking about where the chargers were, how much they had to wait somewhere. So, we're usually very, very inclined to wait for things to happen to us, and then when things happen to us, then we do repair the damage. So what we know now, we know that it's a charger's need, that it's a need for fast chargers, that these fast chargers really need to be tied to individual destinations and that in that sense we need to take a step forward. In conclusion, on behalf of the club because I'm going to be here for another little while, so I'm going to be something quite different now as it is in that commercial, and now something completely different. In conclusion, we who club will accept this amendment and the addition of the law. We appreciate that it's a good thing we're actually taking a step with some time. What I always love about every law, I like to see really in real life what's going on, and we need to be aware of the changes that are, be a step ahead, not a step behind. If we want and we want to go there, I will actually end up with tourism, if we want to say that the destination is desirable then a desirable destination except the beauty of landscapes and everything else offers some other things that tourists need today. Thank you very much, so much for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111781	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate, and the first one will be re-spoken by a respected representative, Mr. Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111782	Thank you very much. It wasn't like that before, but then the debate happened, so now I'm going to do something completely different. I'm going to focus this individual discussion a little more on the part that fills. Who's gonna charge and how's he gonna charge? So we're going to establish information about the chargers, we know where the chargers are going to be, so we're going to have a part of the funds we're going to use for that, but then we get to the bottom of it. The bottom line is, you can, I'll compare it always to something that's very reasonable to me. When you are, I'll refer to the highway, decide when you're going to build a highway to watch traffic that's up-to-date and traffic for a while, and then your decision is to build a highway. Through our history, remember that story from Zagreb to Rijeka where at one point it was concluded that there was no need for a highway, and then it was that road of 3 lanes that caused confusion and everything else and we quickly decided on the highway. That's what you're doing here. So, the decision is to go do the chargers. The theme is what will be in those chargers and the theme is who fills them and the way they fill them. So the alternative fuels at this point are gas, we're giving up gas, so the gas will slowly give up everyone. It's biofuels that have proven with a lot of problems we have, electricity and hydrogen. I am and I often mention it, although he is people, I am my son who doctored on motorcycles at one point, because I was curious, asking, you tell me in the future, what kind of engines will be, which will be the drive for those engines because he's just doctored on that topic, he said, will be what concludes to be the most rewarding ones with their technology going on. And we here all the time refer to electric vehicles, personal vehicles. But who are the biggest contaminants? Who are the biggest users? We're not with our own private vehicles. We today electric vehicles for some functioning within the city and everything else, fine, excellent. The largest pollutants in terms of contaminants and those who spend the most are public transport and freight transport. So it's the trucks, it's the buses. The key question is what kind of fuel they're going to go to. Whether there will still be an electric drive that introduces in terms of environmental protection of the battery, the problem of relieving those.../incomprehensible/... i.e. the disposal of these batteries, the problem of the waste, or there will be something else, and we are actually talking about us here, but we are in this big circle, so we like, who have personal vehicles that we are much smaller than those that are much, much bigger part and what some analyses have shown that for cities and public transport within cities is an acceptable power plant, but for this long one, so for this one, when you drive, I don't know, from Croatia to Sweden or anywhere else, the question is that for this remote traffic of these heavy trucks is that engine, so these engines, the question is how acceptable they are and there enters the hydrogen story and some other things. And we need to think about it today, and we need to think about it within the railroad, why the railroad is developing. Well, it's developing from some other stuff, for that heavy load, incomparably better railroad, and you have to do it all on parallel. You know, because you can't say at one hour, okay, now we're going to do the chargers, and those chargers, somebody's got to join up and get some electricity that's being produced somewhere. We were saved by the sun when the water entered part of our green energy, when it was just no longer, was the sun, the wind and the rest, but the hydropower was left. We went up at the same time because we were developing hydropower. There's one hydropower plant we've all forgotten about. That hydropower plant is called the New Sources. At the very beginning of my action, I was in an environmental impact assessment and this Novo Virje hydropower plant gave up. You know why? Because Hungarians on the other hand declared a national park and said that in terms of national park and action on HE Novo Virje space, there is a big problem. I see now and I will end here, I see now an inter-party agreement that works for a new Slovenian government. Their coalition agreement includes the second block of the Krško nuclear power plant. So that's the topic we need to discuss further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111783	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. You said in your previous speech that the war in Ukraine opened our eyes. Now we're reading that biofuels is actually very questionable because it's like we're putting food in car tanks. What's your attitude about it because when I actually see the buses of the ZET on biofuels, I feel like we're actually denying ourselves food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111785	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111786	Thank you very much. So, you know, the path and you go through different stages. One of the phases was and there was the secretary of state very wisely, when someone asked, related to these biofuel factories, one of these factories was in Vukovar that didn't work, which were closed, then he said, well, these are private investments. It's not like that. Those of us who remember for a little while, remember the following. That this country has at some point decided to encourage biofuels to its subsidies, but that's what you have to develop. What I had some experience to read and come up with, so biofuels always make sense of something, not our cars, maybe not the buses of ZET, but let's just say, it was boat-bound. Ships were one of the first to start using biofuels, and algae were developing new organisms, and in fact ships in the middle of the ocean stopped and everything else. So it needs to be further developed, obviously it's there. There was too much reluctance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And it hasn't gone on yet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111787	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111788	Dear MPs, when we talk about electric cars, electric trains, ships powered by electric motors, etc., etc., it's not just these electric motors, it's a problem and where that electricity came from. If we're going to have fossil fuel sources and then we're going to waste it as electricity, we didn't do anything at all. We have a problem with wind power plants because in the production of wind power plants, a tremendous amount of electricity comes from a variety of sources, and then it's questionable how green that energy actually is. So the greenest energy is definitely the energy of the sun, so I think we should think that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111789	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111790	Thank you very much. So normally I have to admit both in life and in some decisions that I'm making that aren't, I always kind of feel like you should have a bigger number of choices on the table. That you must have a greater beauty. You just decide something else, you forget something else, and then there's some problems on the way. As with biofuels, you, at one point, are no longer at the world level, I don't speak at Croatian level, developed. Maybe it was supposed to develop, or in my presentation, I said, at one point, one industry is moving very strong, very strong, and it's beginning to develop. I've always thought well about wind power plants, they're talking about a country that shows that it really does make sure that it uses alternative sources, but we have to think about that with us these wind power plants at one point they didn't even base their concretes on us anymore, it all started, and they were... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111791	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111792	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, you have opened a lot of good topics and here today we hear a lot about electric car chargers, but here I am reading the average age of Croatian vehicles is 14.34.g. And we definitely have to ask ourselves when we do electric car chargers, whether we only do them for foreigners or some tourist checkpoints, or if it's meant to protect the environment in which we live, which is primarily polluting us who live here with our old cars, and whether we are doing everything possible to bring our population closer to the possibility of buying electric cars and the other important topic you mentioned today is taking care of this waste that we're talking about today, and I think that's definitely going to be a big topic and a very important topic in the near future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111793	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111794	Thank you very much. My colleague Lerotić, I must and want to agree with you in fact about electric cars and batteries are a serious topic. I have to say that at one point I went to see all the parts that are for these batteries and who are producing them and I was curious that again in terms of production we do not bond with a certain part of the world where we can have a problem, but what is really a problem with waste management. One of the key topics of our 21st century is the topic of waste management. The countries that have gone further are called urban mining, those of their old closed spaces where they have deposited waste that have not been re-opened, they're getting out of some of the metals that are good, for the sake of defrosting and everything else, the theme is where to take care of those batteries and it's going to be a theme, so there's no packaging perpetum, there's no magic wand that everything is ideal, you just need to sort of see what for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111795	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111796	Dear colleagues, my colleague Lerotić has turned a little bit off the topic, but he has made a good turn about it and you have actually mentioned these wind power plants as one problem or question of how many wind power plants are even an ecological source of energy and how many are produced in Croatia. For the production of one wind turbine, more CO2 gas is produced as later as this wind, the wind turbine actually produces organic energy, in other words it may be more ecological to use gas than it is to produce wind power plants because the technology of wind power plants and even solar production is sometimes not ecological even though it looks like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111797	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111798	Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. So I think the assembly is the place where we need to open different topics and when we have laws like this around which, in my opinion, I'm dividing them into very simple and clear what they want to achieve and open the topic. So, charge room okay, but in that charge room you have to win somewhere, we're talking about electricity only now, when you're squandering that electricity somewhere, somewhere, somewhere like you said about solars and wind power plants, something that was here for a year ago to mention nuclear energy that was here at EU level, there were two strong lobbys, one lobby of the French who were still developing, other lobbys that were Germans, who were once said we wouldn't have any more, the topic and awareness of actually being the purest energy nuclear energy, but we're coming up with the problem of waste. So here, try to put the denominator, we end up here when it comes to anything we come to the problem of the waste and the waste that we create.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111799	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111800	Thank you. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I think that the key to energy security in diversifying the source of electricity production and when we are already on the topic of nuclear energy that is no longer unacceptable even at the EU's entire level is thought to be even more environmentally acceptable than some others that we have previously advocated as ecologically that Croatia has changed regulations regarding nuclear waste management at least partially, but what I don't see, I don't see that we are, for example, in the NPOO or in the National Strategy, even investing in new, new nuclear power plants in either Croatia or in the countries in the environment, nor does Croatia have any excessive plan to develop nuclear potentials in any way, what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111801	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111802	Thank you very much. So, colleagues Oreshković, Croatia has its own resources that are in Nuklearka Krško because according to the contract we get part of the energy from Krško Nuclear. We should also participate in waste management in accordance with this contract. In waste management, we're trying to do everything we can to avoid participation, but we're gonna have to participate. And, among other things, there was a debate maybe a month ago when we discussed where nuclear waste was scheduled and ultimately from the locations that were in the former, in the former strategy or spatial planning programme, politics made a decision on what was most acceptable. What policy? Politics in this same assembly where certain amendments were made, where some locations went out. It seems to me that the waist should make more and more of a decision in order to make that imaginary Dr. The sleeve that somehow made up his sleeve should have listened more to, and what I'm sure is something to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111803	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111804	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about alternative energy sources, we're talking about a network of chargers, and I've already pointed out in the replica to the secretary of state that the 3,000 cars we have in Croatia today are not enough, so I think that's extremely little in the context that we have 2.3 million registered cars. Here's my colleague Lerotic said that the average age of cars is 14 and more than 14 years, which is actually a very bad situation. The first thing I'd like if someone, round up why we're doing it at all. We work because we have organic production, to use environmental fuels or to fight greenhouse gases or global warming, that is the ultimate goal. Right? If that's the ultimate goal, and we have a goal, then it's not for us to make a charger, it's for us to have people driving electric cars. If it is an average electric car that can make way Zagreb-Split, Zagreb-Sibenik costs 70,000 euros and then we are in trouble. A key measure to be taken by the Croatian government, i.e. by the resolution ministry or by the ministry, means that it should be a cross-resorship measure of some kind is an extremely increased boosted subsidies for electric cars. As long as these subsidies are at this level of interest won't be, so that's very important. So, what was the first chicken or egg? So first we have to have people who use electric cars to have chargers tomorrow. Let us not be afraid, the chargers will be, the private initiative will then provide the chargers, only we cannot count on 3% of the population of Croatia but we must have a much, much bigger coverage and you, and the price of the car must be significantly, significantly, significantly acceptable. I will even drum here if a car like this does not cost an average customer 25,000 euros and then we will never be able to in Croatia or in due course expect that we will have a replacement car for fossil fuels with electric cars. And that's the key to me, but okay, I welcome this law. The other thing, some, here's what I pointed out in the tail of my colleague Dark, so let me make it clear that he wouldn't stay unspeakable. Some sources, some energies and some way of producing electricity at first sight seem ecological but not. I've already spoken from this place, I'm going to repeat, in Western Europe, there are a number of researches in America today that we're talking about the production of solar products that we're talking about so much about today, using more fossil fuels or causing more, means that it affects the greenhouse effect more than these solar plants produce later on. So this is something we have to, let's be one step ahead of the others, let's think about this a little bit. Let's see a little bit at the wind power plants how much in the production of the wind power plant produces CO2 gas and other non- greenhouse gases and then go to some alternative. And finally, I'm going to call back here to a colleague of the Dark Tarritate who said it nicely. A few years ago, and even in our Croatian Parliament, if someone had said nuclear energy, let's talk about it, probably would have ended up in the cover as crazy this one or crazy this is talking about nuclear energy. Now here you are not the only one and I am a few times mentioned, and I see many other colleagues let's talk about nuclear energy as some alternative source compared to what we have today. Both France and Germany, the entire EU is turning to nuclear energy because there is obviously no alternative. I'm not going to say sorry, but thank God it's here. The only problem with nuclear energy today is as far as we can see is the disposal of nuclear waste, but I don't remember here someone correcting me in any case that nuclear waste disposal had some kind of breakthrough or contamination of the surrounding space, I really haven't heard. So it's more of a psychological, psychological problem for the population of the settlement that's close to it, and here's the problem I really haven't heard anywhere in the world. We had Fukushima, we had Chernobyl, but here are modern technologies and nuclear technologies are much safer. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111805	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111806	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Zekanovic, you also worked before the meeting in the environmental protection sector and you made a good point in this second part of your debate, which is that maybe the chargers won't be a problem but will be self-supply of electricity, if we have it at all. You've talked about the power plants themselves, we know different opinions here, so here I'm asking you. When we talk about nuclear energy, the automation people will be against, when we talk about thermoelectric power plants we saw an attempt on the Peru was to build it up either by automation against, when we mention solar, wind, solar, wind or any other renewable source it is insufficient under quotes for a country at this point even hydropower plants. So what's the future for you? To add what we have in Krško together with Slovenians or to turn to exclusively renewable energy sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111807	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111808	Dear colleague Bačić, here's the bravo, you're fine, you've noticed. I would be here if I were in the position of the ministry or the Croatian government I would go to more fronts. So he would continue to develop meanings and the production of electricity in solars, of course he would not neglect completely and the wind power plants, although they are extremely, extremely trick and they are a major devastation of space, they have a big problem in the settlements where they are being installed, but when, as far as nuclear energy is concerned, there would definitely be a nuclear power plant at the border of Croatia and Slovenia that would go to the development of the project, I think it would be good for Croatia, but I would think of this also courageously about the Croatian nuclear power plant. The problem is that you said electric cars need electricity. If we could get 2 million cars to power now, we'd have a system collapse. Collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111809	This, distinguished representative, Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111810	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Zekanovic, in your debate, you expressed your skepticism whether we need this one to develop the chargers or first this car, which is an older chicken or egg. As far as the debate is concerned, I agree that we need to encourage the purchase of these cars by the state, but we are not only developing this for our market, namely we are developing for one interoperability of the entire European market and the development of traffic that is going through our country, development, development of our tourism, if we know that these people where the trend is, here last year I said 37% of new registered cars were either with a reduced CO2 ratio or with a zero CO2 input, so we need to follow that trend and we need to prepare ourselves for, for that kind of traffic. Of course, this is an opportunity for both our market and our economy, because our economies must be involved in the development of all of this in order to benefit from all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111811	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111812	Dear colleague, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I don't think this is a bad bill and I think I should go in this direction, but here I will repeat my thesis that, if the chargers don't make sense without electric cars, but I will agree with you that the chargers are not only for Croatian cars but also for those who visit Croatia. Now, here's one criticism to the rest of the ministry or the promoter, let me correct if I'm wrong, but on the highway from Zagreb to Split have only two chargers of electric cars as far as I know, so on the highway only two, here's a correct me if I'm wrong, I don't think I'm wrong, I was just checking it out, unless that google charger shows it wrong, only two, it's not enough for me, and if I didn't know tomorrow I'd have 100 thousand electric cars waiting for order, but I think first, that the egg was also a chicken that we needed ic on cars, and then a private initiative, each that has a private pump will also put the possibility of electric charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111813	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111814	Your Honor, Your Honor, when we talk about fossil fuels, we're talking about greenhouse gases, so we're talking about CO2 emissions. Gas is fossil fuel, it's clear how much, and why is it more environmentally acceptable, is the production and disposal of electric cars more environmentally acceptable than cars with internal combustion engines? In the context of what does the CO2 emissions from electric cars depend on and what is it related to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111815	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111816	Thank you. Dear colleague Kirin, here you are bravely saying one thing that is not spoken in Croatia. I recently spoke to people from the profession who explained to me that even the famous iso glass which means the insulator is good to spend a lot of CO2 on its production and on the other hand that the iso glass prevents even in one period, especially on... Where I come from is a lot of sunny days for the heat to enter the house, so even today it's talking about that ordinary three-millimeter, four-millimeter glass being better in some context than that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second problem, I'm getting a little over, isolating the house today which puts those styrofoams, Styrofoams also to produce and isolate and house we're talking about energy houses, and more CO2 gas is produced for isolation than energy will later be saved with it. These are topics that need to be discussed, something that is ecological at first sight is actually often not, often it's not, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111817	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, here I am and you are coming from Dalmatia, we know in the area of Dalmatia that we have many local units scattered in a large area with a small number of inhabitants and I know from experience so far when local unit leaders would like to motivate these classic energy suppliers such as pumps, oil, oil, gasoline and so they had no interest because of a small number of inhabitants and distances from the centers of such areas. I'm afraid this is a far-reaching futurism especially for these alternative power stations for these areas, and now I don't know if you can think about some kind of subsidies just so these people aren't disabled in these areas, and we want them to stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111819	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111820	But if we just stick to the charger for electric cars it's a good thing that every household can also charge its electric car and it's a huge advantage, so every house if a man lives in some rural space, especially then has a yard and a garden where he will be able to do so, of course there's a special installation that's not too expensive, but it's possible and it's actually an answer to your question that electricity has an advantage that actually every household can be a charger tomorrow. But when you start out, here I am from Sibenik to Zagreb I think there should be more than two charge stations on the highway and some living in skyscrapers in cities where there is no such possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111821	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111822	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zekanovic, Croatia is a tourist country that has a lot of green ambition and environmental protection, it is logical that we invest in the construction of infrastructure for alternative fuels because tourists are coming to us. But you have rightly observed and wondered how many standards of Croatian citizens can actually follow the price purchase of such cars and other vehicles, and what can be done besides perhaps some state aid. I found information that last year registered in Croatia, 112 thousand personal cars, of which only 30% were new, 70% used, what does that mean? This means that when a German exports his car and de facto rejects it then the Croatian buys it in Germany or buys it in Belgium, so or in another member of Western Europe, I'm interested in your data whether our standard is such that we can concentrate more on electric cars or on those who use alternative fuels?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111823	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111824	Dear colleagues, the answer, you know, unfortunately I don't think it is, I don't think it is, but here I was just looking at secondhand electric cars on that famous New Yorker, prices are fantastic, cars that have crossed 300 thousand miles hold the price of 50 thousand euros, though I looked at Tesla, which is the best class. These are prices that an average Croatian citizen cannot. Now, this is a vicious circle of subsidies. If the car costs 70, 80,000 euros cannot be given by the state 60. But now I don't know we have to invent some model or find simply this green transition we're not going to make. I'm here now to be honest, I don't have a solution. Maybe at some point that technology when competition and cheap develops, but this is a vicious circle. In other words, today we subsidize those who have money to buy a good car. So the one who has 60,000 euros will give him 20. And who has 60,000 euros? That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111825	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111826	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Zekanovic. I'm glad you've been indicative and commending this bill before us. I must personally say that when I talk about power stations, I notice the difference in Velika Gorica from a few years ago when they were set up, when there was almost no car that would be loaded there in the inner center of the city until now when I see the lines waiting for those cars to be loaded. It means that these obvious subsidies and support and all that is done helps and comes to the desired effect that we give as much importance to the environment as possible. We also mentioned what would interest me that subsidies should be increased. We know that subsidies are also quite large for these electric cars, however, that the price is very high, so I would like to know if you have any concrete solution or if you can have some concrete way to get to that, to fully satisfy this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111827	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111828	The answer is a subsidy, although I had already replied to my colleague earlier that given the extremely high price of the car, it is difficult for the state to have that money. Here's what it means to be honest. What's the second moment? And here you may wait for the competition to make its own, so at some point when Volkswagen and BMW and Renault start to produce electric cars to a greater extent, the price will probably fall, and then these subsidies with a lower price will actually allow even the average car buyer to buy that car. As for the rows and the charge room, here's one thing that, I think my colleague Bacic pointed out that was in the replica, because already someone, so it's very important, that we have those slow ones and fast ones. It's not the same if a man was filling a car for 15, 20 minutes or 3 hours. So, okay. Take care of that, but that network of 600 chargers is unfortunately the vast majority of that slow charger so that we don't, that we don't sneak into that 600 figure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111829	Thank you very much. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111830	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's exactly what a colleague is with, and it's finished. It's something we should start dealing with. I think that there is politics and all the laws, the regulations that we have adopted, I think that we have come in time, I think that we are in line with the time and the space in which we live, to follow closely the European Commission's green plan, to follow all the directives and what will be needed in the coming decades in order to increase the number of renewable energy sources, but also certain transports to alternative fuels. But here I am, and I'm asking myself, and I hope I'm wrong, and I hope that this will change, and these are certain companies and certain infrastructures that are currently in existence on our A1 highway, but also in certain cities and municipalities that I believe at this point in my knowledge won't be enough for fast batteries and fast chargers. So the big difference is that a colleague also mentioned whether we're gonna stop on the highway or a tourist charge a car for three hours or they're gonna charge a car for 20 minutes or they're gonna be able to charge a fast car in their own house, in their garage that's something, and that's the big challenges that are waiting for us. But I think there's going to be the most cost to change our power grid right now. Because speaking we have a strong manufacturer of electric, for example, boats in Kašteli, Split-Dalmatia County, which claims I don't know how to make one charger for electric vessels, for example on Split's waterfront, we should be pulling cables literally from Solin, which is about ten kilometers away from the sea itself, which is normally invaluable and then the cost of filling itself is much higher. But I repeat, I think the ministries have done a good job, we've talked there and about hydrocarbons, we've talked about a lot of laws relating to this issue, and as far as the normative part is concerned, we're ready for the introduction and regulation of alternative fuels versus conventional ones that are in front of us and that we're using right now. And the aim of the Republic of Croatia itself, as we have seen in the explanation of the Secretary of State itself, and that we are just developing fuel infrastructure as a prerequisite for the use of alternative fuels in transport itself. We know how much traffic affects both CO2 emissions and pollution alone. I keep going back to that UN Summit in Glasgow on climate change where we still took certain views, where we took certain commitments, where Croatia aims to reduce carbon emissions by 55% by 2030. It is for us, it is to participate for us very high 40% of the level of emissions in 1990, and I believe that the government has taken a position on nature protection as a topic we definitely take seriously and the green revolution is normal ahead of us and it comes to the Republic of Croatia and it comes to the Croatian road which is also good information, that our citizens are willing to participate in the green revolution. Because we can also see that in the last year, the number of electric cars has increased by 100%. Although it stands below 1%, i.e. 0.17% of the total number found in the Republic of Croatia, but I think we have a lot of room for progress here. Normally, all these incentives that go on electric vehicles are good things, but here's my proposal for many years, I hope the Ministry of Economy but also the Ministry of Finance will adopt it because the benefits are much bigger, and that's to cancel VAT on all electric vehicles and vessels because I think this branch is when we count the problem for CO2 we only have with Plomin which will be closed in a few years when we count all the other factors, I think maybe in a little bit of that in our size, we can be the champions of the EU and the world, but in environmental protection and the green transition we can be with a little shift first. So we just need to change the percentage of electric vehicles on our roads, I think that in cooperation with local self-government units and with the state, we can do that and simply that VAT which might currently be lost in the purchase of electric vessels and electric vehicles would quickly be returned because exactly the users of such vehicles spend a lot more on certain other things, segments in society, so that they would very quickly return that VAT and we should not see it as a loss but we can be with the safest country of tourism in Europe, we can be both the cleanest and the most desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111831	The esteemed representative Maximchuk has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111832	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, with the notion of alternative fuels, we immediately link the problem of air pollution, the environment. The biggest problem is emissions, of course, carbon dioxide, there's one and the world's biggest problem. Transport is responsible for as much as 25% of carbon dioxide emissions. How crucial the means of transport are in this problem, I found information that one average car drops CO2 annually as difficult as it is. In order to even discuss alternative fuels, we must have, of course, a network of better infrastructures, but also increase awareness of the purchase of such cars to alternative fuels. In your opinion, in what way can the state and local self-government units help subsidize our fellow citizens in order to raise awareness of them buying such cars?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111833	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111834	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Maximchuk on the line. The truth is, I think that at a global level some 17% of road traffic affects CO2 and greenhouse gases. I stand for it, we have one good option both the EU and the EU Commission, which I don't think we're taking advantage of, which is green public procurement. Green public procurement which does not tolerate the rules of ordinary public procurement, and I think that ministry should give instructions, these vehicles are a little more expensive, but the state has to show an example and we have a relatively small state where local self-government, municipalities and cities don't officially go that far. Here, we have... County, the mayor may pass maybe a hundred kilometers.../incomprehensible/... to tour a certain city or a certain municipality, at the place of the state I think you should do this, instruct them to spend a little more, but to have the public administration all switch to electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111835	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. Here, I would mention that, I would say, there are even certain preparatory works on two resuscitative hydroelectrics in the area of Split-Dalmatia County or in the area of Cetinska krajina, to be even more detailed. I believe that the Secretary of State is very much addressed to this topic and here, I am interested in your opinion on the possibility of the usability of hydropotentials in the area I mentioned and often dispute without any, often, arguments, even fearing environmental disasters precisely when it comes to these potentials that are purely watery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111837	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111838	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Brcic, for the replica. I agree with you, I think that the biggest environmental danger for any country is to be energy-dependent, on anyone because it includes transport, that includes negotiating with certain other countries, certain producers, Croatia, can use that size and its wealth, and that is normal, and hydroenergy. I think that we must absolutely turn this road to renewable energy sources, we have this abnormal potential when we look at only hydropower plants, when we look at solar and wind parks, we have now, it opened last year and the largest solar power plant on Vis where now and Vis as the most distant island became this, energy independent, that's the way Croatia needs ić, we don't need much, and with renewable energy sources I think we can be the first in Europe and supply our supplies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111839	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111840	Thank you very much, Vice President. In 2018, if I am not mistaken, we adopted in the EU a resolution that in some ways we wanted to encourage the deployment of alternative fuel infrastructure in the EU because it was already clear that the economic branch in which the increase in CO2 emissions was constantly recorded and that something had to be done in that segment, but I remember that the representatives were quite unfettered because the infrastructure was largely inaccessible and they also warned that we had too little new vehicle models to use alternative fuels. According to the data I have, these are the data from 2017, only 19 battery electric vehicle models and 25 hybrid electric vehicle models could be purchased, and 417 car models with internal combustion engine, and then we invited manufacturers to step up their efforts. Do you have any information as to whether he is apart from the roman? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Is there anything new on the market? [[Employed: Dear Representative Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111841	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Petyr. There's absolutely a novelty on the market in terms of, I think big manufacturers like here, specifically from Volkswagen, who are planning to totally reject the conventional way of driving their vehicles in the next decade, and I think they're investing, they're putting a lot of effort into that field. Normally, it will bring certain costs, it will also bring some problems, but if we systematically organise ourselves at EU and country level, I think we can make a big move there, and this first series of electric vehicles normally, have problems with both the battery and the amount of kilometers that can pass, but there we are champions in Europe in the world because we have a large production plant, here not far from Zagreb in the company Rimac and I think that here with these new batteries and everything they are preparing we can definitely be on the leading market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111842	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111843	Thank you. Here's a esteemed colleague of mine we're talking about alternative fuel infrastructure, even though today in the 21st century we have people who still don't have electricity. Mr. Marian Dvorski, who I've been talking about here for 5 years 5 kilometers from the center of Kutina for 15 years, has been waiting for electricity. It wasn't just today that he got with all the promises in one street that has a perspective that other people build family homes there can't get electric energy, but it's used to poor solar panels and you can think that a man lives in the dark in the 21st century, and we're talking about a science fiction about a future that he can't even dream about. You said we'd be the cleanest country. That we'll be because the industry was destroyed. Here we are in the Box breathing so clean air because for two, three months now, Petrochemy has not worked. I'm just afraid that we'll be the tiniest nation, because with all that purity, we'll be hungry and hungry because we won't have anything to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111844	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111845	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Lenart. I hope these black forecasts don't come true. We've talked a lot in the early 2000s and earlier about deindustrialization and the problem of why we closed down some of the plants. And we in Dalmatia had large production halls that employed thousands and thousands of workers and wondered if we needed it. Of course we do. We needed it then, we need it now. But now we have a chance to transform. So now what's been our last decades or two decades of shortfall, which we haven't had in the industry, now we can use it in our plus. So now that the whole world is going to invest billions in the green transition, there's our chance. Something that we may have destroyed or ruined under the quotes can now be a big kiss for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111846	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111847	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I commend my dear colleague Bačić to your debate because you have really summed up a lot of important things from this bill in what you have now stated. You have also mentioned that there are many benefits of this Law, but also that there is a space for progress, so I would be interested in further development of these events that are very important to us that you suggest like this space that you mentioned in the debate for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111848	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111849	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Ackhar. As far as progress is concerned, I repeat, I think the state is in the right direction and we're going in the right direction. I think the government together with the president is making a great effort and is taking seriously the green transition itself and how much benefit the Republic of Croatia can bring. But I think that certain other institutions, companies, so here you are headed by one unit of local self-government, one relatively large city, and I think everyone should be involved. So here's the first of you to show your example, as you show by example, about environmental protection and foresting your area, and worry about normal and airports and major industries, so that there's a certain balance. But I repeat, there are a lot of mayors here, so you'd better start making chargers and buying electric vehicles. Give an example to others. Don't save on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111850	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111851	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I fully support your debate and the drive to engage in the green transition as much as possible. As far as VAT is concerned, you've talked a lot about it so it should be released. As far as I know in January last year, the European Parliament proposed a resolution on incentives for the purchase of electric cars to reduce CO2 emissions urged the Commission to abolish VAT on electric cars until their market share reached at least 30% of the total number of cars and, of course, to encourage other countries to encourage... Buying a car. [[You don't understand.]] I think that's good and that here in our country we should think about it because really this plan by 2030. ... /The speaker is not disabled/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111852	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111853	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Cosic, for this question, for this replica. I agree with you. The instructions should definitely be followed. We definitely have space and I think we need to be a little bit wider and we need to be a little unconventional, maybe impose certain standards on us by following other countries. This is expensive technology. Every new technology is expensive technology and we need to implement it in our society with incentives that are a great thing because they are expensive vehicles, expensive batteries we must definitely think in the direction and stop VATing on the supply of them because from 0.17 to some 16% of the electric vehicles in the traffic that we are planning by 2030. - The 35th without drastic steps, there's no way we can fulfill it. So here I am going to fight first to lift the VAT on electric vehicles and talk in superlatives in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111854	The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111855	I thank the chairman. I'd look back here in my debate on a few findings that are actually at least let me say speculative. In fact, a colleague in our discussion earlier tells us that the house is being used to isolate materials and that more CO2 is being spent than is later saved. Yes, that's true if a styrofoam is used, if the means of isolation that are now in wide use are used. But if we go back to the old means that used to be, if we go back to the traditional old production, if we go back to the old technologies, then we go back to the hemp, then we're going to get the insulation funds that are actually without CO2 produced. Even more so if we planted hemp, hemp and cleaned air more than forests because it consumes more CO2, it cleaned up the land, therefore, we have a way to solve that problem. It is also related to the same problem with artaturs, too, if you follow the production of armatures a little bit, then you could notice that a lot of new technologies have been produced in the world that are related to the production of hemp fibers that don't actually have to go back into production, they don't consume CO2, or they don't produce CO2, and then they're much more quality than steel arms, primarily because they're resistant to moisture. And I'm bringing this all together in the context of the skepticism that our fellow citizens are actually going to be cut off for buying electric cars because it's very, very expensive. Let's remember, let's remember buying a car on fossil fuels, said a colleague with internal combustion, say 30, 40 years ago. When I graduated from college in '86. Sir, if someone had let me sign the paper that I was going to have one garage in my life and South 45, I would have signed it right away because it would have been big, big, big. Today the situation is different. Prices are dropping, the state takes care of incentives as far as possible. Of course, we are largely provided with money from Europe, therefore, our fellow citizens will certainly be able to buy these electric vehicles tomorrow. Besides, I'll be back on the hemp again. Why? Because of the batteries. Cars are primarily expensive because of batteries and electronics. Lim is as expensive as the car on, with internal combustion. Tires, wheels, that's all the same price. However, what is expensive about electric cars? They're expensive batteries and they're expensive electronics. Now, where do we bring up the hemp again? I don't know if you're following up on what's happening in the world. Canadian experts produced first batteries of hemp with high capacity, the production of these batteries is very cheap. They have more capacity than lithium batteries, they charge faster, they allow more charge, or they are longer, and what is most important, they are environmentally acceptable. So we've already removed the two problems that were mentioned here at the beginning of those discussions, which is the price, here will be the lower price and ecological disposal of lithium batteries that are really creating a big problem today, and we'll have to sort of solve this problem until new technologies are accepted. And there he would also mention and support fellow Vucilović, who mentioned that we must keep in mind that our chargers will not only be those that the state will support on highways and on other roads, but we must primarily keep in mind that we will have chargers in our own houses, in buildings, and that we should take care of it when building houses and when connecting electricity. Without that, our fellow citizens who are going to buy cars will find it hard to pay for it all because now that you're looking at the cost of a car that pays for charging its batteries, it's actually the same as filling it up means diesel or gasoline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111856	Replica has a respected representative, Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111857	Thank you. Dear colleague, I've listened to one of your earlier replicas, and also to the presentations of some other laws. You often refer to that Croatia no longer has an industry, you also mentioned some factories that were well needed by biofuels, biomass and oil derivatives themselves for their successful work. I'm curious, since our industry isn't completely destroyed, there's something on its way out, but it still needs energy, for those producers in your area, what do you think would be the best of different sources of energy, which the state can provide, what we missed, and what would possibly be good suggestions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111858	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've already talked a lot about this at our meetings and round tables, and I think it's very important that we allow our fellow citizens to build solar power plants on their roofs. Without it, we'll have a hard time working. The price of electricity is rising, it's growing unconstitutional. General energy prices are rising. If we make it possible for our fellow citizens, if each of our fellow citizens will have an electric power plant on their roof, we will be able to function differently. We know we're having a problem with incentives right now, but let's make some simple way to help them be, for example, to remove VAT on materials and works for the construction of power plants on our roofs of our fellow citizens. Here, one simple model, so if anyone hears, they can accept it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111860	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111861	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pavić. You have touched two very important issues in your individual discussion. One is about how acceptable batteries are and what's key to this whole green transition. We all know that in their production rare metals are used and in some ways, it is already said that this pollution is literally being replaced. Well, it's not those mines in Europe, it's in South America and China and pollution there, and not here, but if we're globally connected, it's all going to reflect somehow on the global system, and it's one very important issue of taking care of both solar panels and everything else, and the other is this that you've opened up, and that's how much HEP is actually able to do, how much it works to build a network that will actually be able to boost the demand for electricity to meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111862	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111863	As far as I'm concerned, I'll start at the end, as far as HEP is concerned, we've already encountered the first problem when we passed the law. After that, our fellow citizens who tried to put electric panels on their roofs and make their own power plant were limited by a capacity of 3,68 kilowatts. Thus, there was already the first problem. If they wanted to make a community have a problem because I can't put any more, I'm talking about one-phase current, I can't put any more panels on my roof. So these communities come into question even if it's related to the first trafo station, and I'm not talking about aggregates, it creates an even bigger problem for you because let's say if you have a cottage at sea where you have a lot of sun and you want to build a power plant that will supply you with electricity and on land it's almost impossible if, in fact, it's possible to sell that electricity to HEP first, and after that it's... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111864	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111865	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague from the transport sector comes in 23% of total CO2 emissions. These trends are on a steady rise, and the largest volume is taking up road traffic. If we are to achieve decarbonisation, we must surely turn to alternative fuels to be used in transport. But here's a way out of today's debate, it seems to me that there is an unwarranted lack of public transport where buses could use alternative fuels. We have buses in some other Member States on the market and there are relatively good results, so I want to know if you have any idea why, for example, our capital of Zagreb is still underrecognizable and why we do not have public urban transport that would use alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111866	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111867	I must tell you that I have no exact information for which there is no information in the City of Zagreb. The colleague mentioned in her discussion that we have a problem with this very public transport and truck transport and that these are actually the biggest polluters and CO2 producers and so that if you remember last time I tried to distract the secretary when we were talking about this same topic, it would be good to consider additional chargers in the City of Zagreb for hydrogen. Namely, as far as we know in the plan is the production of a gas station in Lučko and in that gas station you would actually charge buses for public transport. And if this really works out in the City of Zagreb, I think we're going to have a lot less CO2 in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111868	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111869	Thank you. A colleague of Pavić's here HSS spoke in the past of the legalization of hemp both for medical purposes and for the use of hemp in the economy because it provides a series of opportunities, some of which you mentioned from isolation, armature and many other things. What I think is that electric energy for cars in this mass use of personal cars as it is today is certainly not the future because the technology of batteries as it is today cannot withstand both raw and chargeable because it is too slow and it is simply impractical to use such electric cars as they are today and what batteries are using. You were also talking about solar power plants at private houses. Only if it is possible to build in the maximum capacity of each roof, building, family house or any other normally that these citizens can charge more of that electricity. Today's policy of this government is not that, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111870	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111871	Yes, unfortunately. Here I go again from the end. We've met with this problem. I also asked that question on the Secretary-General's board. Unfortunately, it says in the law of the explicit that communities are possible only to the first trafo station. And it also says that aggregates can be at supply level. Therefore, we have a problem with legislation again. That's what's holding us back a little bit right now, and on the other hand, we have a problem with HEP that limits us to our roof capacity. If we can't produce excess electricity, if we can't cut back on the funds, it's gonna be hard for someone to get into such investments because here, right now, the return of those funds is about 8 to 9 years. If we could sell one piece of energy, if we could make one smarter policy in that part, I believe that a lot more citizens would invest their own money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111872	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111873	You have touched stories about electric cars, and it is certain that in some future our fellow citizens will own those vehicles, because today we are witnessing that it is simply too expensive. But I don't think we have a plan until when and how much we want that percentage to rise because today we heard in the debate that this percentage is really small. We also have a few thoughts of relatively high quality proposals, such as subsidies, but also reduction of VAT cuts to purchase electric cars. But what was definitely being debated today and what counterpart Mrak Taritash mentioned in her debate that we should go on the road to public transport as much as possible using alternative energy. I can say that we in Pula still bought new buses in 2020 on natural... gas where 88% were subsidized by the European Union. I think that's one time, but I think we're going too slowly that way right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111874	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111875	Yes, unfortunately, that is what I said that when the directives are adopted in Europe, we should be active participants in the adoption of these directives with the aim of actually pushing our ideas. If we have ideas, if we have our own suggestions, we will surely implement these ideas and suggestions in Croatia before that. And what my colleague Petir asked also with public transport in Zagreb, one of the models we have here in Zagreb and the bus on gas. But when I talked to people who deal with energy, they said that the cheapest electricity is actually from nuclear power plants that are over 50 years old. That's the cheapest. After that, it is best and cheapest to drive on hydrogen, i.e. to use hydrogen. But the problem is that these cells are expensive, the production of these engines is expensive and the question is when will we actually be able to achieve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111876	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111877	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. We talk a lot today about electric cars and how and we know there are a lot of bad characteristics of these batteries themselves from a insufficient amount of rare minerals, a great cost of production, a problem with the possibility of self-inflation, a problem with recycling, a problem with long-term filling, a lack of infrastructure. But here's one of the world's largest manufacturers headed one other way, which is the production of hydrogen cars. One such vehicle is already available. We know that hydrogen is an undried source of energy, that it produces in a reaction to oxygen energy which is thus far the densest known energy, that these are cars that will have the range of the cars that we have so far, as with internal combustion engines. And I think that's both the future and the public transport and the private cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111878	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111879	Your Honor, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few words about this. It is that we in Croatia already have one engine that drives on hydrogen, or engine. It's a bicycle that drives on hydrogen for three, four years it already exists and a hydrogen charger exists at the Faculty of Engineering. So as far as this technology is concerned, it is not unknown in Croatia, it is only a question of how much can be applied later in wide production. We know that the Toyotas are intensively involved in the production of hydrogen cars, we know that already a large number of cars have been sold in Western Europe especially in North-West Europe, so we expect that boom to come to us and that hydrogen vehicles will appear with us, and then we'll see if we're ready to accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111880	And the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pavic, you spoke of the benefits of exploiting the full potential of hemp as an insulating material and in the design of batteries for electric vehicles, the Social Democrats Club directed in March to the parliamentary procedure of the bill on the full potential of hemp. Do you think it is time for it to finally be on the agenda of this Croatian Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111882	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111883	My colleague, here's what I wanted to talk about in my closing statement, and now I'm going to say it then we've already referred to the Hemp Act, i.e. cannabis, and I invite everyone to do a little research on what can be produced from hemp, in which way it can be produced, how much it is, in fact, an ecological plant, which is the well-being that brings both soil and air and later in the production of various materials and products. Today, around 70,000 hemp products are produced around the world today, and 70,000 of these new technologies that we now say are now when we were talking earlier about hemp fibers, together with resins, or with some biological binders, are actually possible to produce an armature on the construction site itself. So the isolation for the hemp house is perfect. Please, if you're going to have a chance, if you're going to talk about it, I need to read you a little bit about it to support us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111884	Thank you very much. We will now have a final presentation and, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will be delivered by the respected representative Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law will amend and supplement the existing legal framework for the use of alternative fuels in transport and infrastructure development. It is certainly time to develop all the necessary infrastructure to achieve the development of a sustainable transport system and reduce the negative effects on the environment, and one of the main priorities of today is to certainly build a climate-resistant future. The Republic of Croatia joined the EU towards achieving climate neutrality by 2050. We have already passed a series of laws and measures aimed at reducing the emissions of traffic pollutants. We believe that it is extremely important to harmonise the implementation of this entire eco-law package, so we are harmonising these amendments and amendments to the law as well as implementing regulations with European legislation, and we are also creating preconditions for further development of infrastructure for alternative fuels. In order to allow for the uninterrupted use of alternative fuels throughout the EU, the proposed legislation balances the technical specifications of the charging and supply stations with alternative fuels as well as to be compatible with all vehicle technologies as well as other technological specifications contributing to interoperability of transport. We need to provide enough chargers for alternative fuels because in 2021 every 11th new car in the EU was completely electric and 63% more sold than in 2020. The assessment is to keep up with the demand for electric vehicles until 2035, Europe will need 65 million chargers of this 9 million on public surfaces, and 56 million in living space. In order to ensure infrastructure for the expected 135 million electric vehicles compared to today's around 3.3 million. In the Republic of Croatia, alternative fuels used in transport are electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas and ingested oil gas. According to the European Car Producers' Association in 2021, electric battery vehicles account for 9.1% of all new personal cars registered in the EU, hybrid electric vehicles 19.6% and plages and hybrids 8.9%, which means we have 37.6 cars with reduced or zero greenhouse gas emissions rates newly registered in 2021. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia we have few means of transport, we have few means of transport that do not use petroleum products, they are weak, so they use other alternative fuels in transport although the European Investment Bank’s climate survey shows that 73% of Croats would decide either for hybrid or electric vehicles in the next purchase. Because of this expressed interest, the trend that is present in Europe in almost all the world and because the Republic of Croatia is a largely tourist destination, it is necessary to quickly access the building of the necessary infrastructure. The Green Plan is not just environmental policy, it is an economic and geopolitical need, which is best seen right now as we have this pandemic of geopolitical turmoil and how they have a significant impact on the economy and on the life and standards of citizens. The opportunity is this, of course, for our economy, because the National Recovery Plan brings reforms to Croatia's economic transformation. In fact, the criteria for the allocation of funds are projects that include green transition and environmental protection. It is our political commitment to support, to contribute to Europe's becoming Europe's first climate neutral continent, and I therefore believe that in achieving such ambitious climate targets, all stakeholders and competent resolutions must contribute, and in particular the transport that produces one quarter of the greenhouse gases in the EU. In this context, as well as other laws in this area, we encourage the production and use of alternative fuels in transport, and all vehicle users on alternative fuels including vessels and aircraft should be able to move more easily the EU, using a basic infrastructure that already exists, such as highways, ports and airports, which requires full interoperability of infrastructure. So finally, I want to say that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111886	Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111887	Thank you very much. Here's just a quick appeal to the secretary, and that's that when we're already pushing all our fellow citizens to switch to different vehicles to alternative fuels, we're also taking care of legislation so that it doesn't happen to us like we had the gas case that when we get to the registration, the registration of a car that has gas is built in is 500 to 550 kuna. So we definitely have to take care of that. As far as the alternative fuel chargers are concerned, again one appeal that I already said last time, and that's to think about the charge stations that, which will be for our hydrogen trains, is probably, here we have heard here the exposure of our colleagues, it's probably in the near future, and also in ports for ferry and other shipping. As for the Social Democrats, I said earlier, and I will repeat, you have the Government and the legislators, they will always have our support when it comes to such laws, and we will be sure to do so proactively so that I can tell you right now that we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111888	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We move on to the following, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 275; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 275. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111891	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111892	Excuse me, just a second, I think colleague Oreshkovic is raising her hand, probably wanting a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111893	I thank the president. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. I would like to warn both HS and the media, but the whole public that this Law is another cowardly egg directed by HDZ, which Plenkovic is also mocking anti-corruption mechanisms, but also Croatian citizens. In his corrupt rule, Plenkovic successfully destroyed all anti-corruption institutions and bodies. Therefore, the presentation of these amendments requiring the removal of immunity, i.e. allowing the removal of immunity to those ministers who have a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 5 years has been prevented, can only be a bad and no funny joke, and it is even more ridiculous to explain this by harmonising with some international standards. To begin with, the international democratic standard we see in normal countries would be that every corrupt minister is sought out and carried out a momentary shift, as soon as the affair is announced in the media. Furthermore, these amendments, which are now proposed, which include art. 23 of the current law, they are the highlight of political hypocrisy. Namely, art. 23 and 24 as they have read so far, it is evidence that in the adoption of the Law on Agrokor, the famous Borg group, in which the important ministers, including the prime minister, committed serious corruptive crimes and everything that USKOK and DORH explained, when he rejected criminal charges, was wrong and until we have the DORH that will reopen the case, initiate the proceedings, carry out the investigation and bring charges against Andrej Plenkovic, Marić, Dalićka and others involved in the Borg group, this Law is not worth anything, it should be sent to the devil and not accepted even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111894	Comrade Oreshkovic, we are in HS and this, natural, everyone has the freedom to express their thoughts and everything, but we need to take every thought and every claim very well, especially when we incriminate someone for the crime because you know better than I do, because you are a lawyer, if you incriminate someone for a crime, then you must also report it to certain authorities if you have knowledge that someone has committed a crime. So, otherwise, you're actually a participant. So I suggest we stay away from such qualifications, everything is said, anything can be said, but it's an important way of saying it. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111895	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 238, a deviation from normal behavior in HS precisely because of what you said, but let me say one more thing, a colleague here was talking about destroying institutions dealing with corruption by the government. Well, fellow Oreshkovic, you've been led by such an institution, your judgments are falling down these days like a ribbon. So think about your behavior, what did you do while you were at the head of that body?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111896	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Honorable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111897	Thank you. He's been injured. 238, insulting a parliamentary representative. Dear and esteemed chairman. Your job isn't to give me a lecture and teach me what institutions do and who they can or can't incriminate. This is about the fact that criminal charges existed so they were unfoundedly rejected. Besides, which will give us any criminal charges if the prime minister calls the state's attorney on the phone and tells her, in fact, threatens to warrant me, don't arrest Ministers Banozic and Beros, and perhaps others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111898	Okay. So this, too, wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, to teach you something, if you haven't figured it out yet, and obviously you haven't. I'm not a bench here, I'm not even a ficus. I am holding a session of the Parliament and I am certainly and certainly entitled to say what I think and when I think, especially if something is not in line with the integrity of this House, the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, the manner in which parliamentary representatives should behave. And they're well remembered. I am not here a ficus or bench, but this hour I chair the Croatian Assembly, the highest body elected by Croatian citizens in this country. Of course you're getting a warning. Dear Representative Krunoslav Katičić is looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111899	Dear Vice President and chair of these sessions, colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a 10-minute party to further and again consult, coordinate on.../incomprehensible/... in the review of the proposed Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is known that this is a proposal on the legislative proposal in question, which shows that legislative legislation is in line with the real situation and in real life. And so for now, we keep at the club that it is a proposal that is life-threatening and logical and that consumes analogy with all other legislation in this area. Furthermore, the fact is that in some ways the Government Act is liberalised, which will result in a stronger public involvement in this matter. It is also important to highlight and recall that all these proposed amendments were among other things, the Government's proposal for a 2020-'24 programme. Sir, from the abolition of immunity for corrupt acts under official duty to the regulation of counseling status, which is of legitimate interest now. In this direction, it is necessary to highlight the fact that advisers will sign the so-called a statement as well as other members of this Council, a statement of interest and impartiality, which is a pandan of documents to be signed by other officials. For the end, and by reading today's media, I see that USKOK is interested and is looking for an investigation against the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, and I have not noticed that dear colleagues from the opposition in this case are looking for arrests or actions of the USKOK in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111900	Of course, and this break will be approved. Stanku requested on behalf of the club and respected representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111901	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister. We are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to consult again on the amendments and additions to this Act, but also to find that these amendments and additions to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia are a certain step forward, however, they are not dealing with a crucial problem, which is corruption. Namely, Croatia is a corrupt state and all indicators speak about it. Namely, according to the latest Transparency International, Croatia is in 63rd place as regards the perception of corruption, of 180 countries. It's only 47 points from a potential 100 points. In front of us is one Cuba, one Bhutan, one Rwanda. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia has contributed to these poor results. In the last 6 years of the rule of Andrej Plenkovic, more ministers left the government of the Republic of Croatia due to suspicion of corruption or corruption itself, than in the 6 years of the rule of Ivo Sanader, who was the synonym of political corruption in the Republic of Croatia. And the fish smell like head, not tail. Therefore, this Law, as I said, is a certain step because, among other things, immunity is being lifted for the ministers of corrupt operations, however, it does not solve the essence of the problem, which is corruption as a cancer of the early Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111902	Thank you and this break will be approved. Let me welcome you now, I am truly honored to welcome you to the HS gallery of the 24th Generations of War School Ban Josip Jelačić, led by Brigadier Mia Kozic, Head of War School Ban Josip Jelačić, who are staying for a study visit to HS, so I suggest we welcome them with applause. - Give it up. - Give it up. Thank you very much. Since it's not 1 hour yet, there's no point in starting with the 20-minute opening, we're going to take one break by 1 hour when we're going to take a stand on behalf of the Representatives' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club. MEETING IN 12.53 HOURS We will now return to our point with which we started, and on behalf of the promoter, the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica will speak. Let me remind you this is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the first reading. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111904	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia sets out more precisely the powers of the Secretary-General of the Government, the status of special advisers and members of the Council set up by the Government, and the immunity of members of the Government for corrupt offences being prosecuted by official duty. The proposed amendments shall be made in a clear way that all persons, independently of working-legal status, who have expertise, may be appointed to carry out special adviser’s tasks. The status of special advisers and members of the Council established by the Government is further regulated. This proposal prescribes who may be appointed a member of the council and provides for the obligation to publish information on special advisers and members of the council. Information on special advisers and members of the council will be published in a special form on the government's website within 14 days of the date of their appointment. Also, information on the special advisers of a single member of the Government will be published in a special form on the Ministry's network pages within 14 days of their appointment. In particular, the issue of impartiality of special advisers and council members is regulated and provisions are introduced on the avoidance of conflicts of interest. Special advisers and council members from now on will be obliged to sign a declaration of interests and impartiality within 8 days of their appointment. These provisions will strengthen the preventive anti-corruption mechanism, and the Republic of Croatia will meet another recommendation by GRECO from the fifth evaluation round. In line with the government's programme, it is proposed that immunity be abolished for members of the government for corrupt crimes committed under official duty. Such criminal proceedings will also be possible without prior approval by the Government. Amendments and additions to the Government Act represent an important step towards strengthening the transparency and accountability of the executive authority in the continued repression of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111905	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111906	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, here is what you yourself said and this bill actually falls within the scope of those anti-corruption laws in the domain of this provision that you mentioned in the end about this limited immunity that members of the government will now have. I would mention here that at the end of last year we adopted a strategy in this very home, a new strategy to prevent corruption, so for the '21s. – 2030, when many opposition actually advocates and clubs pointed out that it was only a dead letter on paper or that there would be nothing of it, but I think we can see in fact that all those legal packages or all those laws that you provided for in the strategy itself were actually passed, by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the ZKP, the Penal Code, etc., the Law on Lobby which is now announced in the final and this law. I don't think it was even mentioned and recently published, therefore, a new Doing Business scale where Croatia has advanced 34 seats and a chief chapter of the judiciary where it is said to see great progress precisely in the independence and independence of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111907	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111908	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you've made quite a point in your presentation. So the basis for all the activities we take is the anti-corruption strategy and the measures we take are the result of this anti-corruption strategy. So, we have here a law on government, amendments and additions to the Government Act that actually go further towards strengthening transparency, strengthening the integrity of government members, regulation, regulation of special status or the status of special advisers that have not been regulated so far, and in fact the report of the rule of law and the GRECO report went in this direction to regulate the status of these special advisers, and what is actually stemming from the government's programme is the abolition of immunity for members of the government for criminal offences. So, in further transparency and strengthening integrity we will continue to work. I believe that soon you will come here and the Law on Lobbying so that it is only one of the measures taken under the law, based on an anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111909	The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111910	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you've been fairly quick to present this opening statement of yours. The problem, however, is that you have explained that you are changing this law in order to strengthen preventive anti-corruption mechanisms and you have yet to make a very bad reference to the recommendations of GRECO. It's a joke because you've read and implemented them very selectively in national legislation. In fact, GRECO well warned that Article 5 of the former Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was the central and most important body of this law, that law and GRECO pointed out the need to ensure enforceability. E, according to your amendments to the law in accordance with your anti-corruption strategy, the principle of violation of the principle of action for government officials is no longer available in the executive government. Neither in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest or in this Ethics Code you've adopted these days. What about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111911	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111912	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so I think we have a debate on this article 5. The law on the prevention of interest was implemented at the end of last year when a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was passed, and in fact you are now a representative in the Croatian Parliament who built a political career on the wrong application of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Since you are a lawyer and you respect the legal order and the legal system, and I believe that you also respect judicial decisions, and there were them on the decisions of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I think it is clear to all of you that you have misapplyed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, have come out on the basis of the powers which are yours and built your political career on this. So your mouths are full of independent bodies, and in fact you and your wrong decisions have disabling these bodies yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111913	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111914	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Prime Minister Plenkovic claimed he would lift immunity for members of the government. Then he eased his stance and claimed he would end immunity for members of the government for corrupting crimes. And now we have a proposal to abolish immunity because of corrupt acts when prosecuted by official duty. Why this mitigation took place, and why the government now proposing such a law did not immediately remove the immunity of members of the government when we had a case but considered the prime minister what he would do. That discussion lasted 15-20 days. How do you know this change in attitude because you're a close associate of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111915	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111916	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as you pointed out, what I pointed out in the opening part of this is that this stems from the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme where we announced an actual elimination of immunity. So it's another anti-corruption measure that this government is implementing. So, from the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Law on Reporters of Irregularity, it will soon come here as I have said the Law on Lobbying. I think that with this government she has actually shown her attitude towards fighting corruption and I think that strengthening the integrity and strengthening the prevention of the fight against corruption is something that this government is constantly working on and will work in the future and it is actually showing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111917	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111918	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in the media read that as one of the measures to strengthen the fight against corruption, the Prime Minister said he would propose that immunity be abolished for all corrupt acts that are being prosecuted by official office for government members and would bring the Code of Conduct of State officials to the executive government. Now I'm wondering if the code is made and when it will be passed because apparently some government officials do not have ethical integrity in their backyard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111919	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111920	Thank you very much. Well, here I am to inform you that the government has passed the Code of Conduct of Officials in the executive government. In fact, it has also fulfilled both the obligation and the measure resulting from the anti-corruption strategy so that this is this one that is another indicator of how government and what measures everything is taking and what it does to strengthen integrity, transparency, but also the fight against corruption. So here it is expected that HS will soon adopt the Code of Conduct of Parliamentary Representatives, the government has adopted its own and has met the recommendations of GRECO concerning and, of course, the report from the rule of law that concerns it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111921	Thank you very much, Minister. You may return. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored Representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111922	This law is one big nothing. When USKOK and the DORH launch the persecution of certain government officials in the government and even here, our parliamentary deputies, who are here to protect the famous immunity, we know what is going on and what is supposed to happen is that this is a normal country. This should be the end of our political career until we confirm whether we are responsible or not, then in every normal country one who is not responsible would have returned to politics, would have had the moral credibility to return to politics because he proved his innocence, the one who would have been found guilty of that story, of course, would have had to serve a prison sentence. Discussing that the government now wants to appear as one who is open to being examined within the government itself, and that after the fact that we had three government officials against whom the investigations were launched, and the government itself did not really want to question and the prime minister himself would do what in that case when we called off then Plenkovic realized that he had to remove those three and did not go into this broader reconstruction which he was also thinking about because he was trying to fool the public that it was some sort of arbitrary decision he wanted to refresh the government, and not the consequences of the fact that the ministers had been struck by the investigating bodies, so I can't call this law anything different than one big thing. This law will not contribute to the fight against corruption, the fight against corruption can only be contributed by independent institutions that we do not have because the Prime Minister calls us the State's Attorney-General by telephone, but this only shows his despair this is not the same as Andrej Plenkovic as Andrej Plenkovic in 2017 or '18. when I asked him here about a case of corruption in the MVEP when he was here from this place, then he shouldn't have called the attorney general, then it was enough to get up here and say such notions don't lead to anything. The same day he said it here with the highest position in the DORH country he rejected a criminal report. And you know what happens now after five years? Now they call Sabelak to give his statement in the DORH, five years no one called him, five years of his agony, he's away from the service because he exposed corruption in the MVEP. Today Plenkovic is much weaker, today he needs to call on the phone, on his cell phone, and it shows how desperate he is when he is willing to make such cardinal mistakes. Just as this decision by the Constitutional Court is a cardinal mistake of the ruling. Stopping the will of 400,000 people still admit to them in the Open says "the constitutional court is our brakes to stop the people" I quote to stop you from stopping the people. The Constitutional Court is our brake watch, watch those words. The Constitutional Court is our brake, a brake for the people just like the DORH this whole time was your outpost to which you sent messages here from HS, and now they're already a little out of control now they need to be called on their cell phone so that something happens to Banozic. But one far more dangerous thing than all of this is this rulebook or whatever it's called, what the government is bringing, code of conduct. You know what the code says? Now I'm going to quote, no one has noticed, and I've gone to see what you're writing, he says, "The official is obliged to keep all the information and information he learns about in the conduct of his duties, which he is not obliged to publicly publish in accordance with the law." So Plenkovic forbids government officials to say anything other than what they have to publish under the law. No mother, all confidential, distracted as a mob, as a mob, that's your code. Well, I guess we have degrees of secrecy, very secret, secret, confidential, limited. So, you hear something in the government, you see a Pubovec and Horvat agreeing on some kind of support, you hear as a minister there for something, but there's nowhere to say a word about it, except what you're legally required to publish. You see, Boric comes to Aladrovic and tells him to set up some kind of contest, but there's no mother you can't tell anyone about it, distracted, almost like a mob. I called on Croatian citizens yesterday and I call on the people from this place again that if they want to remove this corrupt click from power to contact us, we have to connect, we have to organize and we have to prepare ourselves seriously, and we will be ready for autumn. We have shown and now with 600,000 votes they hold all segments of this country all the institutions have occupied, this constitutional court is only a symbol of this captured state, and there are 400 thousand of us, if we are well organized, if 400 thousand of us try to bring us to at least one more man we will succeed in what we intend, and that will remove them from power, free our institutions, and then there will be no law of silence, then there will be no distractions, but those who do corruption, those who surrender to corruption, will be struck by independent institutions that will finally receive the freedom that is so much needed, only two preconditions and two prescriptions to fight corruption, it is not this ridiculous law, it is transparency and it is also free institutions and that will provide Croatian peoples. I'm very pleased with how many people we have here, how dissatisfied people are with what they've done by ruling and their constitutional court, and I'm convinced that in this purpose, of course, we will succeed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111923	Comrade Grmoy, if you have any knowledge that a colleague, Boric, has made an illegal deal with someone and that he is a member of the mob... you behind this pay phone, then please absolutely report it to the DORH because otherwise it is a very serious slander and abuse of this pay phone. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You said it, so I'm a meter away from you and I hear very well for now this one. I give you this warning. Uh, here's what hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111924	Please listen to what I said. 238, I said that according to this new rule and code, if someone heard that Boric and some government minister were setting up a competition with Minister Aladrovic that he couldn't say anything about it, that's one potential situation. So Minister Aladrovic is no longer a minister, so the situation is practically impossible now, but it was a picture and symbol of this code and regulation proposed by the government. [[No, no, it's taken you, it's taken you and you've talked differently.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111925	My colleague Bolmo, you were carried away and you spoke differently, and I am the foundation of your article. The 240th century of the 1st century is the second warning. This colleague, Boric, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure, please. I told my people that the Rules of Procedure had been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111926	Thank you very much, Art. In 238, Mr. Grmoy disrespects me, but also the Constitutional Court and anyone he wants, means first he's lying, as he's publicly lying on TV, and here today on the pay phone, and that's no problem at all. What's he lying about? He's lying about being a constitutional court, so I'll remind him, in 2013, '14, '15. Three referendums on Cyrillic, outsourcing, the monetization of highways, how then the Constitutional Court made good decisions and everything was fine until this referendum of yours. You lie to Croatian citizens every day all day and you never get enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111927	Okay, this was a replica, this one and I give you a warning. Comrade Grmoy, you have two warnings you're aware of, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111928	I want to warn you that an officer has been injured. In 238, Boric deceives the public, he well knows that in 2016 the elected judges of the constitutional court, among them some who falsely represented themselves in Austria for whom he voted, and I did not, although Tomislav Klausky writes for 24 hours that Most voted for these judges of the Constitutional Court, no, they voted together SDP and HDZ and that is true. The only one lying here is Mr. Boric and Tomislav Klausky for 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111929	Okay, that was, that was a replica, and I need you to base an article. In 240th century, 2nd century, give notice by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this subject. Let's move on, the next Club of Representatives is the Social Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davorko Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111930	Thank you. With respect to Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, here was the first thought about reading this bill, so okay, two recommendations of GRECO have been adopted, indeed it seems that the transparency of government and its members, the advisers, the special advisers, which is very good because it is very good for people who have a very big, very big influence, a very great power, and this is not in any way seriously regulated, nor are they included in officials, nor are they really in a transparent way present in the public, which I would say, that certainly improving this aspect, by strengthening preventive anti-corruption mechanisms through this additional reduction of government officials' security in protecting all the characters of the criminal prosecution for corrupt acts, and I think that the change of this law would probably have been a majority of support in this collection, but rather the much more important issue has been recognised by GCO's concerns about the fact, the lack of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the most of the fact that the GCO has been made of the problem in the most of the most of this matter is true and the problem. I do not remember at all that there have been examples of so many shifts, I do not remember that any president of Croatian governments has been forced so many times to defend his ministers and then three, four, five days or a week after that to replace them, to convince the opposition to the public that they can put on eyelashes, but that he will per se. It has never been in Croatian practice, and I don't remember it or is not familiar enough in European. So this is definitely a political practice that I do not believe can change any amendments to several articles of law that neither GRECO nor El Greco can change, but only a change in political culture that is neither simple nor quick, but it certainly involves political punishment for the defendants of such political practice, it requires setting the strictest requirements for all public officials, their full transparency, public exposure, precisely defined responsibility. Protecting independent institutions, as my predecessor said a moment ago, keep the media completely free and ensure full access to information, transparency, independent media, independent institutions and their strengthening, is a serious business and serious effort. This is about another big problem, this is about the problem simply, I would say the systematic collapse of the country's institutions. When the prime minister says what I can do, when he says it to the parliamentary deputies, then he has made it clear to the entire Croatian public, to all those who have elected us parliamentary representatives here and any demonstration, and it is such a common case, and there is no exception to contempt for the highest and downsizing of the highest legislative body of the whites is the confirmation of what we Social Democrats consider to be a great danger, and there is no exception to the decommissioning of the institutions of this country in which it is not only involved, here we are specifically talking about the government, but there are a huge number of political actors involved, and if the political accusations of each other through the holders of these main duties in those institutions are reduced to personal accounts, insults, it means the degradation not only of the one who is being demoted and attacked but also the very institution in whose name is spoken. What we're tracking as a problem of communication is that between the government's institution and the government's president, what we're doing is really showing all the destructive power of destroying the institution and one and the other. However, the problem is much greater, Croatian citizens do not trust institutions, we have one of the lowest levels of social capital based on social trust in Europe. Our people don't trust anyone or anything anymore. When in a study done three years ago, I think, they asked young people who they trust most, who is an institution that enjoys trust. I was amazed and worried and worried about the fact that they trusted the military, the police and the Church most. The situation, the reputation of institutions such as the political institutions of the President of the Republic, government, HS, units of local self-government, etc., all of this is actually all at such a low level that the question of how we can function as a society at all, how to lead the state, how to regulate important social processes with such a low level of social capital. And I would say that in fact the attitude and attitude towards the state and its institutions is the worst possible way shown in the fact that in just seven, eight years Croatia has left a dozen of its citizens, that in Croatia people actually feel sad, unhappy and dissatisfied and that we are 58th in the world seem to me at the level of satisfaction of people living in this country. Is there really a reason for that? What is the basis of this sadness, of that accident, of that sadness? Not only material indifference, this is much more about not believing the key institutions of the country, and the basis for all this is corruption. Corruption, abuse of position, guessing, clientism, all that's what's been perpetuating for 30 years, which becomes an integral part, I'd say culture. It says that we're actually like a political generation, I mean these people who have been doing this job like I have for 30 years that we've completely failed. Maybe we'd really talk, talk about my generation, ask our citizens for an apology and a word about what kind of society we've built. 80% of our citizens view corruption as very widespread, and another 18.2% of people in this country don't believe, trust institutions and think, it's perception, and think most often I'm afraid with the right that it's people who act in public functions of abuse of their position, their positions and do not work at all public interest. Gentlemen, I think that regardless of our political commitment, I don't think that people who don't think like me, who have a different world view that the Priors are unfair, nor do I think the unfair ones are reserved for just one political party. But if we don't realize that this is a challenge, a key challenge, an imperative challenge for our generation, to get rid of that evil and to return people's faith in being able to live in this country in an honest and dignified way. We missed our basic mission that we're accomplishing in this House. In particular, the amendment of the Government Act, and tomorrow to another institution, is a tool, but without responsible application There will be no change in that tool. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111931	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111932	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, So, first of all, what I would like to stress at the beginning of the debate is that we finally meet some of the things that GRECO asked us to do, and now we can assume that it is under a lot of those amendments that we are doing many of those other legislative frameworks, and that we are harmonising with the EU and the gains that we should accept as such and operate in them. But what I can agree with my colleague Vidovic is that for 30 years, public opinion has been created, a perception that has led to the fact that without having a lie we can determine that citizens simply do not trust the institution of this country and that we often talk too often about why it is so, what can be done differently and from year to year other than law-making obviously did not make the right click that even citizens start to look differently at the institutions themselves and believe in this country. We've had a number of corruption affairs for 30 years, some under a lot more light stage, let's do a lot less. But what was the taste of everything, the honor of exceptions that came to the judgments of power, and where there was still someone in the end who ended up doing a lot of things in obsolescence, a lot of things ended up on the run across the border, and a lot of things turned into the one at the end the wolf ate the donkeys. The amendment also coincides with the arrest of Minister Horvat as the first arrested minister in a government, as well as the opening of investigations against some other ministers. Some have returned to these constituency benches. But we lost the point again, we lost focus and what we only managed to stab and listen to these days that coincided with the amendments to this law is the debate of the institutions themselves again. On the one hand, on the Constitutional Court, where we can now find that the Constitutional Court is too often in political debates and political interpretations, and now, of course, the question is how and how the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected, and it is obvious that we have a problem, as it is obvious that we have a problem in both the State's attorney's office and the understanding of what the DORH should be. Because I think we can all agree that it's not a normal situation in any country that wants to be polite, democratic, modern, that we have a dispute and a debate between the prime minister and the president who pushed the state's attorney harder and who called the state's attorney at any time. Anyone who is real at the end of the day will agree with himself that it should not happen in normal countries and that it would simply be so absolutely unacceptable. And in such an environment, we are coming to these new legislative changes where some things within the functioning of the government are being agreed, where we are coming to the ministers being stripped i.e. You won't have to ask for immunity, because as such you won't have it. And when we look at everything that happened and how it happened, we should clap and say yes, that's it and that's it, and that's all we wanted. But the key question is how did we get into such a situation that we must at all discuss the removals of immunity to ministers, parliamentary MPs, so that we have any tensions whether and when we will take off and how all these 30 years of Croatian politics works and why. This can be said that it is commendable at the end of the day, because finally the Prime Minister is making one of his promises even now late in 2016. But definitely the reasons that have led us to this are not something we should admire and what we should take as one great old one, that Croatian politics has led us to this very state of consciousness and politics itself, and that is even worse about the perception of the policies that are then reflected on all the other institutions of this country, especially those of a la Constitutional Court, State Attorney's Office, Supreme Court, and that I do not now list all these institutions that should be absolutely independent in their basic code and in fact be an ideal society to have them in parliamentary debates and after that, and in media affairs neither we have, nor mention, nor that there is a need for that. One more thing that I must stress in these legislative changes, although it is not now visible here and asks us what should be done by this famous commission that will establish ethical principles, because we have independent institutions, we have the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, we have ultimately and other bodies dealing with certain matters, and we view it as a new step, and we know that in Croatia, commissions are usually there to do something wrong or never solve, or just as a continuation of the strip and powers and possibilities of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, in fact as if our goal and these further steps are to make this commission absolutely irrelevant and absolutely unimportant, that our goal is to no longer question public action, nor to seek out information or public to present what is happening in Croatian politics and Croatian public functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111933	The next club of representatives will be that of CENTRA and GLAS, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111934	Dear opposition MPs, you five-six as many of you as you are right now, and I hope at least someone else listens to the clubs on constituency television. But also here are the media and the professional and interested public all of you normal. I invite you not to let HDZ make fools of all of us. I call upon you not to let their countless times-said lies suddenly become the truth. And as President Reiner wouldn't have accidentally warned me in any way, because I know that he will use every opportunity to do so, I will now point out in the opening statement that in this speech I will strictly stick to Articles 23 and 23a. which propose to change these amendments and amendments to the law. And based on precisely these provisions, I want to prove that key anti-corruption and independent institutions in the Republic are completely down and we can now just take a whistle in our hands and declare the end. After that, wait even longer and 2 years to pass the mandate of this government, and after the next elections, hopefully we can start rebuilding the country from the beginning. And here's the thing. So one of the proposed new provisions in this law is. Article 23a, in the event of a situation that violates or threatens to distort the impartiality of a special adviser or constitute the existence of a conflict of interest or of a potential conflict of interest, a special adviser shall be obliged without delay to inform the Prime Minister or any other member of the Government for whom he carries out advisory tasks. Do you know what these language complexes mean? Possible conflicts of interest? It's potential conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest. That's what the verdict against Tomislav Karamark is about, a potential conflict of interest. On that sphere of which the Constitutional Court itself was concerned when it was not a political order there in 2012 said that it was precisely the main task of the Commission to decide on conflicts of interest, to deal with potential conflicts of interest, so those who have not yet been realised and who do not smell of a corrupt criminal act, because when it already smells of corruption, that responsibility of the Committee of Conflict of Interest ceases and the case should be dealt with by other competent authorities such as USKOK, DORH or perhaps another. Now, what is it about, and why the verdict against Tomislav Karamark fell, and where did it fall? Well, gentlemen, darlings, she didn't fall because of my misreading of authority and detour and the work of the commission's jurisdiction. She fell to the Constitutional Court on a political order, and it was not Tomislav Karamark but to protect Andrej Plenkovic and his government, who at that time, I am talking about July 2019 already had several open cases before the Commission itself, from traveling to Helsinki, from the appointment of the person with whom Plenkovic was in the godfather's relations for ambassadors in Great Britain and the famous affair of Agrokor and Borg. In 2019, although I was no longer in the commission at the time, the commission had the power to decide on the so-called infringements of the principle of action, of ethical principles. Ethical principles. Many decisions, not only against Tomislav Karamark, were made there and many others, were confirmed for years in the first-degree administrative courts, and who also at the Visko Administrative Court, so the first-degree Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court confirmed the decision in relation to Tomislav Karamark. Not all these lawyers, specifically judges, the judges of administrative courts at the time were stupid, but they did their job properly, according to the law. As well as international standards and documents speak and order. Among other things, the GRECO himself has been called here and the legislator. Until the Constitutional Court ruling that we have some kind of a different political task of saving Private Ryan, I'm sorry not Ryan, but Andrei Plenkovic. That's basically what this is about. What happened after the famous and incomprehensible and bad and sacrade decisions of the Constitutional Court? Well, as a dominoe, all the judgments of administrative courts that had no more or less manovaric space have fallen. But something else happened. Much more dangerous. And this is that there was a HDZ, and Plenkovic had a chance after, a little while of time from 2019 to 2022, the media stopped following the commission, the topic was no longer of interest and importance to anyone, the law changed. And now a commission called the Committee of Decision on the conflict of interest on these ethical principles of action can no longer decide, but who can? Andrey Plenkovic can do it through some kind of nakaradian proxy body. My colleague Nadj asked what happened to the Ethics Code, here it is, adopted recently. May 6, 2022. Code of conduct of state officials in the executive authorities. You know who's supposed to follow those ethical principles? The President-in-Office of the Government, members of the Government, etc. Interestingly, no counselors are included in these ethical principles. There is no advisor here even though it is GONG, and I disagree with the team, and I also suggested that counselors, because of the influence they have on the decision-making process, should be covered by the rules of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. They're not there, they're hidden, they're nonexistent, underneath work. They're not even in this code. Now, let's go to the side of that. Do you know how today would be a decision on the Tomislav Karamark case? Well, it doesn't take a lot of imagination to figure that out and answer with regard to the body that's going to decide. That's what this is about. So the commission as an independent institution can no longer deal with officials. Some council would be involved, so some council in which Plenkovic would place his two ministers, some lower-ranked official and some two men from the university who would serve as a fig tree would decide, among other things, on the potential conflict of interest, because in this code and this potential conflict of interest, the entire system was even greater than the new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and now I have come up with such a code as to adopt the ethical principles of action for local officials, in particular for council members, and I have seen what it says, are prescribed, literally prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and so, among other things, a definition of potential conflict of interest, so it is possible that someone could use it in a private way. Now I'm asking you, if we're going to have 576 ethical commissions at every city level, municipalities, county plus this still ethical commission at, at government level, what standards will there be, what would be a potential conflict of interest if what was then put on Tomislav Karamark wasn't a potential conflict of interest? And to point out once again for all those who are not yet clear. No one has ever said or determined legally that Tomislav Karamarko was in a potential conflict of interest. No, no, no, it is not disputed, it is disputed whether the commission has the power to decide, and it was the constitutional court that said in 2019 that it was not so that Andrej Plenkovic could come up with a body that would appoint him, appoint every dirty corrupt action of him and his ministers, which is essentially the case, so don't mention the Anti-Corruption Strategy, because during the HDZ rule, this strategy that we have in view of its content and implementation plans serves only to let corruption off the chain, to strengthen it, to do whatever it wants. That's why we have a situation where the Prime Minister can allow himself in one etho to call democracy, call the rule of law, call the state to pick up the phone to the attorney general and say don't touch me, don't touch me, don't arrest me, don't process my ministers like Banožić, Broš and others. And later in a single speech, I'm going to say a little bit more about the role of art. 23. As this provision now reads, in a corrupt affair called the Borg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111935	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111936	Dear Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the law make up a certain step, especially the part about removing immunity from government officials or ministers, but they do not solve that crucial problem, which is corruption. Namely, we need to recognise ourselves Croatia is a corrupt state and all official indicators confirm this, namely, according to Transparency International's latest indicators, Croatia is about the corruption perception index at 63rd place of 180 countries and in the last 3rd. It's either stagniating or falling. We have 47 points of potential 100, 17 less than the EU average. As for the perception of the corruption index in front of us is one Rwanda, one Bhutan, one Cuba, not to mention Western European or Nordic states, and there is the biggest problem of our country. Unfortunately, such poor results as regards the corruption perception index have both been contributed by the government and this one and the previous because it has been in the last 6 years. Prime Minister Plenkovic's rule has left the government on suspicion of corruption or corruption itself than in 6 years. The rule of Ivo Sanader, who is realistically looking at the synonym for political corruption in the Republic of Croatia. And as you say, the fish smell like a head, not a tail, and that's why we're here. As far as immunity itself is concerned, it should also be said that at least so far no one has avoided prosecution by officials in the Republic of Croatia because of his immunity, this immunity has only slowed him down a little, the process in a few hours or a few days. Now wound cancer is just corruption, and that's what matters is how to solve this very corruption. It must not be reduced to just one ordinary piece of paper, in this case to this law, but to strengthening the institutions, the state's attorney's office, the U.S.K.A., the judicial authorities that need to have larger financial resources, which must not be influenced by both the prime minister and the president of the state and indeed be those independent bodies. So, what about the law on lobbying that's been waiting somewhere in the drawer for years, when that lobbying is going to come out of that gray zone, when we're going to know exactly what's going on in the sphere of corruption and what's not? Recently we have a appointed Minister Paladin who has partnered with Russian businessmen, and the property has been acquired in a rather suspicious manner, now he manages state property. It is no secret that it was and was not the first choice for the minister, but was subsequently recommended by certain lobbying joints. The story of fighting corruption without lobbying laws falls simply into the water. As I said, it is a step and we are very likely to support these amendments and amendments to the law on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, but essentially this problem will not be solved with just a few of these amended articles without strengthening the judicial bodies that will really be affected by corruption itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111937	The next team club will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111938	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can say in the introduction that we will support the legislative proposal in question, which amends the provisions of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As I said in my search for a break here, it is specifically about a single case or a legal proposal that literally... more liberal relations and suggestions, or styles and clarifies some of the provisions that are lifelike and that are actually happening, and anyone who is well-intentioned, especially in that part of the concept of the establishment of some new institutes, so that those life and real functions that are being brought into existence can actually be realized, but they have not been regulated so far. It has already been told several times during the debate that certain requirements laid down by the international body are being implemented here. GRECO and this is also true because the overall reform of the judiciary and partly related to these parts are put in part under the government's 2020-2024 programme. These things, i.e. such forward behaviour of HDZ as a party that has received clear support from Croatian citizens, are in some way being omitted or neglected, which means that this is already from the very introduction and awareness of obtaining election results, it is included that the government gives a clear emphasis on the world of anti-corruption activities. Of course, it's one process that lasts, which has its tools, which has its elements. I remind you, this is just one of the elements that happens in the overall reform and the integration of all modern anti-corruption systems into Croatian legislation, so now it is the turn of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here, in particular, this is quite interesting for the public and for the debate, the fact that immunity is lifted for the members of the government for corruptive crimes that are being prosecuted by official duty, can only say that this is certainly not a word of any kind of pressure that has come about because of some recent cases that are happening but literally this leads to one transparency of attitude and a clear political vision that the Croatian government has and will raise certain standards to many, much greater elements and much stronger power will give than it has been with hiding behind the existing solutions that have been here since 1998. Of course, as a lawyer, it can be said that only society and the legal system are evaluating and making certain new trends in their relations, which must also be adapted to legislation. It's already shown here, although there is criticism, but I think it's great that we have a statement of interest and impartiality if you're going in law and in life when you apply for any business in any company or anything like that, every more serious company has such a similar statement. Here, of course, what I said earlier when looking at the whole aspect and the whole system that happens by adopting an ethical code last Tuesday, last Thursday at the government, surely these provisions of this legislative proposal are further incorporated into the law and give what should be measured, and that is that every member who participates mostly occasionally participates in part of the government, and the electoral winner can choose his associates with this statement, giving additional certainty that power will also be handled in those parts. Of course, there may be a question of what this means in relation to some officials, but the fact is that not all officials have to be sufficiently specific in order to be able to carry out certain tasks which, given the circumstances that are transparent and happening, can be sufficiently educated and can take advantage of their knowledge. I therefore think that by introducing this and regulating it is a clear regulation of the relationship of advisors, it further provides certainty that these visions, which are shown to be important and fulfilled. Finally, this proposed legislative proposal is another safe one of the activities in the anti-corruption relationship and a clear definition of the Croatian government and the HDZ club in the fight against these activities. In just a few months, I have already mentioned a number of legislative proposals that show that there is a clear plan, there is clear dynamics and the way these things will improve and bring. I remember starting with amendments to the Penal Code, litigation law, bankruptcy law, and the very adoption of a new Ethics Code at the end of the day and with this bill. All this is in the opinion of the Croatian Democratic Community club for the purpose of preserving and strengthening the institutions of the state. There is a particular opposition that citizens do not trust the institutions of the state. It's simply not true, I can testify because when it comes to the stand-pani situation, when it comes to bone, then everyone is talking and calling on state institutions for activities. The best example for you is the payment of these salaries, i.e. when the pandemic occurred in the middle of the pandemic, threatened the economic stalemate, and suddenly the state was a savior, which was ultimately timely and timely activities and well-hitted measures and proved. And today is now a recent event with a strike in public transport and it is forgotten to point out that they still use today the fees provided by someone other than the state. So I think it is clear from the citizens themselves that they want it to be as much institutionalisation as possible and that the Croatian state is investing in its institutions, because what is the alternative? A certain anarchy. I am deeply convinced that Croatia wants, does not want anarchy, but wants security and peace and trust in these institutions. So once again, I would like to remind you that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111939	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111940	As I announced article 23, part two, before I begin, I will briefly respond to all those who these days mention that I have built my political career on conflict of interest and Tomislav Karamark. No, I only complemented my legal career here that awaits me when one day this agony ends, and quite frankly I admit that there was no Borg affair, that there was no way in which the law on Agrodor was passed and that in 2019 I read all the things that those who were to be prosecuted said to USKOK I would never enter politics. But that was the moment I said it and now I'm really sick of it. I've had enough, and here's why? The current Article 23, which is now being upgraded by these amendments and additions, says the following: In order to determine the situation, to develop strategic development plans and analyses, to prepare proposals and to coordinate the implementation of individual projects under the Government Programme, and to provide for specific questions of a permanent or occasional nature of importance to carry out the duties of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister may appoint advisers, special advisers or set up advice and appoint members of the Council. There is also an article 24 that says that the Government, therefore, as a collective body, can establish permanent and occasional working bodies to make proposals, opinions, or expert explanations on issues from its own circle. Does anyone remember who wrote the Agror Law? Does anyone remember what Martina Dalic said to the Committee on the Economy? I wrote the law, I wrote the law! Wasn't that right? And what happened later? It turns out that some interesting group under cover of nights in low budget restaurants was building the fate of Ivica Todorovic and his company, and yes, sorry, sorry. It was about persons who were not members of any task force, nor were they special advisers, and why do I say so? Because there were no acts by either the Prime Minister or the Government as a whole which gave these people from the Klobuchar lawyers to various future advisers in Agrokor himself, so no one was given authority, no one was given legitimacy, no one was given the right to have access to privileged information based on which the Government would establish future regulations. And nowhere, nowhere in the world in any normal state, in any state in which there is a rule of law, can one happen, so I dare say gang, not Borg group. The Borg group reminds me of now I'll say wrong, so my members will crucify me to the cross whether Star Wars or Star Trek, Star Trek there. The Borg is nice, and the gang isn't, and this was a gang that designed to dissipate other people's property. And one day all proceedings against Ivica Todorovic could fall and not only cost these proceedings could happen, but also compensation for the company taken away would be paid by taxpayers. And I return to the beginning of what Andrej Plenkovic, Martina Dalic, and Maric, who was at the moment when he told his friends, acquaintances and other people, come now to the government, did not give them legitimacy, did not inform the public and citizens who these people were. Come on, guys, figure out what kind of law you like, and then he literally told his obedient doves in the assembly benches, give it to you tomorrow. And then USKOK said that because there is a Assembly collective body there is no corruption or conflict of interest here. And he put on paper one of the most embarrassing sentences of Croatian legal thought, which is that the law designed an informal working group, informally there is no such thing, this law Article 23 and 24 say. So if you have a task force or special advisors please bring in an act. And now, in order for this authority's hypocrisy to be complete, it is now only now proposed that data on special advisors and council members will be published in a special form on the government's web pages or in the resolution ministry. So what a theater of absurdity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111941	Thank you. Now she will speak to the respected representative of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in most cases, the legislator of the law and its amendments and additions, although it is the right of any representative, club representatives and working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. It was therefore expected when amendments and additions to the Government Act were made, that these amendments and additions should not only be as stated in the reasoning of the law with the aim of strengthening preventive anti-corruption mechanisms and harmonising with the recommendations set out in the report of the fifth evaluation round of the GRCO, but also with the aim of making and implementing so-called ‘GRCO’. smart legislation covering the whole cycle of public policy creation, from identifying problems and objectives, developing public policy options, making legislative acts, implementing, evaluation and revisions, with the opinion of those to whom these legal texts and concerns actually apply. It is clear that the draft laws do not include members of the government, or the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents and ministers, and it is therefore important to surround themselves with expert advisors and of course to a good public administration. Therefore, it is not sufficient that only in the reasons set out in Article 2 of these amendments and additions, and not in the legal provision itself, it shall indicate that persons with expertise in the exercise of the role of the Prime Minister shall be appointed as a special adviser. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: The Act amending and supplementing the Government Act states that persons may be appointed independently of their working legal status for the special adviser referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, and the decision to appoint them may also provide for compensation for their work. Article 23(1) of this Government Act provides that in order to determine the state of development of strategic development plans, analysis, etc., the President of the Government may appoint, advisers, special advisers or set up advice, appoint members of the Council. It is clear that these are the most complex jobs that require great expertise, great expertise in the public administration, so it would not be good to appoint a person who enjoys the confidence of the Prime Minister for any reason of any party membership or personal knowledge without having any expertise. The inadequacy and non-implementability of certain strategic documents and action plans followed by them are obviously also a reflection of the lack of expertise of advisers not appointed by the principle of expertise but only according to the party's identity card. In addition, in Article 2(2), the following paragraph is added: The Law amending and supplementing the Government Act states that the decision to appoint a special adviser may also provide compensation for their work. What a fee it is and what it depends on is nowhere to be indicated. Where is this transparency that so many rulings are called upon? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act amending and supplementing the Government Act stipulates that a special adviser, a member of the advice set out in Article 23 of this Law, is obliged to carry out his duties legally and impartially in order not to put his private interest ahead of public interest. It is pathetic to choose persons who may be in conflict of interest for a special adviser and members of the council. What kind of advisor does not understand the Institute of Conflict of Interest and does not warn the Prime Minister before the appointment itself. In this case, their statement of interest and impartiality will not help either. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the result of frequent indictments against members of the government over corrupt crimes. It is thus proposed that Article 4, in Article 4, be read in Article 34(1). The Government Act which has been prescribed that criminal proceedings against government members cannot be conducted during the duration of the term of office for a criminal offence for which up to 5 years of imprisonment has been prevented without prior approval, the Government shall add an item 2 which shall be read, with the exception of paragraph 1 of this Article, a criminal offence against a member of the Government without prior approval of the Government for corrupt offences for which the prosecution is carried out under official duty. So, the Prime Minister said that as one of the measures to strengthen anti-corruption, he would propose the abolition of immunity for all corrupt crimes, which is in fact this law in this regard, and would bring the code of conduct of state officials in the executive government as we see it. But no legal norms and codes will help to combat corruption at the highest level of government officials unless the organisational culture changes amongst the ruling and if high-ranking officials are appointed persons with no ethical integrity whose conflict is of interest to the foreign concept and who think that the state budget is a pig bank and grabs it while it has, but it has become less and less and less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111943	The next debate will be a respected representative of Marijan Pavlicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111944	The Honorable Chairman. Croatia is a corrupt state and corruption is unfortunately in all areas of society, from lowest to greatest. You have to have a relationship with us in order to get a doctor's appointment, for some x-ray, you need to have a connection to get some incentive, you need to have a job contact, when the police stop you, then you'll talk about having small receipts so that you can see through your fingers and that's the problem of Croatian society number one. These amendments and additions to the law, I'm afraid that although they are probably made in good faith, they will remain just a dead letter on paper. Since Croatia, however, no official has avoided prosecution for his immunity. That prosecution is only a little slowed down in a few hours or a few days until his immunity is lifted. So, even here, the crucial thing does not change, and that is exactly the cancer of Croatian society's early corruption society. According to all indicators, Croatia stagnates or falls on Transparency International means we are in 67th place of 180 countries with 47 points, 17 points below the EU average. After us is Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania, ahead of us Butan, Rwanda, Qatar not to talk about Western European and Nordic countries, and that's real where we are. Unfortunately, about this bad picture of this scale of the corruption perception index, the government of the Republic of Croatia has just brought both the Republic of Croatia and the previous one because our ministers are leaving and changing as on the ongoing tape because of the suspicion of corruption. More ministers have left these two governments in the past six years than at the time of Ivo Sanader, and Ivo Sanader has been a synonym of political corruption in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we're just on this scale so low, the fish are always dying of their heads never by their tails. Step is made, but nothing will fundamentally change we continue to believe that Croatia must strengthen independent DORH institutions, the judiciary that should be a separate pillar of government, and not because they are under the influence of both the prime minister and the president of the state. Well, you're having a massive departure today from DORH because of your overpriced pay, due to poor working conditions. Instead of getting as many quality experts as possible who will truly fight corruption, people are running from such systems, what is even worse is by the influence of politics as local, especially state. We therefore believe that these amendments and amendments to the law are a certain step, but will essentially not contribute to the repression of corruption that continues to flourish in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111945	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Sacic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is the debate of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111946	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm only going to stick to this part about the immunity of members of the government, I think it's one seductive but totally irrelevant and unacceptable proposal to me. I believe that members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which party they belong, so even those of the HDZ, should be in the same way, the same way should be regulated the issue of immunity as for the representatives of the HS, including that their immunity is being discussed in the HS and not in the government, because HS votes to them. If immunity is given to lawyers, the Commissioner for Information, then nothing in Croatia will be important if the immunity is given to members of the government, and especially because I assume that no prime minister would allow himself to be discussed in HS by his government member and immunity based on the DORH's request for corrupt crimes. So there are only two possible situations that should happen if a member of the government is asked by the DORH to remove immunity for corrupt crimes in 98% of the cases, the prime minister should call the secretary to write a solution to the resolution of that member of the government, or in 2% of the cases, the prime minister should propose a resolution of the main state attorney and there is no third option. This amendment to the law that an automatic criminal case against a member of the government against whom the DORH has initiated a criminal offence for the corruption of acts prosecuted by official duty is sent a completely confusing message, which is why it can remain in the government, so only the proceedings will be conducted. So there is no member of the government against whom the DORH is headed because the three against whom the proceedings have been brought are removed or are no longer members of the government, and which is normal or I, and I allow some of the state's attorneys of law enforcement to abuse their duty and the right and accuse an innocent man who is in the government, and that is why the government can react and that's fairer than someone stays in the government, and it's as if he's being prosecuted. As for that, so I cannot accept this proposal, the bill. I find it unacceptable for us to deal with the fact that there will be someone left in the government against whom the DORH has prosecuted corruption. Secondly, I believe that the fact that a government minister was arrested at 6 a.m. on Saturday morning is totally unacceptable to me because at the same time at 6 a.m. on Saturday morning, it was recorded, so someone tipped off from the state authorities that it would happen because I doubt that they are going to be going to the cameras in Međimurje and the Međimurje villages and waiting for a minister to be arrested. So someone misused the right he had already received by law and told reporters that a member of the government would be arrested. In such institutions, I have no confidence, and in particular I do not have a bianko trust to give them the opportunity to destroy or end a political career without the right to defend, without giving a statement, without giving a single word to himself in favour of his career, even if he was working on a HDZ member. Secondly, this code story, it's one seductive story again, but completely irrelevant. Now we know why the Fimi Media happened. Because there was no code. It wasn't enough constitution, the Penal Code, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but it needed a code not to happen. It is therefore unnecessary to bring one such document with all anti-corruption instruments introduced into the Croatian legal system during EU accession. To be a paradox to little colleague Oreshkovic, I see she's come to me for a replica, ever since the Commission for Conflict of Interest under the new HDZ law was formed, perhaps it's a sign that she needs to be abolished, perhaps it's quite a sign that it needs to be abolished, but it doesn't matter. Therefore, the Honorable Mr. Ministers appreciates the effort you were exposed to that what your party and the Prime Minister announced in the election campaign and make it impossible for me to support this bill, I think it goes in the opposite direction to which it should go, and that the members of the government should be protected to a certain reasonable limit, when that border is crossed to be no longer members of the government, and not to be removed from immunity and led, it is a criminal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111947	Replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111948	Dear colleague Bauk, from your exposure to reading that you, even personally doubt the quality of the work of the state's attorney, because you said there is a possibility that if some pre-warranted state attorney misused his position that he could have no problem in pursuing the prosecution of a certain minister or official, would you consider that anyone in the state's attorney's office would be convicted of innocently accusing someone of certain crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111949	It certainly happens if it didn't, there wouldn't be acquittals. I'm sorry, so was Polancec released in a number of proceedings? It is. Is Ronchevic released? It is. There are therefore many who, whose political career has been interrupted by the indictment, have been eventually released without even having the right to give their statement in favor of at least trying to explain themselves. It happens and now, so I don't know why the Prime Minister puts members of his government in the clear without giving them a chance to defend themselves, it's seductive, it's a little bit like that, it can be accepted at first, but it's not okay and sometimes I need to pass, past this current and say the opposite opinion, regardless of what might not be understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111950	Next is the replica of the esteemed Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111951	My colleague Bauk, we are sometimes on the same wavelength, and sometimes bohemian would strangle you, so how can you say that, if the prosecution had destroyed a political career in a country where, despite the accusations and very difficult, we only remember the Milan Bandic case, someone won the election again. We have a powerful political party ruling the state, and neither do they, not the indictments, but the judicial verdict does not bother. We have local officials like Mattia Posavac the same thing. So I think you've made a mistake here, and that's fundamentally wrong, it's not about whether the indictment should be a reason for a shift, it has to be, and then what if it comes to the end of a political career, so it doesn't have to and shouldn't be a political career that's the only thing that's left for someone in the world, so we have a bad fit in political spheres, so the problem is in the DORH that's afraid to press charges, not in a way that protects them once they're in office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111952	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111953	Thank you. Yeah, I forgot those honorable exceptions so maybe for some less severe punishment than drowning if you can remember in the meantime. So I'm talking about a few situations where it happened. The fact is also that certain politicians have unearthedly escaped from the punishment of the people for what they have committed before they have been legally ruled out to, to run for this, is the fact that there are these exceptions that you have mentioned, but I always start from someone who does his duty with the desire to contribute therefore to the state, the people, the citizens and the political option, but the legitimate one that you represent will not remain in office after this type of accusation, and for that reason I will take into account what you said and a little bit of correct my position to avoid these difficult physical explanations that you have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111954	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111955	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I thought that through this Bill on Amendments and Supplements in the Government we would go more or less unanimously and that he is acceptable to everyone, but obviously if the government goes to the right, these will all go in this direction, if it tells me something else they will do something else and it's never good, and when we say that we want to or we fight corruption they say don't fight, but we are against everything you suggest and go in this direction, and these are these today's discussions because if we want to settle something in this, through this law to be clearer, more transparent, when we're talking about not having any special advisers, about the head of the government's secretary, about whether they're being led or going to be prosecuted by an official duty against some kind of corrupt criminal act I say we're against and we're the biggest anti-corruption fighters in the Republic, there's no bigger than we are, but only here in the Assembly, the theory of Cuba, we're giving, we're practically giving, we're giving everything, we're giving, we're giving off everything, as soon as soon as we look from our fellow by ourselves. Who's their main culprit? This government, HDZ, prime minister to whom I don't know what to pay simply because they don't know how to destroy all of this and that one day, one day, a resurrection and those in those institutions that should before that, they shouldn't exist. So what they're doing is not full of two years, six years old, so if there's an institution that hasn't been attacked that's wrong, that needs to be torn down, and even those that shouldn't have bothered at all, some craft chamber, an economic chamber, it's easy to attack the government, so you want to take it down, okay, it's political business, you can't get to 52 to 57, but every day you listen to their justice, that way they handle it, the way they look at it. Now they're not good with constitutional judges, Bauk says the other day if you don't judge how we want you won't have our support anymore, and yesterday says the Supreme of Pantovich, I parked them there I didn't know where I was going with them. I think what we're talking about, what kind of relationship it is to people, to their lives, their careers, according to what they did, represented here, someone was the president of this assembly here. It's no good, they don't judge as we please. When they were ministers, the government's presidents, when the referendums fell not with 400,000 or 37,000 valid signatures but with 500 and 600, the former administration minister laughed, the constitutional court was excellent, excellent no one said then that the parking lot, no. Today, it's no good and it needs to be torn down. The people in these institutions need to have faith in anything because then comes the saviors, the messiahs who are normal for the mayor to have the indictment,... nowhere to go, he even gave a statement he confessed everything, says I didn't say anything good-bye. Mayor, we're going to run for office no matter what the charge is, no matter what I say, people like that can't run here in the assembly a minute ago, they can't run. But then we'll justify, so it's not a charge of not knowing what as well as those multiple-judged conflicts of interest some in their clubs, it's all allowed, everything, just not for us. Everything that applies to HDZ must not apply to us, and that is how we pass from day to day. Is that justice fighters? They're fighting something, I mean, nothing, nothing. They go through like this and they wonder why they go through like that, because they don't understand basic things. It's just that a man wonders what to do with them, he doesn't want to do anything in his ranks, nothing, and they're just watching. This is more of a courtroom than a councilroom here, here all day long we've been investigating ourselves, we don't need any bodies at all, this is where the charges are brought, this is where the ruling is made immediately in the speech. Yesterday we heard a lady say she's driving them all in a wagon somewhere, so I think what kind of debate is that? Where did that little honor of politicians who needed to say let's see what was going on? Well, I guess we have some institutions. Are we going to tear this whole thing apart so we can be good to ourselves and look good to somebody that day for a break, for something? As soon as there is nothing in our ranks, you are an excellent candidate, vote for the mayor, according to Dalia Oreshkovic, the biggest anti-corruption fighter. Why? Because he's from the Centre, so there's no such bad ones, no, no matter what we do, vote, invite them on, no, I mean where we're going with this kind of behavior. We don't see in our eye a needle, not a toothpick, but a big trunk, but with you we see everything, we see everything, and you're bad. Whenever we do a good thing This is a good thing, Minister. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The speakers speak at the same time....we will vote this without them. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111956	The next line is the first respected Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111957	Is someone bad or not judging the people, right? We won't judge in the assembly, surely. Col. Boric, one question, do you think this law will change the image among ordinary citizens about corruption, or was it not wiser to invest in strengthening the institutions of the state's attorney, judicial institutions, judicial authorities, and not to invite them and call them to do what the main political actors in Croatia are currently doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111958	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111959	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Paulichk. And I've listened to you and your argument, you've compared us to the Nordics, I don't see you in those skis, those skis that you run from your home in Vukovar to the city, or here to the assembly on it, and you compare us to them, and you say this is your biggest line, fill this one out, and you'll be good, no. And for us in HDZ, the lowest, the highest, and for all the rest of us, the lowest, we don't need that ski, no. Well, we're doing everything we can, at least that's how I look at it. But let me say for my country that this is a corrupt state where everything is networked with corruption and there's no normal way for you to get what you talked to a doctor, to some there may be individual cases, but let's just say that it's an individual case. So what we always make out in a way so here's the whole state is this, the whole state, every institution, government, no good DORH, no good constitutional court, no good court, no good is this high administrative court because it's passed a verdict that doesn't fit someone who's made bad decisions before, no good. They're all bigger than the others. That's not good. Not good, Mr. Pavlichek. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111960	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111961	I'm risking it. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, no one insults the state when it says we're a corrupt state, but unfortunately we are because that's how most people behave. I don't mean politics. So watch what people say, when they cross the border, they'll all behave themselves, they'll all drive like 110, 110, on our highway we'll drive 140, 150, so when they stop us, and we'll throw a whiff about it. As a society, that's how we work. I'm not saying it's with all of us, but it's become entrenched and it's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111962	This was a replica, so you get a warning. Here is the next replica of the esteemed Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111963	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague here to refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure it's a matter of perception, we can't agree you said it yourself when you go out on the street and you ask the builders, so it's a matter of perception because here when we see the reports of both the Supreme Court and the DORH we don't look so corrupt if we look at statistics. But here is my colleague, Boris, who is not bound by it, and I agree that we must work on perception, but I am still not clear, and I am looking forward to the final debate of my colleague Oreshkovic and... I am asking the question. Why is it disputed that someone here in the assembly can be charged with any action without any evidence, and that person has to disappear from the political scene, he has to answer morally, he has to resign everything, and someone with a confirmed indictment can run for anything, and then we torture like it's not our job? I don't understand, and I look forward to your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111964	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111965	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. I think this statement of hers here today is very suggestive of that part that's going now before the run for office. No one on the charge can run unless she added the part if she's from the Centre can because how else can she interpret it? You'll hear the elaborate of why it's not something someone shouldn't run for office. The charge is a charge. We can see that there are mayors like that and they don't seem to be touched. Those rules apply only to this side, to no one else, and that's what we're talking about today. And when we take one step further, you listen to an insult and try to make it all hurt to the level that nobody's worth it. That's why this attack is, so there's no institution that hasn't been attacked. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, they're no good either, the auditor is no good, the government is no good, the Assembly is no good, no one is no good except for individuals who have a court in all. When we talk to them the way they talk to us, they get angry right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111966	The next replica, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111967	Thank you, dear Vice President. A respected colleague, therefore, and this law, we all agree is actually part of this anti-corruption package of laws that have actually been passed in line with the strategy that we adopted at the end of last year, on preventing corruption so for the period of '21-2030, I would just remind myself of what we actually listened to during that debate precisely from these colleagues. So that it's a dead letter in paper that it won't be anything, a fig leaf, the government doesn't do anything. And now we see that this is about him, we have the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the new CAP is now going into second reading, the Criminal Law, this law. So the government is working, the ministry is working. I would say to others, what you yourself said in your debate, so very hypocritical, demagogy, floscule that's all we hear from the opposition and what we did last week or 2 weeks ago when we discussed their proposals for the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament which was actually great because we saw what it really was don't give God an alternative and what, what the opposition offers and what are actually double criteria that we have here all the time to listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111968	I agree with my colleague in everything...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111969	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111970	... Habib, I think the minister has listed two other laws that go in that direction, and these are some of our obligations, we will discuss them here and I believe bring them here. And we want one normal debate that's really real, and not that it's level, all of them are guilty, without any kind of procedure behind you to support it and bring it to an end because if you say about someone who's been insinuating something to anyone here, etc., you're lying, you're doing it on purpose to be important to yourself or someone around you, it's not right that we here have to listen to it in the sense that we're all some bad people we've chosen here, that we're worse than the people we've ever been. We're it, it's just yourself as a message is a disaster. And that all day long there are negative debates where we're so bad company that we don't even deserve to live in this country the way it is, I think. And if everything had to be torn down to the ground, we heard one MP, when we came to build a country from the beginning, it doesn't matter what 30 years we've been through. There's absolutely no such thing for them. [[Intruder: Time.]] Only when they arrive will there be a state. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111971	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111972	You asked me so I could answer you right away. I'm not impressed by you or your circus. The first person from the center party group to take something from any public budget, to hide something, to please someone, here from this pay phone I solemnly promise you I will be the first to call him to step down when the charges will be objectively founded. And if we had that situation like we do in the Banozic case, Berožiša and these other ministers of yours from a flow water heater that is constantly reconstructed believe me that the consequences within the party would be wherever and where harder. I didn't get into politics like that. But it's much more important for me to explain something now, even as my colleague Bauku's apology. What was I really trying to explain? So first of all, we don't need bodies, we don't need institutions that can't do the job they exist for. We don't need those bodies that or don't have their powers well arranged, we don't need institutions where leaders go after political instructions like we have with the Constitutional Court whose president goes into taverns with Branko Bačić and other HDZs to taste good fish there. We don't need institutions that have the wrong leadership. We don't need a BOOK or a DORH who's afraid to press charges. We must also take into account the statistics written in the reports submitted to the Croatian Parliament, so very, very high percentage of the charges which are confirmed, which means that our BOOK and our DORH are actually too careful when the indictments are lifted. And whether the indictment was established or not, that is something that is determined in the further stages of this procedure. Furthermore, the complete law may be one of the good examples that shows how much in this country is a mere form without any meaningful content. In part, this can also be seen from those proposals that were related to this law in the public consultation process by Gong. And this isn't the only case. So we have a public consultation, and then we look transparent and inclusive in front of Europe's bodies, but all important remarks, proposals, comments are being rejected as if they weren't even written. Now that's what's actually demoting. Among the good suggestions of Gong is that special advisers are placed in a circle of those who are subject to a little more stringent controls. I strongly support that. However, I would point out that the moment the powers of the commission and the officials themselves were taken away, as well as the government and the Prime Minister and his minister themselves, it is illustrative to expect that the advisers would be well combed and all if they were included in the scope of those which one body, such as the commission, controls. Until the second reading, I do not believe that there will be any major changes to the proposal of this law, but here I will nevertheless point out that all these provisions that are supposed to strengthen transparency, so they say that something will be published on the websites, and then the government will prescribe a form for the declaration of potential conflict of interest, and then this procedure in which the advisers inform the Prime Minister that there may be a potential conflict of interest and are not worth anything at all unless there are no mechanisms of control and sanctions in place, for the time being, there are no signs in this law, and that if there are not even in the final proposal of the law then that Bačić, Boric and everyone else present, there is nothing left for us but when one day HDZ is moving from the authorities to the end, and then we will not have this situation that actually arises in the dissatisfaction of citizens because they see that the rule of law does not work and then comes to the rhetoric of this institution, we knock out. I think it's just a misspelled sentence, we need institutions, no institutions have no state, but we don't need institutions that implement HDZ guidelines, we need institutions that do what the law says, and there's less and less if there's any left.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111973	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111974	Thank you, Vice President. Art. 238, I'll risk a warning, but it's possible that there's been a false allegation here, so I don't know, first sentence colleagues, if I understand correctly, so a member of the Centre can't be charged with corruption, he has to resign immediately, but if he's accused of violence against a woman, he doesn't have to, if I'm good at interpreting your first sentence. ... Okay, okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111975	You're getting a warning, this was an injury, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111976	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the debate ended, I'd just like to say a little bit more about this proposal to amend and supplement the Government Act. First of all, I would like to emphasise once again what the objective of these amendments is to strengthen preventive anti-corruption mechanisms, which is in line with the recommendations of GRECO. What we had the opportunity to hear here in the debate from the MPs that this is a step forward, but it will not solve the issue of corruption in society, so I agree that this alone will not solve the problem, the overall problem of corruption in society, but this shows a clear direction of government, its decision to fight seriously corruption in society, and therefore goes from itself as the highest body of the executive government in the country, where it requires the highest standard of those in the executive government to participate in this way by abolishing immunity for the corrupt parts that are being prosecuted by official duty, to send a message that they will ask the people who participate in the government to be those who have integrity and to which the strictest criteria apply. What is important is that this proposal also aligns some of the provisions of the current law, which concern the Secretary-General of Government in order to avoid certain discrepancies that exist now in the provisions and to make more clear what are the powers of the Secretary-General of Government. Furthermore, more clearly, the status and powers of advisers are prescribed, the way they are appointed as special advisers and government advice, which we also consider to be good. It is not appreciated that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is applied to advisers as to officials, and I believe that this is justified because if we withdraw a particular parallel, we have advisers with both the mayor and the mayor as a possibility they are not officials, they are advisers who only advise the executive authority who will again make their own decision and we cannot withdraw equal responsibility for advisers and executive authorities. However, it is prescribed here that advisers will sign a statement which will also contain information on what their interests may be under conflict of interest or no such interests or will also be visible whether they are biased or impartial. Therefore, I think this law contributes to transparency above all, but it also raises to a high level what the principle is, which is that in the government's executive government will not suffer corruption, that zero rates will be sought in the fight against corruption. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support such changes and amendments to the law, and I believe that my colleague Bauk is wrong when he says that this is how the prime minister leaves the ministers in the clear, leaving them without the possibility of defence in case they are charged. I believe that the defence is not proven before the prime minister, that every minister defends himself against the competent authorities that conduct the procedure, and the government as an executive body is expected to be responsible for the citizens who have elected it, and with such principles as are introduced to those who act in government, it is in fact intended to show these same citizens that corruption will not be suffered even to the minimum in government terms. As for what counterpart Dalia said that one's colleague Oreshkovic, I apologize, that one's political career is not important, that it is important to determine possible potential, potential corruption, I would said that first of all, it is important to always establish the correct facts [[Intruder: Time.]] And that you should expect responsibility from anyone who [[Intruder: Time.]] You're wrong. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111977	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's representative, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've been around for a long time now, this one, at the beginning of my career while she was still academic, and not political, I've been working on one research just about corruption. I also have a scientific paper with my name published on it and to shorten the story since I will not bother you with methods and similar things, we have found that in fact corruption in Croatia is related to, that it is not just some level of some sort of aberrant phenomenon, it is a cultural phenomenon, it is in some way part, um, it will sound terrible, but some of our historical-cultural heritage that goes back to some much more ancient time of Turkish occupation, etc., some culture of replacement and compensation for a service done, so it is not just what it is, it cannot be explained just in the way that corruption is interpreted today from some modern and strictly legal perspective, it has some deeper roots in Croatia. What does that really mean for us? This means that corruption, if the problem we want to solve is, and it seems to me that we want to solve it, regardless of what I thought and what we as a representative club think about some of the measures that are proposed, that they actually, that this solution must require a much more systematic approach. What's being proposed today is the consequence of something the Prime Minister said, I'm going to caricate a little bit now, but about like this. Now you're going to see how we're going to remove the immunity so you won't have to discuss it at all, sort of. I mean, I can kind of understand, and I'm going to allow myself this certain level of this, empirically-founded insolence, to put it that way. I can understand that the Prime Minister is tired of having every little case that he has to discuss and remove immunity from his members and members of the government because he does. So I'm not saying that all HDZ's are corrupt, but if we look at the cases of the defendants, we'll see that you're on average represented, so that's what the empirium shows you, and I don't mean it in any offensive way, that's a fact. I mean, not to mention that unfortunate verdict of yours, even though we like to mention it and I'm afraid we have to mention it. So the point is this. If you really want to solve as someone who is in power the problem of corruption, then that means you can't have such legal proposals alone. You must have systematic access to it. One of the things I can't possibly understand when it comes to HDZ, and I mean now, really, it won't even be insolent or empiricalally founded or otherwise, it's really hard for me to understand why you don't deal with corruption in your own ranks. I mean, at the end of the day it, I mean, except for the fact that it affects Croatian society as a whole, and since your party has been very much in power in history and you are now in power, you will demand trust for a year for a third term, our Prime Minister, etc., I think you should start from your ranks, and you really have something to clean up. So, before we come to discuss whether members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have access to the immunity for procedures initiated by the DORH, whether you should first initiate some internal procedures and screenings, what is called the vetting process in the United States, means that you see if anyone who will be a candidate or candidate for public duty, has any kind of dubiosis about himself, whether he can really be a candidate or a candidate for acting as a candidate. And then what happens? Minister Paladin comes to the Parliament and then the opposition, of course, because that vetting obviously didn't happen with you to extract 500 documents that hardly incriminate him. This is just the last example, so it's just the last example. I mean, isn't that ultimately a burden for you and your party and for those in your party who justifiably have a problem with that? That you have to defend, after all, people who definitely have burdens? I don't know, it just seems to me like it's a good place to start cleaning up in your backyard, and then with a full excuse to say, here, we're through with it, and now we really have a real mandate. to ask and from you opposition trust that [[Intruder: Time.]] Support our anti-corruption measures. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111979	Following is the final debate on behalf of Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111980	Here, colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this debate, which is periodically repeated with different reasons in our Parliament and in our society, unfortunately I have the feeling that there are no major and significant shifts, nor is there any normative optimism that we show that we are going to change laws, regulations, we are going to pass codes, etc., they prove to be insufficient, there is obviously something else missing. There's something else missing. I'd say there's no real, real political will, firstly, to recognize the depth of the problem you're talking about. And here today we have had the opportunity to hear the difference between the debate and the extent to which it is a real phenomenon, and to the extent that it is perception, corruption cannot be measured. It can't be measured, it's a secret phenomenon, in itself. But we can measure the perception of corruption because it happens at different levels and people every day, our citizens meet with this phenomenon, at one place or another. What seems capital to me is that we also have a Anti-Corruption Strategy which seems to me to be capitalically important that all the political options in this country continue to be taught what a colleague or primarily HDZ has said, which is really under the burden and the accusations and convictions of corruption for so many cases that connect with this party to legitimately put a truly sincere principle if it is possible for those who are going to make a real fight against this widespread evil for which here and for a moment found it to be an integral part of our mentality or our cultural heritage. We simply shouldn't be reconciled with that fact, it seems to me that it's very important and let's not ask, I hope that honestly Ministers that this is not an advocacy on the formal demands of some international institution like GRECO, that we don't go to any alibis and mime shows that we're hiding and that we want to make ourselves look like we want to do something, but we don't really want to do it. I don't want to believe that we in this country can't, that we can't find enough honest honest people who realize that acting in public duty is something that's binding, which isn't sweet and fat, I don't want to believe it. So, I remembered this little cartoon today, when we were the government I was in, we made a decision that ministers shouldn't drive on Frankopan Street when they're going to Upper Town, but they have to go to Gundulic's. Only once, once upon a time there was some traffic in Gundulić's I went to the assembly or to the government we drove, otherwise it was allowed for tenants and taxi pass from Frankopanska to the Upper City. Someone took a picture of me and a colleague of Piculu who was foreign minister, we were on a pillar of shame, on a pillar of shame over the fact, we made that decision. My prime minister, my friend, Prime Minister Racan, said that if we were late, we'd start early, he didn't stop there. I see no reason for us to forgive each other for anything that can compromise the people who lead this country. And I come again to the same theme of institutions must be, institutions must be protected, even when individuals within these institutions do not act and behave in an honorable manner. It's the only way to strengthen that social trust, strengthen us as a community as a society, and then we won't need 50,000 euros per capital of income. People will want to live in the country and with less money, but they will know that they live in a country where there are rules that are respected. A fundamental rule, you remember talking, and it was a wonderful time when we were preparing for the EU, a wonderful time when we were just talking about the rule of law and obligations and duties that are equal to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111981	With this, we've exhausted the debate, and I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The following point is: - Final proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019. (Law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification), second reading, P.Z.E. No. 236 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 236 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Bernard Gršić, State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111984	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law implementing Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019, i.e. the Law implementing cybersecurity certification. When we talk about the purpose of this EU law, it has taken a number of measures to regulate relations in cyberspace by increasing resilience and strengthening its cybersecurity preparedness. Since the first EU cybersecurity strategy adopted in 2013 setting out strategic objectives and concrete measures to achieve resilience, reduce cybercrime, develop cyber defence policy and capacity for cyber defence, develop industrial and technological resources and establish a harmonised international cyberspace policy for the EU until the latest proposal of 2020. in which three areas of resilience, technological sovereignty and leadership are further highlighted, the building of operational capacity in order to prevent and deter and retaliate, and the development of a global and open cyberspace, the need to regulate the digital transformation of society is constantly stressed, in a way that remains at the heart of the event or subject and in cyberspace, with the importance of security parameters for building trust in these processes. In order to increase confidence and security in the EU's single digital market and in view of the rapid spread of connected devices, it was necessary to establish a framework for the safety certification of products, services and the information and communication technology process, or all cyberspace facilities. Cyber security certification becomes particularly important in view of the increasing use of cybernetic technologies for purposes that require high levels of reliability and security, and in an increasing number of sectors, a significant increase in dependence on products of information communication technologies, services and processes, in particular in transport, in life and health systems, in industry, in systems for industrial automation, and in the achievement of human interests and rights. Directive on the safety of network and information systems, so-called EU NIS Directive transposed by the Cybersecurity Act and by key services operators and digital service providers 2018. It regulated the classification of services or cyberspace facilities of their importance and established a system of resilience specific to the most important sectors. Next, the following regulation on the EU NIS Directive and its submission to the EU Cyber Security Agency Regulation ENISA and on cybersecurity certification in the field of communication and information technology 2019/881 of 17 April 2019. The second stage of editing cybernetic space from the aspect of the object of the space has been completed. The ENISA Regulation has given it a more active and significant role to play in achieving the Union’s cyberresistance and has become the headquarters body in the network of Member States’ agencies dealing with cybersecurity in a similar way. The main regulator at EU level is the European Commission, which, with the operational assistance of ENISA and the European Cyber Security Certificate Advisory Group, ensures the implementation of the provisions of both of these laws and in accordance with the strategies and plans. The basic issues that need to be regulated by this law, or one of the objectives that is meant to be achieved through a cybersecurity certification system, are to strengthen the EU's single digital market in order to make it a more significant factor on the global stage and become more resistant to the destructive actions of more competitive global economies. This also facilitates the achievement of one of the Union's strategic objectives, digital sovereignty, or the possibility of free and independent decision-making on all matters relating to cyberspace. Consequently, those EU Member States have assumed the obligation to harmonise their rules and actions in this area, and to build or adapt national cybersecurity certification systems to the common. All national components are expected to become components at national level of a well-linked and resilient European cyber security certification system in due time. In order to do so, it was necessary to lay down the principles and rules for the construction of such systems, which is exactly what the EU regulation sought and did, and Member States are expected to implement, the roles of various bodies, their legal status and means of association are defined in order to achieve the uniformity of components at Union level and ultimately avoid harmful fragmentation of practices and procedures. Cyber security certification confirms that products of information communication technology, services and processes are evaluated in accordance with European cybersecurity certification schemes, and that they meet certain safety requirements for the protection of availability, originality and integrity and confidentiality of stored, transmitted or processed data, functions or services offered by such products, services and processes or which can be accessed during their life cycle. On the basis of certain European cybersecurity certification schemes, cybersecurity certification is carried out which is the process of issuing European cybersecurity certificates or a declaration of conformity for manufacturers or service providers and processes in order to achieve a high common level of cybersecurity across the EU for certain products, services and processes. The implementation of this law is attended by various EU and national authorities, some of which are newly formed and others are given new tasks. From the national authorities, the Croatian accreditation agency has received an additional area of cybersecurity in which it issue accreditations to conformity assessment bodies, which, in turn, issue certificates to manufacturers and providers for their products, services and processes while the Information System Security Office has received regulatory and supervisory tasks to ensure that all interested parties have legal protection harmonised throughout the EU. Certificate issuers and conformity assessment bodies shall be legal persons established in one of the EU Member States in which they are registered for the activity and quality control tests and from the Accreditation Agency, those States shall be accredited for work, all in accordance with the provisions of the European Regulation. The first step at the national Croatian level is to set up a framework or structure that can be imported into the common EU, which can implement programmes in the intended manner primarily with the aim of building a domestic market in accordance with and implementing it in accordance with domestic circumstances and legal practice. General quality control operations, i.e. to check the achievement of a standard resulting in a testimony, atest or certificate, account for about 10% of the digital market with a growth trend of the relatively highlighted concern for the safety and complexity of new technologies. In objective terms, for the Croatian digital economy this diversification is welcome, and growth is expected in this niche with minimal interventions and incentives as it will allow domestic digital entrepreneurs to reach the business and professional levels equal to the best in the Union in a very short time. Discussing the prevailing estimates that say that in the digital economy, new EU members, or those in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, are 3 to 4 years behind. And that the cleavage doesn't fall. The establishment of a cybersecurity certification system promises to erase such a difference at least in that niche. Finally, this draft bill sets out the national cyber security certification bodies, i.e. the Information System Security Institute, the accreditation body for conformity assessment by the national accreditation agency and the Commission's admission. The interrelationships of the factors in the procedures transposed by the Consumer Protection Regulation that are uniform in the EU's single digital market, the right to appeal and the right to an effective legal remedy are regulated, the sanctions regime of the adjusted legislation of each Member State is established. It is introduced in this final draft of the law, unlike the first reading, introduces infringement provisions in kunas and euros and accepts proposals or objections from the Committee on Legislatives and Representatives of Pavic. This draft bill fulfils all the obligations of the Republic of Croatia so that there will be no obstacles to the full implementation of the EU regulation by its degree of effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111985	Here, we have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111986	Thank you very much, Vice President. The important reason for this legislative proposal is to achieve the objectives of the cyber security certification system, but also to strengthen the EU's single digital market. The EU has taken a number of measures to regulate relations in cyberspace and increase security. How many cybersecurity systems have deteriorated in Europe, but in the world since Russia began its invasion into Ukraine, are the EU citizens safe and what you see as the biggest obstacle to digitisation today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111987	Thank you very much. So, regarding the question of how much the systems deteriorated after Russia's aggression into Ukraine, I would say that much, much more attention has just been paid to cybersecurity and that many systems and consolidated that are especially in Croatia's Cybersecurity Centre which was founded at SOA much, much more and more actively involved and organised for all state systems. Currently, on cybersecurity, Croatia is on the global cyber security index of the 2020 global cyber security, the data suggests that we are 33 of the 182 member states. And when we ask if the EU's citizens are safe, they're safe because the team is following that System. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111988	The next replica honours Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111989	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has developed the National Development Strategy by 2030 as a roof document and a comprehensive act of strategic planning aimed at the development of society and economy in the long term in all important issues for Croatia. What I'm interested in is whether cybersecurity will be included in the digital Croatia strategy whose process began in the middle of this month? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111990	Thank you very much. So the digital Croatia strategy began or began to be developed 10 days ago. Of course there is no digital society, there is no digitisation if citizens in this environment in this virtual environment and the digital environment are not sure because it is, of course, one of the basics of citizens' confidence in the system and of course, that cybersecurity will be occupied or that it will be, even though it is a national cybersecurity strategy, but also in the digital Croatia strategy, cybersecurity will be included.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111991	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111992	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, in a time of rapid development of new technologies and the digitisation of society, the area and cybersecurity have become increasingly important and marked strong global growth. The digitalisation process itself has been further accelerated due to the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, many work from home, shopping and many other activities have moved on-line. All this, of course, carries great risks of cyber attacks. In this regard, my question is, where is Croatia today in terms of cybersecurity and digitisation and what is planned to do in the field of digitisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111993	Thank you very much. So, I mentioned on the global cyber security index Croatia is located 33 places out of 182 member states, on the EU DESI index Croatia has been growing continuously for the past 6 years, so with 24 seats today it is 19 places. And especially in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for Digitalisation alone, 20.4% of the entire National Recovery and Resistance Plan is foreseen for the digitisation of public administration and society, nearly 3 billion kunas through 21 investment by state bodies, and this is certainly an ambitious plan that the European Commission has confirmed that Croatia can achieve its objectives at the centre and scale of the EU average by 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111994	Next replica, the esteemed Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111995	My dear secretary, I'd like to ask you for one piece of information. When we had a discussion on 2.3 in the first reading, then European cybersecurity certification schemes were not yet completed, so we couldn't even make our own schemes, national cybersecurity certification schemes, were these schemes in the meantime finished, did they come to Croatia and do something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111996	Unfortunately, schemes have not yet been adopted at European level. It is expected to be by September this year. So we don't even have our own national schemes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111997	The next replica honours Barbara Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111998	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, increased attention means increased funds for this same attention so that cybersecurity is indeed at a good and satisfactory level. Whether the funds provided for amounting to a million 580 in 2022 and 2023 2 million 740 to be enough for that attention, increased attention as you yourself stressed due to all these circumstances and wars and new incursions that we have been witnessing lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u111999	These funds that you have listed are not, in fact, the means for complete cybersecurity in the state, they are distributed on many items of the state budget and as such would certainly not be enough for complete security. But these are foreseen for this proposal for a cybersecurity certification law where the Security and Information System Institute will provide through these means these activities that must be provided by law. So if we're looking at the entire cybersecurity that's certainly a very demanding process, and I've already mentioned it, so it's gathering through the Cybersecurity Centre set up by SOA, and that includes all the stakeholders currently working on cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112000	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112001	Thank you. My dear secretary, the fact that we're actually one three years behind this law or this one, the regulation was passed three years ago somewhere. What a problem we are, I don't know which country we are, as other EU countries stand by the application of this regulation since we can freely say that in the digital world for three years it's as if we're late I don't know now I'm going to say three centuries. So, who we are in Europe in order, and how, will it actually create problems for us and for us to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112002	Thank you. So here in the previous answer I said that means certification schemes have not yet been adopted at European level, and they are necessary for this law to be implemented. It is true that it is late, but there are no schemes under which it should be implemented we are still not late for, or we have no consequences for implementation. As far as I am aware, only a few EU countries have brought this process into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112003	The last replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. By security certification, as my colleague Balic has actually properly warned in her replica in the past few years, especially during the time of the pandemic, there is in particular expression and gain importance. I'm curious to know if you have any idea how many threats there have actually been and in which categories and in which sectors the most, or how much I'd say I should try to help you with the weather. One of the applications of security certification is in online trade, so this is among other things one of the intensities of this law, it targets the single market. On the other hand, in some services that the state can provide on the line. Would you, for example, have you learned about how much one of these two sectors has been affected or exposed to, for example, security threats over the past two years, and how many of these are actually going to solve problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112005	Well, in fact, if we look at these problems in this way, it will actually lead to products, services and processes being standardised throughout the EU, and when we have standardised processes across the EU, then the entire EU can be synergy in these threats as is happening. So at the time of this aggression, the entire EU acted synergyally and the information was shared. They can only mention that it means all information on the attacks that take place on state information infrastructure and similar SOAs published in their regular annual report and there we can get all the information that has been made public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112006	Well, thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the replicas. You can sit down. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first reported club Social Democrats, the respected representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112007	Thank you very much. Here we are gathered here in large numbers. We're all interested in our security detail, so we'll discuss it a little bit. First, let me sincerely commend the secretary for the answers because it is evident here that some of our colleagues interfere with the security and protection of information systems, and then there are little problems in communication. Namely, this law that is before us will ensure that we are actually certified in security. This means that we will achieve the same preconditions so that later we can protect systems at the level of Europe, i.e. that we will integrate certain standard programmes or parts of the system into systems that are composed in multiple parts, or from multiple applications, from multiple programmes in a certain way as the EU predicts that we will be in line with them and that we will be able to go along with them in the joint defence in the event of any attacks. What I find even so controversial in this law is that sentence in the explanation that it says that we are, that Croatia is actually a little behind in the digital economy. I think the secretary will agree with me here, that we are not far behind the EU, that we are doing well, that we have a large number of information systems in use, even more, a lot more, a lot more of these systems we had in use, what I know data six, seven years ago than Austria or, say, this, Spain in part of the information process concerning state administration. Therefore, we are not so far behind, so it would be good to make it clear to all the Croatian public and to our colleagues because the more we lag behind for 3 to 4 years, the more that is not true, and on the other hand, with the introduction of this certification, the harder it is to reduce. The safer we will be and the different conditions for protecting our information systems will not bring us greater information and greater and better, greater and better support in part of the information processes and systems. I already spoke here last time about this law quite detail. I'm glad that some of my remarks have been accepted and I think we all need to be aware that this law is good and that we should actually adopt it unanimously. Now I'm lobbying here on behalf of the secretary, but this is really a prerequisite for us to be safer in the future. We're not just talking about the security of state infrastructure here, we're talking about the security of our citizens, because we know that all those who once connected to the Internet have left their data there, and that I'm not talking about every day applying to some kind of system, that we're leaving our data, that our data is in various registers, that we have information about our bank accounts, that we have information about us, about our children in state registers, therefore, it's in our interest that all these systems are equally protected and that this is pre-defined by a single approach, that is to go to one unique approach in part of that certification for the security of cyberspace, or cyber systems. I believe that all those who have dealt with the law in more detail have seen that we already have two bodies in Croatia that are working. .../incomprehensible/... Those two bodies were given additional assignments. We know that one of these bodies has been working for years, had a lot of work in the past, in history, and I think there's even more to do now, since with the beginning of the war in Ukraine, these attacks on IT infrastructure, whether the attacks on state portals, or on state infrastructure or on business infrastructure, have grown very, very much, and I think all of our services have a lot of work to do. There would draw attention to the fact that there are other services that actually support these services, let us not forget about our national CERT which is part of the CERT that provides us with information with all of us who are interested in getting some unwanted messages on our e-mails, on Whatsapova, Vibera and other communication systems, so that we can get information there whether there is an attack, services are working regularly, regularly reporting, warning, and those interested will certainly find the right and good information. Do we succeed in doing all those jobs that we need to do in accordance with what the Union expects us to do, we do not know, primarily because neither the Union knows what it expects, given that it has not prescribed schemes or procedures for that certification, and when we look at it realistically and objectively, neither they know what they are asking of us nor what they are asking of the other countries, nor do we know what they are going to ask of us. We will see what happens later when we get these schemes, which we will have to do, which we will have to verify, but what we know by the Regulation, if we have read the Regulation, we see that we have to take care now that if we create some systems that will contain other subsystems, that these subsystems have to be certified the same way as these systems, means we have to make sure that they meet all the conditions that need to be met so that later certification of the final product goes without a problem. This also applies to information systems in terms of applications and in terms of technical part of information systems. So if we produce some servers, computers, if we produce some kind of communication equipment, it must be 100% certain that all of those elements that are embedded in these systems are secure, that they are certified and that the process that Europe predicted has passed. Now I'm not sure, Mr. Secretary, whether it will go retroactively or be implemented since the start of the Law, or since the law is in effect, whether that certification for new products of this, will be carried out or implemented and retroactively, I don't know, it doesn't appear in the Law, and I haven't found in the regulation whether or not the starting products that are already on the market, that they will be certified in particular, I'm not sure, but we'll see what is asked of us. However, this, mainly, is the fact that all those services, i.e. all those companies dealing with IT, which deal with the production of systems in terms of hardware equipment and which deal with the construction of information systems in terms of software, that they will need to take certain actions and certain steps, certain preparatory actions, so that later these systems do not fall under certification and that they can fit into the single system of the European security network. If we can't fit into that safety net, then we didn't do anything because we know that the system is as sure as the weakest part is, and it wouldn't be good for us or any system in Croatia to be weak or perhaps the weakest part of the certification. The fact is that this certification will be carried out by our bodies, however, there is also an obligation to run a certification register. It's probably going to fit into that register inside, I guess, that all those schemes that were implemented in certification because without that, it doesn't make sense, so we don't have complete data, so we believe that this register will be quite complex and demanding. I don't know if it's made, if it already exists, or if you're going to make it, or if we're going to get it from the EU, I'm not sure. I know there's one at EU level. If we are going to make our own, we will see it later, but it would be good to have it at our disposal, especially for those who need to be certified and for those who should later use some products that will eventually be certified or who have not passed the certification. As for the Social Democrats Club and myself personally, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112008	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected MPs Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112009	Cybernetic threats report a continuous increase at global level, and different types of attacks in the cyberspace of the Republic of Croatia are becoming more sophisticated and more complex. Different malpractice programs of computer fraud, abuse of personal and financial data and abuse of social networks are just some of them. For this very reason, the world is very important about possible cyber threats and how to protect them from them. The EU has taken a number of measures to regulate relations in cyberspace by increasing its resilience and strengthening its cybernetic and security preparedness. From the first EU Cybersecurity Strategy adopted in 2013 which sets out the strategic objectives and concrete measures to achieve resilience, reduce cybercrime, develop cyber defence policy and capacity for cyber defence, develop industrial and technological resources and establish a harmonised international cybercrime policy for the EU until the latest 2020 proposal, which further highlights three areas, resilience, technological sovereignty and leadership, 2 building of operational capacities for the prevention, deterrence and return, 3 developing a global and open cyberspace. It is constantly stressing the need to regulate the digital transformation of society in such a way that man always remains at the heart of the event, i.e. the subject is also in cyberspace. In order to increase trust and security in the Union's single digital market and in view of the rapid spread of connected devices, it was necessary to establish a framework for the safety certification of products, services and the information and communication technology process, i.e. all cyberspace facilities. Cyber security certification is becoming particularly important in view of the increasing use of cybernetic technologies for purposes that require high levels of reliability and security, and in an increasing number of sectors there are increased dependence in... products, services and processes especially in transport, which is automated management, in life support and eHealth systems, in industrial control systems for industrial automation and in the achievement of human interests and rights of e-Grads. The Security Network and Information Systems Directive has been transposed into the Croatian legal system by the Cyber Security Act of Key Services Operators and Digital Service Providers, and regulates the classification of services or cyberspace facilities of their importance, key and digital services, and establishes a system of resistance to protection, reporting, intervention specific to the most important sectors. What do we get from this bill? We get that by strengthening the EU's single digital market, it will become a more significant factor on the global stage and become more resistant to... the action of competitive global economies, thus facilitating the achievement of one of the Union's strategic objectives of digital sovereignty, or the possibility of free and independent decision-making on all matters in connection with cyberspace. Following that Member State, the EU has taken over the obligation to harmonise its rules and actions in this area and to build and adapt national cybersecurity certification systems jointly. All national components are expected to become components at national level of a well-linked and resilient European cyber security certification system in due time. In order to do so, it was necessary to lay down the principles and rules of building such a system as the EU regulation sought and made, and Member States are expected to implement it. The roles of various bodies, their legal status and means of association are defined in order to achieve the uniformity of the components at Union level and ultimately avoid harmful fragmentation of practices and procedures. The first step at the national Croatian level is to establish a framework or structure that can be imported into the common Union and which can implement programmes in the intended manner primarily with the aim of building a domestic market in accordance with the other in the Digital Single Market and implement its regulation in accordance with Union principles, adapted to domestic circumstances and legal practice. For the Croatian digital economy, this diversification is welcome and growth is expected in this niche with minimal interventions and incentives as it will allow domestic digital entrepreneurs to reach the business and professional levels equal to the best in the Union in a very short time. Discussing the predominant evaluations that say that in the digital economy, new EU members, or those from Central and Eastern Europe, have been lagging behind for 3 to 4 years and that the gap does not decrease, the establishment of a cybersecurity certification system promises to erase these and such differences at least in this niche. Furthermore, this legislative proposal ensures the implementation of the Regulation, ensuring the necessary assumptions for the permanent improvement of the state of European cybersecurity certification in the wider range of the social and economic sectors covered by the digital transformation of the development of the Internet of things, but at the same time fostering the development of the Republic of Croatia in the field of the digital economy, through a harmonised approach between a set of public and reception sector stakeholders, taking into account that the European certificates issued in the Republic of Croatia are valid throughout the area of the Digital Single Market of the Union. This opens up opportunities for more effective joint approach and joint action of the state, academic and economic sector, primarily in the development of new Croatian products, processes and services and norms, in line with uniform requirements for the entire EU area. Since the Regulation sets out the main framework for a single cybersecurity certification system in the EU, i.e. the way systems are set up and implemented, the proposal for a law sets out the competent authorities at national level, legal protection and the sanctions regime for each Member State. In addition to the Regulation, this Law clearly states all entities in the Republic of Croatia what to do and how to act when they wish or must apply the certification procedure for their... products, services and processes, if they intend to place them on the EU single market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112010	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112011	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have before us the Law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification, i.e. the Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019. As pointed out above, the reason for this Law is also the achievement of the objectives of the cybersecurity certification system, i.e. the strengthening of the EU's single digital market, and all in order to make it a more significant factor on the global stage and more resistant to the disciplinary actions of competitive global economies. In this way, emphasis should be placed on, facilitate and achieve one of the EU's strategic objectives, which is digital sovereignty, i.e. the possibility of free and independent decision-making on all matters related to cyberspace. Digital transformation changes everyday life and habits, as well as ways of business and communication, and as such creates new challenges. It is extremely challenging under normal everyday circumstances, to deal with threats in cybernetic space, as well as to respond to them in due time, and more importantly, to respond accordingly. Accordingly, EU Member States have assumed the obligation to harmonise their rules and actions in this area and to build or adapt national cybersecurity certification systems jointly. All national components are expected to become components at national level, well imported and resistant European cybersecurity certification system in due time. Furthermore, in order to increase confidence from security in the Digital Single Market, it was not necessary to establish a framework for the safety certification of products, services and the information-communication technology process, i.e. all cyberspace facilities, in view of the rapid spread of connected devices or Internet things. In this respect, cybersecurity certification, which is highlighted in the draft proposed law, is particularly important given that greater use of cyber-technology for purposes that require a high degree of reliability and security. Key sectors such as transport, energy, health and finance are increasingly dependent on digital technologies to carry out their basic activities. Although digitisation provides great opportunities and solutions for numerous challenges, what we could see in the final and during the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, it also exposes the economy and society to cyber threats. Therefore, certification plays a key role in ensuring high cyber-security standards, product and service standards and information and communication technology processes. The fact that different EU countries are currently using different security certification programmes, leading to market fragmentation and regulatory barriers. Introducing a single certified framework at EU level, the aim is, above all, to build trust, to increase the growth of the cybersecurity market and facilitate trade across the EU. But what is provided by this proposed law? So, above all, implementation of the regulation itself is ensured, as well as ensuring the necessary assumptions for the permanent improvement of the state of European cybersecurity certification, along with the growing scope of the social and economic sectors covered by the digital transformation and development of the Internet of things, but at the same time, what is much more important, is fostered and the development of the Republic of Croatia in the digital economy. This opens up opportunities for a more efficient joint approach and joint action, as already said, of the state, academic and economic sector, primarily in the development of new Croatian products, processes and services of information and communication technologies, in line with the single requirements for the entire EU area. Furthermore, this Law lays down competent authorities at national level, legal protection and sanctions, which are specific to each EU Member State. The national authority for cybersecurity certification in the Republic of Croatia is the Information System Security Institute, while the national accreditation body is the Croatian accreditation agency. What is still to be pointed out is that the bill further harmonized the infringement provisions with the need for fines to be shown to the euro for the expected introduction of the euro as the official currency of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the cybersecurity certification confirms that the products, services and processes of information communication technology have been evaluated in accordance with European... cyber security certifications and to meet established safety requirements for the purposes of protection, availability, originality, integrity and confidentiality of stored, sent or processed data, functions or services offered by such products, services and processes or which may be accessible with them during their life cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112012	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, this is one of those laws, i.e. the implementation of European legislation, which, as we can see, is neither a passion nor an interest in the debate, which is somewhat and understandable because the subject of this law is what the EU loves to do most and what it does in principle is very good. So we're agreeing that we're all going to do things that concern us together and, above all, with the interest of the single market that we've had many times here today in this debate, we've had the opportunity to hear how it went. The phrase was about to strengthen the single digital market in order to achieve digital sovereignty and resilience to other competitive economies. Did I hit something? So in a few discussions we heard the same phrase, which is okay, I think it's understandable. It's clear that this is one, one of those things where I would say, it's okay, we'll agree on what our bodies are to deal with this subject by certification. We will agree on how we will certification and we will all do it together, so that is what the EU regulates very nicely, very well and loves to do it. And he's probably doing the best thing in the world. It's kind of, on the one hand it's a form, but on the other hand it should in theory drastically ease the content today. I can't agree with my colleague Pavic who said it wasn't true that we were lagging behind for so long. I honestly think that Croatia is far behind in ensuring digital sovereignty in ensuring cybersecurity. I think he's been lagging behind more than three or four years between us saying, I mean between us, it's public, but good thing it's what it is, which you would say. This directive is, in any case, a step in the right direction. So, I think that what this directive does in part has not yet lived in Croatia at all in the way it has been brought to life in some other countries of the Internet of things is something that in Croatia I'm not sure how far there is, especially not in some wider way, that use among citizens, in households which is some future of that, perhaps in professional systems and is to a certain extent, but today, let's say, tomorrow, it started talking about self-driving cars. This thing certainly has an application in it, but we think that, as Croatia, Croatia is unfortunately quite far away in the realization of it. And the fact that we are actually implementing this directive into our 3-year-old legislation is one witness to that. I think Croatia incomparably, it invests far too little in digital security and digital sovereignty, much less than it should. And I think we had a chance to do that and now that we've talked about budget rebalancing, that we've had opportunities to see that that's the way it is. So, I'd just do what although it's not today's topic here, but I'd just like to remind you, so the Department of Defense is more about spiritual care than about cybernetic abilities. And not a little bit more what but spiritual care is a 10.5 million increase on this rebalance by 215,000 kuna, and cybernetic abilities remain at 8.5 million kuna, I think it's the Ministry of Defense. In the SOA's budget, we mentioned to SOA which is one of the central bodies for, so we don't discuss it in principle so much here, nor do we have access to this plenary debate of SOA's budget, but we can discuss the general budget. I put forward yesterday in this debate the fact that the SOA budget is slightly less than 422 million kuna of the total SOA budget, so one piece of it is separate for cybersecurity. And let's say that the concorts with the Vatican cost us 344 and some change of millions. So, clean, so pacta sant servanda don't get me wrong, colleague Yankee or someone else, I'm not talking here right now that, so I'm not dealing with whether we need it or not, but just if we're talking about one central institution, one of the central institutions to ensure national security, and the other is a series of agreements that we have with the Holy Table, and the difference in the budget is 70- and almost 80 million kuna in theirs, compared to how much Croatia stands out for it, I have that problem with that, so the ratio I have a problem with. Just as we have a problem with more singleing out for administration and management in some resources that basically belong to social care than it stands out for, for cybersecurity. So, but it's all a matter of priority. I think we can discuss it or not, I just want to say I think it's definitely great, so we're implementing this directive into our legislation. It's not like we have a choice anyway, it's something we have to do. But what it should ultimately provide, therefore interoperability at EU level with other systems. Finally, when that happens, so when the EU really is in line on these issues, then this moment will happen that we are talking about. So, then there's going to be increased security, then there's going to be this interoperability, then there's going to be this famous digital sovereignty that we've heard about here several times and greater resistance to competitive economies. But until that happens, you can handle it, buddy, so each member state has a duty to take care of itself. And in this sense, in this debate, we have the need to highlight the fact that the general relationship to digital sovereignty, according to the digital eco-system towards cybersecurity in Croatia, is highly underrated, that we are quite lagging behind and that this is seen very well in the budget among other things. So, not underestimating the contribution that people like our secretary of state make here and I mean everyone else who works on it. The fact is that you're working with what you have, and I think people in Croatia who do it don't have enough. And that's the problem. And that we are not talking about the fact that in the Croatian Parliament, too, the fact that this debate of course did not encourage such an interest is one testimony that this topic does not have as much importance as it should have. For the last time in my first reading here, I had somewhat shaped my discussion in the direction of speaking about some phenomena in a digital eco-system such as blockchains, algorithms, or algorithmic discrimination, echo chambers and some other phenomena that could pose a threat to the digital ecosystem. Of course, there are also these frauds that were mentioned by the secretary of state in one of the replicas. This is a step in the right direction, but I really have no idea that cybersecurity in Croatian politics is talked about enough with enough seriousness and at a level higher than some day policy. When our prime minister recently spoke relatively recently of hybrid threats, that's what we're talking about. It's one of those things we should be dealing with here. After that there were no consequences, I did not see in the budget that there was any consequence not only in this but also in the past. So, what I have is just one of those big skeptics about how much we're going to achieve. And this is actually some kind of call to achieve, to invite us to really change something and really do something. And at the end of the day, I think regardless of who named this secretary of state on that duty and which is his background, he has a terribly ungrateful job that with little resources at his disposal is extremely difficult to do. This is extremely difficult, for one day someone will ask him what you did well and he will have to defend his achievements. And then at that point, it's going to take it fair to him and say, okay? You did what you could with what you had at your disposal. And at the end of the day it's a political decision, a matter of political priorities and the fact that something that is a regulation, when implemented in legislation, is not just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112014	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS of the respected Marijane Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112015	Thank you. Here's all the few here, so here's to continuing the debate of my colleague Glavasevic before and actually to say here at the beginning. This is one of those laws which, as the colleague says, does not drive a great deal of interest, but in the end, I think we will support it here and in some way, because it is actually a copy of European practices, laws, directives, regulations, regardless of how we are three years behind this law, but here is how the Secretary of State has comforted us, and this delay will not produce any great effect since even at the level of Europe some schemes have not been adopted that would ensure and apply what the regulation requires. I would perhaps as everyone has already talked about what this law only gives us for the general public has given us such a few lay-off explanations about what this is about. So we've all heard about computer viruses, leaks, data thefts, break-ins on non-markets, banking systems, financial data leaks, government data and various government leaks. So we live in a world where we're surrounded by smart devices, smart phones, televisions, refrigerators that are already communicating with each other today. The idea of Internet things, therefore, is known daily business life, changes daily as new technologies develop. And two years ago, at least in Croatia here was an unknown concept of work from home when you tried to arrange with your employer that you wanted to work from home, it was that panic and difficult organization. But here overnight, the pandemic made us, so very quickly we learned the well-being of work from home, became almost addicted to the Internet. So, digital and transformation of companies and the whole state, means that we are becoming more susceptible and computerized attacks, so new technologies other than benefits bring along new security risks and each other's. And what is this data security could also have been more difficult to get to know our citizens almost 100,000 who have recently experienced that hackers stole their data from one telecom operator, threatened to publicize all their details, all their data, and on the ground of Europe is just under way and physical war, hence aggression on Ukraine in which people are killed, but there is also a serious virtual or cyber war, a war on digital information, data that is no less important or frightening or fatal. In such an environment, as I said, it took us three years to discuss this law here, and I really hope that Europe will finally bring these agreed certification schemes to work as soon as possible, so that we can apply them as soon as possible and actually put this law into effect. So this law defines the Information System Security Institute as a national body for cybersecurity certification and a Croatian accreditation agency as a national accreditation body in the Republic of Croatia. And a few more things that I wanted to say here since I was working at the IT bank of one, I ran with the IT Department of Information Security, one of the jobs we've been dealing with, so here's the need just because there's a lot of information security and cyber security and cybersecurity, which is one thing, and what else does it make any difference what the difference is? The main difference I would say immediately is information security protects both physical and digital information, and cybernetic only digital information. So, information is taken care of and the paper is therefore known to the concept of a clean table, you must not leave any paper on the table, when you go to the printer you must have a card to print data that is only important to you and only to your eyes, etc., means to protect physical and digital data from unauthorized use of access and changes. Information security is also known as data security, data protection and business books, personal data, intellectual property can therefore be stored in multiple places in transferable disc documents, laptops, servers, personal devices and other devices, and information is certainly worth both for individual users and for the entire business organisation, so it is important to keep them safe and the information protection process is called information security. On the other hand, cyber security or cybersecurity refers to the protection of digital data against unauthorised use of access and any changes. Cybersecurity refers to taking the necessary steps to protect digital information that can be accessed by e.g. vulnerabilities in the network or in some other systems. Cyber attacks and distribution of maliciously infected software, etc. These are threats to information and cybersecurity should prevent these and such attacks. Now you've got cybersecurity experts, they're doing two kinds of tasks, they're doing research tasks like some kind of forensics, data restoration, security incident reporting, and here's also protecting and data from malicious attacks and developing protection against new malicious programs or so on. virus, therefore, used to protect data from various firewalls, etc. fire-walls professional name and systems against intrusion. So both of these practices take into account the value of data available or other words information security protects data from illegal access to any type, and cyber security or cybersecurity protects data from illegal digital access or we can say that it is also a fact that cybersecurity is actually a subset of information security, so here's a little clarification of concepts. And why will these things and this framework at the end and the European regulation and this law that we are now applying be beneficial to and to whom it will be and how it will be beneficial, for example. For example, citizens and end-users, they will be able to make better decisions on the products and services they use on a daily basis, e.g. if you are considering buying a smart TV, and you are aware of the cyber security risk of connecting smart objects to the Internet you will be able to find information about European cybersecurity certification on the European Agency's website and there you will be able or here a Croatian agency there to find a model certified according to the relevant standards, the seller's guidelines on security integration, the configuration of the use of such television and the information about how long the seller has the obligation to provide safety patches if any new weak points are discovered. To the manufacturers of products and services, this framework will help save time and money because in one process it will receive a European certificate valid in all Member States and this will allow them to compete across Europe, so this is the single market we heard about here at the pay phone. In addition, ICT products and services manufacturers are likely to also prepare for customers any additional materials, instructions and markings that speak about it and inform them of the benefits of that certificate. All in all, I am saying that we have heard the application of this regulation from a European level in our legislation through this law. We will, of course, support this law, and I say here I hope that this delay in this application as a colleague has said with all the digital in this country that we are late, we are nowhere near the digitally transformed state as it should be, we always see patterns, for example. I often mention Estonia and what it looks like there if you want to end up not knowing about tax returns or anything else. So, you've got enough cell phones to solve, or by the time we get to Estonia, we've got a lot of scratches, but here's hoping that in this cybersecurity we'll catch up with the world. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112016	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112017	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to argue anymore today, but since I've been called here, I'll get in a little bit if it's not a problem. It was said that in Croatia there is almost no Internet of things or Internet things. Let's see what we have at home in our household, how it connects and what it all connects. So almost every household has a fixed internet connection and there is a router that allows wireless connection to the Internet, right. Almost every household has a smart TV that connects to the Internet. I don't know if there's a household that doesn't have a computer that's connected to the Internet that has an even portable computer that's connected to the Internet. Well, he had a smart phone connected to the Internet. So we can connect the radio via bluetooth to the Internet or to some of our devices. And it's actually the Internet of things. Now, when we put other devices together, when we put other devices that can be connected to, to this one of ours, to our Internet like a white technique in the house that today when you buy a dishwasher that I was actually fraternized and amazed 10 years ago, my wife, when the dishwasher broke down and I call the master, the master asks me first which, which is the machine model, I read to him, so that he knows if he can connect to the Internet and whether he can do a malfunction detection on the Internet. So 10 years ago, we have a lot of these things that are connected to the Internet and that communicate with each other and that actually require exactly this standardisation. Secondly, I cannot agree with the fact that it is said that there is little investment in the security and protection of the system in Croatia. I've worked for almost 30 years, even more than 30 years, and I've been informing the government's body, and I know how much we've invested in security and certification. Many would be surprised to hear how many government bodies have a 27001 security certificate. So... This now certification, is a different certification going a little deeper, goes systematically on everything that needs to be covered to be safer and to fit into the security assumptions and security conditions that Europe is looking for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is exactly what should be on some standardized, it's almost impossible to standardize so far. Don't forget that not even in Europe until now unless there is a European cybersecurity certification scheme that no country in Europe has performed such a certification. And we heard from the secretary that these schemes were not yet completed, that they were not sent. Therefore, unless there is a European security certification scheme, there is no national and therefore no other EU country could do so and could not do so. And we'll spend it when that's the time. I believe that these two institutions that we listed in, or which legislator, I am sorry, the legislator stated in the law that they are ready to take over these obligations and that they will be at the moment when these schemes come to carry out all those jobs that we need to do. What's the bigger problem is that we all have to prepare for it. I IT companies and state-owned companies and those who do information for the state and those who are installed by certain parts. So we have to be prepared for that, we have to be aware that we can no longer afford to have any part that hasn't passed that certification. If we have a part in our product that has not been certified and certified, we can conclude that this product is not safe, and we cannot afford it. So we've got a lot of work to do, a lot of work ahead of us. Of course, there will be a lot of corrective activities. We know how, so far, we've been getting certificates for the ISO system, that it's been a long-term and this hard work, the hard work, that there's been a lot of corrective activities, so it's probably gonna be right here in this case, but I also believe that we're going to be able to fit into the security system. Europe. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112018	He has a replica of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112019	My colleague, thank you, Mr. Vice President, you may not have quite figured it out. I didn't call you. I referred to something you said. That was in no way a nickname to your account, just a reference to, to part of your speech. I mean, you now said in your debate that you cannot agree with the fact that Croatia is not investing enough and that it is lagging behind. But as you say it's a fact, I think it's something that stands in the text that we're discussing today and that's what I think I can understand that you don't see things like that, but among other things, I don't think you should go from an example of yourself and your wife because the internet of the thing is very far from, say, Petrinja, very far away from Bapaska or from some other places in Croatia. You know, so we have to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112020	I would suggest we read that sentence together, as it says in that sentence. It says that countries that have recently come to the EU, particularly countries from Eastern or Southeast Europe, have lag behind for three to four years. I don't think that's where Croatia belongs. Here's my point of view, and we can and can verify that you may have information, Mr. Secretary, how many of our companies and state institutions have certificates to see how much we're actually investing in that system. That's a lot. I think we need to realize that our citizens can never be 100% sure. That's a fact. None of us can connect to the Internet 100% sure it won't be stolen. But it is also a fact that we currently have very few cyber attacks in Croatia, and we must be very proud of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112021	Time. The next replica honors Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112022	In fact, I wanted to comment, you said you worked in the state administrations, and you're very much investing in certification, certifications are very long. I say I know the system, say, from a financial institution that also cares about security. A whole series of checks, audits, etc. That takes care of it. But here may be the question not for you, but for the secretary of state who is truly satisfied with the amount in the state budget intended for cybersecurity. Are the services satisfied? I know, here's what I'm saying from communication inside the company where I worked there's always a little money. Everyone pays, it's always a little money for all these tools, but here's what I'm really interested in, maybe through you to have the secretary of state answer whether he's happy with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112023	Okay, I'll answer how I figured it out. I think this money is actually reserved for security certification, and it's not meant to buy tools, system protection equipment. It's two separate segments. I think if I'm not wrong in three years or two, I think certification will be enough for us. Now, how much money we spent at the level of the year to protect the system, how much we bought various antivirus systems at the state level, how much we bought the systems, say how much we bought... Probably bought by your bank after those crypt attacks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was everything and everything and every institution invested in it. We can't say that we don't invest, we can't say that we invest too little, because that would actually be disinformation. And you can correct me, Mr. Secretary, if I've got this money right, which is actually reserved for certification, not for the protection of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112024	Final debate on behalf of HDZ's club, respected representative Siniša Jankac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112025	There's a big crowd of respected vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs. Here's the law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification, here's to congratulating fellow Pavic here's who to speak out of position, so congratulations. But here's the real story you were talking about. What's the fact, so it's about the certification itself, so as counterpart Pavić said, it's not about protection, although here's where my colleague Glavasevic mentioned insufficient funds, so I guess the ministry estimated how much they needed the funds for the certification itself. And as for protection, cybersecurity never enough, given what time we're in. But here's what I have to comment on. You took this link with the priests in the police and the military. And look, you know, for a long time, you've been an advocate to get it out of a contract that was signed long ago and that connects to a lot of other things, which are tied to your property that the church has and which the Republic of Croatia is using and which ultimately is as much as I think it is, and it's certainly compensated in this way. But here, these are two things that don't really have any connection, but here's a convenient connection. What is important to say is that the objective of cybersecurity certification itself is to strengthen the EU's single digital market, which would serve to achieve one of the EU's strategic objectives, i.e. digital sovereignty. In order to achieve this, all Member States have committed themselves to harmonising their regulations and their activities, and therefore this proposal is also the law. It shall be established that the national authority for cybersecurity certification is. The tasks and powers of this body, entries in the register, legal protection, supervision and criminal sanctions as a supervisory authority for cybersecurity certification in the Republic of Croatia shall be determined by the Information System Security Office, its operations, powers, powers of the institution shall be governed by the Regulation. The Office is also authorised to carry out the tasks of determining and the need to adopt as well as to adopt a national cybersecurity certification scheme itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This shows that the law in question should be adopted in order to improve the situation of European cybersecurity certification. Ensuring the implementation of the regulation and making assumptions about it, and encouraging the development of the Republic of Croatia in the digital economy through a coherent approach between public and private sector participants, since the certificate issued in the Republic of Croatia is valid throughout the EU, which will contribute to the functioning of the state, academic and economic sectors, in particular in the development of new Croatian products, processes and services of information communication technology. What should be said in any case that Croatia is not lagging behind other EU member states in terms of both certification and security itself. We can see it if we have traveled to Slovenia, if we have used Slovenian, Austrian or German banks, then several years ago, I was surprised at how much their banking system and not digitized who, for example, our banking system and in our country far earlier, we can say far better quality of our banks, if we take institutions that are private, but in this digital world, we can say far and far more quality even before we say their parent banks in Germany. If we're talking about broadband, today it was a topic on one of the board, so here's the broadband Internet, and in Europe it's at what level it is. Not exactly in the best condition [[Santer Invader: Time.]] You could say it all the way, but I'm not going to do it now. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112026	You've had enough river. A final debate will follow on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112027	So this regulation is certainly to support and here what is said in the information system so from the binary system so 0.1 and 0.1 are 0.1 and 0.1 and for colleagues Pavić and for me and for you I think there are things that are extremely clear that I can't be as clear as one plus one equal to two. Now normally that each of us can have some personal impression of how far we're ahead as far back as we are, so this cyber attack issue, we're a little specific. Whether we're lucky or really resist attacks is hard to know because we have some reports about how many there are, etc. I didn't honestly ask, so then I can't even get a grade on whether it's a matter of happiness or quality and ability. It's a lot to invest in, it's not a question of whether it's a lot to invest in, it's a problem for one another here, when we are investing in information in Croatia in general whether it's about server certificates or anything else, we have to watch out for one thing, and that's not how much we invest, but what we get from the investment. Because we still have systems that don't communicate with each other. And what does that mean? Then it's expensive because then you have to protect more systems, protect more systems means dispersion of risk without further ado. But let's just say we have a system of e-Citizens, but when we go to the e-Citizen system, then we need to get into e-Mup, then we need to get into e-Mup, and then we need to get into e-Mup, for example. I can't make a request for an I.D. I can do something else. Now the question is, are we going to verify each of these systems or are we going to verify one system because then it's a matter of life support you know then it's multiplying, here it's not a question that the certificate doesn't need to be introduced but the question of whether we're going to be effective in spending the certification funds. And we're back. I'll tell you why we're back because right now I've shown it, we haven't introduced it at all as a way of not certification but to protect against an attack something in Europe exists for a long time. In particular, I have been using it myself for ten years, which is not yet available in Croatia, which is a certified e-mail. This means that I have to have a digital identity which, for one let's say the service provider where it is very similar that has very strict control over your identity whether you are a business entity or not and that the recipient must also be established. To be clear, that doesn't protect us from the attack either, and that doesn't protect us from the attack. As I taught in the last century in information, then I'm going to say an old steam, you don't have password protection, the only protection is physical protection as in some other cases that aren't informative. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112028	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Bojana Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't actually answer for this final if my colleague Pavic and colleagues hadn't pulled my tongue. Ha, where to go from, a little note from the secretary of state isn't from the ministry, but from the central office, that's where you made a little lapus linguae, but I owe it to you, how I couldn't replicate it, then I'll draw your attention to that little slip. I'd like to start by perhaps from this comment you made on the Vatican Treaties, so I'd go back to my point, my point was not in this at least speech and in the conversation of this, attack at all the fact that we have it as a commitment. The Pacta Sunt Servanda, so until some discussion is made about when the Concords are changing, and Croatia can do so at any time as the other side is, international contracts are like that, so until this conversation is conducted or the political will for such a thing happens, it is our obligation and it is being carried out. I just wanted to put the context so that it simply compared the order of the size of the investment in such a thing on the one hand and into something that actually grows and not even so slowly it grows into a dominant form of security assurance. Not just national security, which is an archaic term, but human security. You want me to say that you're more exposed, that you're more exposed in case I don't know a teenager who's a state-sponsored hacker than China, for example. to hack your power grid and it's a problem. Your potential losses in this scenario are greater than those in the case of some kind of kinetic conflict that we have the opportunity to see, unfortunately, these months. So that's what this is all about. I believe and that is my political position to understand that the order of the size of the investment in this form of security should be significantly greater than it really is, on all the items we have. I singled out this item in the defence ministry's budget because it was singled out, we could see it as a single item here along with some other items not. So, there are obligations to invest something from your state budget in a concord obligation, but it is not necessarily specified what that amount should be no. And I would go back to the fact that I think that some things should still be a political priority. I mean, every honor of a commitment but ultimately, protection is one of the core business of the state, protecting its citizens. I think it's with all due respect if I'm going to be allowed to make a joke, I think it's more dangerous than cybernetic than hell, at least at this point, and at least for the vast majority of our citizens and citizens. Here's how I really want to believe this from that eternal curse. But joke aside. It's a joke on the side. I think that, okay, this is one topic in which we are actually what we are and you are a colleague in your debate reiterated this famous digital sovereignty and a single digital market that is then more resistant by the pressures of competitive markets, not the economy was a phrase. But actually what we're talking about here is what's kind of a general, general situation and how much of a purpose these things have in view of the situation and given the general approach to solving the problem. So, my colleague Pavic, now I refer to you again, so I understand that you may disagree with the assessment that things aren't as bad as they are, as I said or as they say in this document, but as I would say, I always think it's better to start from, than things are worse than they are. Whatever it is, because it avoids what I think is the most dangerous thing in political decision-making, which is underestimating the situation. We'd rather overestimate her than underestimate her. Here, I think it's just better to make a mistake for the sake of caution than to be too confident and then there's an unforeseen situation that threatens you and your citizens. I've wasted my time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-19-0.u112030	Here, with this we've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Secretary of State. We continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 p.m. Final proposal of the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 244. Session adjourned at 5:18 p.m.
