ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98694	First item - Final proposal of the Law on settlements, second reading, P.Z. No. 171. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I would ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the final proposal for a settlement law. With us is a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, Željko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98695	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected representatives of the current Law on settlements, which has been in force since 1988, shall be governed by the way and procedure of establishing the boundaries of the settlement, merger and separation of settlements, the designation of the name of settlements, streets and squares, the marking of buildings with numbers and keeping records of settlements, streets, squares and buildings. Since the application of the applicable Law on settlements has entered into force a whole series of legal, sub-legislative regulations relating to the area which is regulated by the now applicable Law on settlements and there is a need for the adoption of a new law in order to achieve horizontal compliance with the existing normative environment. This draft bill regulates the following: The power to determine home building numbers is aligned with the applicable State measure law of real estate catastra in a way that determines home building numbers in the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority. Furthermore, it is required that the representative bodies of the local self-government units make decisions on the basis and in accordance with the data contained in the spatial unit register. The following is the obligation to make decisions on the names of settlements, streets and markets in accordance with the previous opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Standardisation of Geographical Names. And finally, the way to determine the boundaries of the area of the settlement, the name of settlements, streets and squares, the marking of settlements, streets and squares, the marking of buildings with home numbers, is improved. What is the difference between the first law proposal implemented compared to this final proposal is defined in a way that the settlement can cover not only a part, but also the entire area of the unit of local self-government. It is prescribed that the home number marks all buildings for economic purposes, not only those in which the head office of an economic operator is as proposed in the first reading. The time limit for the adoption of the rules governing the way in which the name of the settlement, streets and squares will be marked, as well as the marking of buildings with home numbers from 12 to 6 months has been reduced. The smaller part of the provision is nomotechnically and explicitly completed. What will be achieved as positive effects of the adoption of this law is the improvement of the register of spatial units, which will contribute to increasing the quality of spatial data being kept and maintained in the register, benefiting from a large number of state bodies, public undertakings and other entities using spatial data in their daily business. By raising the quality of real estate data in the register of spatial units, data in the real estate and land books will be improved as basic registers for space. The creation of a framework for the establishment of a register of buildings aimed at strengthening, strengthening legal certainty, contributing to the transparency of business processes in banks, insurance, housing policy, spatial planning and construction, individual and mass assessment of the value of real estate and many other areas. Furthermore, the creation of a framework for the promotion and implementation of the digital census in the Republic of Croatia. Standardisation of the appointment of settlements, streets and squares, and thus compliance with the spelling norms of the Croatian standard language. And finally clearly prescribed procedures to determine the boundaries of the settlement area and determine the name of the settlement, streets and squares clear definition of the obligors, the acquisition, the setting of tiles and boards, and the carrying of the costs of setting them up, and standardisation related to the appearance of tiles marked by home numbers on buildings. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the state budget. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98696	Thank you, Secretary of State, stay here because we have replicas. First up, buddy Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98697	Honorable President, Your Honor. Please, what do you think about the behaviour of the city government of Zagreb, and about the return of Tito Square, the marshals, the second, call it how you experience it. Whether it will be a change in the name of the Republic of Croatia Square or find some new location. Which is why Zagreb needs Tito's square. Did he prevent the destruction of Zagreb, not those who retreated to save Zagreb, which they paid for with their lives in many graves in Croatia. He would ask political groups who love referendums, why they don't collect signatures and why they don't argue in Croatia, whether they need so many squares and streets named Tito. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98698	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98699	Thank you very much for this interesting question, but like this law itself, which is valid, this new one also determines that local administration is in charge of appointments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98700	Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98701	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I welcome all the changes you have accepted and brought between the first and second readings related to and the proposals not only of the board, but of the parliamentary representatives. My question would therefore concern, given that there is a committee on standardisation and street names and squares and that certain recommendations have been passed, but that we will, in fact, pass this law here, let's say the full normative compliance and also horizontally, whether by the very rate of this law we are going to make and certain obligations towards our citizens, specifically related to changing domestic numbers, so that in these difficult times we will go with another additional cost for our citizens, or in fact this law will not come into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98702	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98703	Thank you very much, in the transitional provisions of this law there is no provision that would be forced to force the local administration to change the existing streets. This law will apply from the moment of adoption and all new appointments of the street will then be aligned with it, and the old will not be forced to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98704	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98705	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state, I'm actually going to continue on the replica of my colleagues, and also my replica that I last set up to the secretary of state, a colleague of your Magash, so I come from Međimurje, and you know that there are a lot more illegal houses there, illegal settlements, your colleague told me that it's all arranged under the Law on Construction, or the Law on Spatial Planning, and then I asked her about these additional costs, if every house still has its own number, it's going to be expenses for our citizens, so she said again that, on the one hand, it's going to be a cost for the owner of the house, and on the other hand, it's going to be arranged by units of local self-government. And now in this interpretation you've given us, in this final proposal, where you refer to the question asked by me and some other colleagues, you say there will be no additional costs for the citizens. So here you are, please explain, what in these situations when additional legalization of houses, additional numbers, additional tiles, additional documents. Who's gonna pay for that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98706	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98707	In any case, space is the most valuable resource of every country and when it is damaged, its value, when its integrity is damaged it is hardly correct and the greatest damage is done. So, we defend legality in space and if someone acquires legality afterwards, he'll need to regulate all his documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98708	Here you go, Comrade Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98709	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State. First, let me thank you because here we saw between the first and second readings that you adopted certain of our suggestions, so you're in art. 7 introduce the commission's obligation to give an opinion within 30 days of the date of receipt of the proposal, for the name of the settlement, street and square, i.e. to change the name of the settlement, street or square, and of course you put it here and in art. 5, possibly if the request is a little more complicated, let it be 60 days, but the commission is here according to this new legislative proposal in the final reading however it is necessary to do what we thank and remind you that it can be co-operated, here and some respected colleagues on this side of the assembly have said once again, I will remind you, on the initiative of the Homeland Movement in Velika Gorica, on 28 January this year, we changed the name of Marshall Tito's square to the City of Vukovar, and the costs of changing personal documents will be borne by the city of Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98710	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98711	I thank you for the reminder and that's exactly how it is, so all the quality suggestions for the improvement of our citizens will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98712	Here you go, pal Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98713	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This part of the law relating to economic operators. I only ask that little clarification, so it's not only on the seat but also on the buildings that are in the system, whether it applies to family farms, and who will bear part of the then payment of the change, or the establishment of these same home numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98714	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98715	Therefore, there was a requirement, which was accepted that home numbers were placed not only on the headquarters of an economic operator but also if they had moved their auxiliary buildings or other properties, that domestic numbers were placed on them too. And that request was adopted precisely for the reason that, among other things, home numbers know what they are for, they also serve for fire stations, the urgent actions of all those involved in the emergency care system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98716	Here you go, fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98717	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I wonder if this law or perhaps related laws can solve problems that arise right in cities and municipalities when problems with borders and addresses are between two settlements, two neighborhoods. In fact, we have problems within the Holy Sunday itself, but your problem has also been there since 2008, 2009 when they went to coordinate the data of the DGU police, the cadastre and the grantovna with the fact that the cadastre and the grantovna continue to coordinate, as it then resolves. Can this be decided by the city or by the community? Is a local referendum being held to look left and right of the border, so how do people express themselves and what is the procedure? So one thing is, so this is within cities and municipalities, and the other is that when people overnight say so, they get into another county. So from Zagreb County to the City of Zagreb. It's an example of you on the Pavicnik where it happened to you where people just started getting tickets. which is the procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98718	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98719	Decisions on home numbers are done in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Law on Cataster or State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster, so not under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98720	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, since you've given the authority to monitor the communal directors for the control of building markings to home numbers, don't you think that's actually one declarative provision because if they're going to do building marking control with home numbers, they won't be able to do anything else. So that's one I mean excessive provision that gives jurisdiction to the communal directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98722	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98723	Thank you very much for this question. However, the space control system has been established. The communal editors are these, they're those people who just have jurisdiction on their local, in their local administration, and that they can track what's going on in the space and possibly intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98724	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98725	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that you have accepted suggestions on the definition of the settlement and the unit of local self-government that may consist of one or more settlements and a proposal to shorten the time limit for the adoption of the Regulations on the designation and designation of settlements, streets and squares. What I wanted to ask you in the replica, I know it is not the subject of this law but many units of local self-government because of the lack of harmonisation of the borders of settlements and catastrian municipalities have disputes in establishing the limits that are resolved under the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Some units of local self-government have disputes that last for 10 and 15 years, which prevents normal treatment, the functioning of these units of local self-government, so it would be good to establish criteria and deadlines through this law so that these really long disputes are resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98726	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98727	Therefore, in the jurisdiction of all those participating in these procedures, attention will certainly be paid to the acceleration of these procedures that are so long-term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98728	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98729	Dear Secretary of State, here I am reading in Article 2. The settlement is part of or the entire area of the unit of local self-government consisting of construction areas etc., etc., I would like the law to define and settlements that are not inhabited and at which point the settlement ceases to be a settlement. Unfortunately, we have a huge depopulation, emigration, and therefore some settlements lose the attributes of the settlements, and the settlements are, above all, a place where people live. The second thing, here's one small answer to my colleague Kirin, so as to change the name of the street and squares now here's to Article 7(3), the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to agree with the change. So if there is a change, if a change of name is attempted again in Marshal Tito's Square, then it should be allowed by the government so that we know who's guilty or maybe it won't happen at all. And finally, if the competent cadastrian office does not give a solution to the change in home number What to do in Sibenik we have cases that it wasn't done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98731	So exactly the Law on State Measurement and the Catatra regulates a whole set of these issues and procedures and jurisdictions as to how to reach home numbers. So, it's not the subject of this law, but the State Measurement Act and the Realty Cataster are currently working out this procedure in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98732	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is an extremely life-threatening law that is applied very often in many units of local self-government are always changes and it is really necessary that it enters into force as soon as possible. Congratulations on reducing decisions in the sublegal act that you will make not 12 but in 6 months, but I hope that you are already at the end and that you will not have to wait 6 months because many municipalities and cities and counties are waiting for the adoption and after that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98734	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98735	Yeah, of course the rulebook works parallel to the law and will speed up its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98736	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98737	Dear Secretary of State today we have had a very lively discussion on the Committee on Space about what the government is really doing. The government's mission and those who come before the government is to defend the compliance of the law. What you accepted about companies we led on that committee when discussing it was a very heated debate where I explained to you that the headquarters of the company was defined by another law and that it was completely illogical that it was written. And now your colleague has just warned you about the fact that you're de facto transferring the law to the burden of units of local self-government where I have to admit very probably in a good part of the local self-government unit it won't have anyone to implement it. In the City of Zagreb and these great cities will be found somehow. But I'm asking you how you're gonna spend it in small settlements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98738	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98739	Thank you very much. So when it appeals to the rationality and harmonisation of the law, then it is fully arranged who cares about the situation in space and it would not be a good idea to appear with new solutions when it is already settled. Therefore, communal officers have their responsibilities, their actions are settled in the Law on Construction Inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98740	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98741	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. You have already been asked by your colleague Marić and colleague Ivanovic the same thing I want to ask you, because you cannot answer us, we discussed it in the first reading. So, you said that the home number would also be given to all economic operators regardless of whether their headquarters is in that place or somewhere else. This means that agricultural operators will also have to be equipped with a home number, and in the meantime you mentioned that this law does not produce any financial costs for the state. I want to know who's going to pay for the house numbering of agricultural economic operators and those in which they're not based, so that's where I'm thinking about farms. Will the farms have to have a home number?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98742	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98743	So as I replied, so in the second law, the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty was resolved by the process of bringing home numbers. There, in detail, the process is being elaborated and the way it is assigned and the cost borne.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98744	My colleague, Grba-Bujevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98745	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Secretary of State, the final proposal is in front of us, and you have accepted many suggestions that came from clubs, and what of the representatives and one that should certainly mention is the change you have accepted regarding the concept of the settlement. This change that was proposed she came from the field itself, and I think it's important things to say once again that it now says that settlements can be part of a local self-government unit or a whole unit of local self-government. That is, the reason for that change was that otherwise it couldn't be implemented on the ground, so what you accepted with pleasure is to commend you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98746	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98747	I thank you for supporting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98748	And the last replica of my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98749	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State there are a number of cases in front of the government's Commission for the Determination of Borders between local self-government and this takes a long time. The last municipalities or local self-government were created in 2006. I want to ask you a question given this final bill whether it contributes to the fact that the government's commission can finally make the necessary decisions, given that we have examples that there are local self-governments as we have heard from one or more settlements. There are local self-governments that cover a part of other settlements through their borders, perhaps not all but part of it creates certain problems. They also create problems in the census. So I am now asking the question whether through this Final Bill we are going to enable this government commission to finally start making decisions and that these decisions are then really following everything that is written through this law, the Law on the areas of municipalities, cities, counties and thus trying to resolve these recommendations that have been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98750	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98751	This law improves a number of situations that are real, but in any case, procedures that are conducted each procedure has some specificity, so it depends on which part of the procedure has stalled. But this law promotes a whole series of procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98752	I thank the Secretary of State, we've come to an end with replicas, so you can return to your post. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Comrade Štromar, chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98753	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 2 February 2022, the Committee discussed the final proposal for a Law on settlements and after the opening explanation of the representatives of the proposers, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98754	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate now. The first is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98755	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm glad to see this number of seats and this number of MPs in the assembly, and that says we're back to normal. But there's no greater evidence that we've returned to normal than the fact that in some law, the Law on settlements has been mentioned five times in the first replicas by Marshal Tito. So that's the best proof that we've come back to normal, that the corona, the earthquake, are rebuilding everything behind us and that we're back to Ustashas and Partisans, which is our favorite theme. Well done! As regards the idea that in Article 7(3), this Committee on Standardisation of Geographical Names would be a kind of censor or historical or cultural or moral police. It is the authority of the local self-government unit to name streets, settlements and squares and so forth, and this standardisation can only be whether the square can be called Joseph Broz or Marshal Tito. It could be standardisation, and if you wanted to highlight this part of World War II anti-fascist struggle, then you'd be a marshal, if you wanted to be whole, then you'd be Joseph Broz. So that's the point of standardisation. And if someone thinks someone shouldn't have a street then it'll go to the Constitutional Court. Let's say I'm interested in the position of the Constitutional Court in the streets that has NDH chief in Croatia right now, there are a dozen of them I think. On one street I made my own decisions and changed, the Constitutional Court confirmed. So this sweet trust in the commission that the sixth person will save the marshal from these others is not fully founded but welcome for this debate. Now let's get back to settlement law. This is one of the most sensitive political laws, and I think it's entirely wrong to be represented by the Ministry of Space Planning. This is either for the Ministry of Management or for the Ministry of Administration because nothing that has been a problem so far has been too much solved by this new law, and what you asked the Secretary of State yourself has not yet been given convincing answers. There are a few things that need to be resolved by the Law on settlements combined with the Law on Regional Units, Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. First, if the Units Act, about areas, I'll talk briefly, says that part of the settlement is in one JLS, and part of the settlement in the other, then it's in accordance with this law that says that the settlement is part of one unit or the entire JLS and then it's impossible to set the boundaries of two JLS because it's necessary to set the limits of two parts of the settlement. So I believe that this law should stipulate that the settlements, that the settlement can only be part of one JLS. If somewhere the Law on Areas is written that part in one, part in the other then it should be defined as two settlements and then put that slesh, so settlement 1, municipality 1 and settlement 1, municipality 2 and then you have two settlements in two JLS, not one settlement in two JLS, that's one. Secondly, the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Resolution of the Borders of the municipalities, and in one part it was the headquarters of the Ministry of Administration, but it was inter-resort and it was basically resolving political recommendations. For example, the borders of Solin and Klisa, then the boundaries of the settlements belonging to Solina and Klis, and the attempt to single out a settlement that is part of Klis municipality into another settlement that should become part of the town of Solin, and the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2011 and the annulment of that decision in the government in 2011 or '10. some of those years. Why? Because they're about like '92. in all settlements that need to resolve their borders, the government of democratic unity formed, and then HDZ's would lobby with HDZ for their municipality, the SDP's of the SDPs, if there were any of these others, would lobby those others to remain in the alleged signs in that JLS. Then it's more fair that it's settled by the court, that was my proposal in the first reading. The government's answer is, but the government, not the ministry, is that it's settled in another law, so I'm curious whether it's better or not, if you better change that other law, so it's not, it's not the laws of eternity, so if it's determined that something's not good to change. Also a question, a matter of violation provisions that I mentioned. Often in political debates, it mentions and calls for a Law on settlements that did not actually solve those things for which it is called, and has not solved what the ministry does which it does not, as Croatia says the core business. So I will repeat, I think that this law in the most part should be in the jurisdiction of either the MUP or the Ministry of Administration and Justice, and that the Ministry of Civil Engineering and DGU need to be a self-port because most of the dispute is not, not in spatial geodetic catastrian matters, but in purely political matters, street names, JLS borders, settlement borders, all this is a political issue that the Ministry of Construction is trying to do, and I would be doing in their place, too, because simply these things, it's not a profession for them, it's not something they should be dealing with because there are other state bodies. One of the sensitive questions I mentioned was an article. 9th of this law, which states in JLS, in which the language and letter of the national minority board with the name of the settlement or square, except in the Croatian language and the Latin letter, contains a name in the language or letter of the national minority, in accordance with the regulation governing the equal use of the language and letters of the national minorities. If the representatives of national minorities who support the government have not voted to write for this provision a violation provision, then their existence in this assembly is unnecessary and should be lifted by the election of members of national minorities. My colleagues and colleagues, I will submit an amendment to that, but it is your task, therefore, not to act as representatives of national minorities but to fight within the framework of the government to finally settle the issue and that those who do not respect the law that concerns you are sanctioned then you are unnecessary in the assembly and it is unnecessary to support such a government. Here's what I'm gonna tell you better than to let those on your right. The SDP Club will submit an amendment, therefore, to this law, as far as this is concerned, and we do not accept the argument that it is governed by another law. No, no, so the special law regulates the law, and this law regulates the way in which this right is exercised, and this law should be governed by criminal provisions if someone responsible for the implementation does not do so. Finally, depending on our amendment, the SDP Club will decide how it will vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98756	We're going to the 2nd debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Shimprags, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98757	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director, the Deputy, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard in our first and second readings, the current Law on settlements dates back to 1988. Over time, there has been a need to modernise the process as well as to comply with other positive regulations. There have been certain procedures in the text of the proposal between the first and second readings. We welcome the fact that the concept of the settlement is clarified in a way that the settlement can be part of JLS or the entire unit of local self-government. It is also commendable to cut deadlines for submitting sublegal regulations from earlier 12 to 6 months. The limitation of the time limit to 30 or 60 days, respectively, in which the Committee on Standardisation of Geographical Names will give an opinion on proposals for the names of settlements, streets and squares should lead to a reduction of procedures and they should not or should not be allowed to continue indefinitely. In the first reading, there was a controversy and a misunderstanding about Article 9 of the Law or any breach of the provisions for non-compliance with it. The proposal in the first reading went right in the infringement provisions of the Law on settlements provide for sanctions if the board with the name of the settlement, street and square except in the Croatian language and the Latin letter does not contain a name in the language and letter of the national minority in accordance with the regulation governing the equal use of the language and letters of the national minorities. This proposal has not been adopted or has not been included in the final proposal of the Law on Populations more precisely the conditions for the application of the prescribed law on the use of language and letter of national minorities, and Article 10 of that Law stipulates that in municipalities and cities where the language and letter of the national minority is equally bilingually or multilingually, among other things, the names of the streets and squares and the names of the place, while the provision of Article 9 of the Law merely refers to provisions governing the equal use of language and letter of national minorities or to the provisions of the general regulation. But here we come to a kind of plot. The cited Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, which has existed since 2000, in an article relating to the implementation of the law and the consequences of non-compliance, did not best define which sanctions are imposed by those who do not comply with the law but merely states that the non-application of the equal official use of the language and letters of the national minority in the municipality, the city or the county in which the statute is introduced and its application is contrary to the provisions of this law in the proceedings before bodies which are obliged to carry out the equal official use of the language and letters of the national minority constitutes an essential violation of the procedure. That's all. There's no sanctions. As much as we think that the objection concerning the non-application of Article 9 of the Law on settlements in place is nevertheless about referring to the general regulation and sanctioning needs more than the non-application of bilingual inscriptions of settlements, streets and squares because bilingualism is much more than the inscription of settlements, streets and squares. In this context, it might be more appropriate to review the provisions on criminal liability in the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, especially for those who are threatening bilingualism in the environments where all the preconditions are met, and nothing has been happening for many years. If I came back, it would be kept in determining the name of the settlement, the street and the squares, or Article 6. The first is the local authorities of municipal or city halls to name streets, squares, avenues, periways, settlements on their own. The question is how to prevent such areas from being named in municipalities and cities by the names of NDH officials. I think it would be good to install in this article a provision under which designated settlements, streets, squares must comply with the original foundations of the Constitution and must not be opposed to them. As regards the determination of domestic numbers, the current Law on settlements has been set out in a different way than prescribed by the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates and therefore there is a need to comply with those legal provisions in a way to prescribe that solutions on home numbers are determined by the local competent catastrian office. It is also prescribed that a panel with the name of the settlement is considered a panel which is a traffic sign of the name of the settlement and is also more clearly prescribed to obtain and place records with the names of the settlements or boards with the names of streets and squares, which has rarely been a problem so far. With regard to the supervision of building markings, home numbers are prescribed to be carried out by municipal directors in accordance with the regulation governing the municipal economy. This if I may call it the Updating of the Law on settlements explains certain problematic situations on the ground, but also opens up many other problems. During the debates in the first and second readings, certain issues have been raised that do not yet fall within the content of this law, so they will need to be considered and, consequently, discussed at some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98758	As third on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Kajtazi, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98759	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about settlements or in this case about the Law on settlements, I cannot say a word about the settlements in which my fellow countrymen Roma live. Although it is the scope of a short law that regulates strictly certain topics such as the process of establishing the boundaries of the settlement area, the way in which the name of the settlement, streets and squares, and buildings are defined, this proposal has offered me to say a few words about the conditions in the Roma settlements in which our fellow citizens live. But before I go there, I'd like to look back on a devastating fact about street names or squares. In fact, Roma have been present in Croatia for 700 years, and there is almost no street or square named after a Roma. For example, for years I've been trying to... near Jasenovac, where there was a site in World War II where Ustasha authorities killed thousands and thousands of Roma, let us call no street of Roma victims, but the Jasenovac municipality does not even respond to the letters referred to the topic, let alone to initiate the appointment process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about Roma and Roma settlements, I will first say that according to the 2011 census, there are close to 17,000 Roma living in Croatia. Data on the nationality of Croatian towns and municipalities from last year's list have not yet been completed but the previous estimates and information they say in Croatia currently lives close to 40,000 Roma. Such a difference in relation to the 2011 census occurs because a large part of Roma is not declared as Roma but as members of another nationality. Of the official number of Roma most live in Međimurje County, close to 12,000 of them, there are also 12 Roma settlements in Međimurje, and the largest among them is the town of Parag, which even has close to 2,000 inhabitants. Of course, Roma live not only in isolated enclaves called Roma settlements but also in settlements with the rest of the population, but most of them still reside in these traffic-distant infrastructure poor. When we talk about these settlements, the main characteristics that are being seen are the chaos of planning what is a spontaneous approach to building a settlement, then there is a cut-off from the rest of the city or place of reduction of infrastructure networks based on electricity, water, possibly waste of garbage, and sometimes not even that. The additional fact that many houses in these settlements have been illegally built makes it difficult to legally settle and improve stable conditions. And while you'll never hear from me that I support illegal construction, what I have to say to this occasion is that the good part of the units of local self-government in terms of spatial plans in terms of Roma settlements, because certain municipalities and cities have for years not come up with plans that would involve the real situation and thus allow for the settlement to be arranged. The easiest thing to say is this is illegal, so we don't have to bring the road or the sewerage, and that's where a couple hundred or thousands of people live, families with small children don't worry too much about most local authorities. It would be unfair to say that it is so everywhere and that there are no positive examples, among them there is certainly the city of Belisce headed by Mayor Buric, who I thank again for everything he has done for the Roma community there. For an illustration of the situation, I will present a few figures from an excellent book "Inclusion of Roma in Croatian Society: Women, Youth and Children", namely all indicators of poverty and material deprivation speak of the very poor economic situation of most Roma households, especially in central Croatia. The average monthly income of Roma households is around 2.670 kuna and 65% has a total monthly income of less than 3,000 kuna, even 92.4% of Roma households are at risk of poverty. In almost every other Roma household, someone went to bed hungry in the previous month, about 28% of Roma families live in homes that are in poor condition or are ruins and about 4% more in barracks, dandelions or foreigners. Roma households by number of members, especially children, are significantly larger than those in the general population, but housing is small, overcrowded, inadequately equipped. The housing of Roma households in Croatia is among the worst in the EU, the lack of rooms and other infrastructure facilities such as sewers, running water, sanitary knots. More than 70% of Roma live in concentrated Roma settlements where various hygienic health risks are present, and a third of Roma live in ruins and inadequate facilities. Data on the size of the residential areas in which Roma live show that the average size of the Roma household is 50m2, with an average of 67,4m2, reminding that Roma households have an average of more than five members. Most of them are the largest Roma households in Zagreb and the surrounding area, it is 90m2, and the smallest one is in Međimurje where the median is almost three times smaller 33.5m2. For comparison, the total average size of residential living space in Croatia is significantly higher and is 81m2. All this information that may seem dry at first is to draw attention to the living conditions of the Roma again. And why am I saying that? So primarily because housing deprivation is the dimension of social exclusion, and it refers to housing and the existence of housing problems. The most pronounced problem is moisture, two-thirds of Roma households have wet walls, floors or foundations while in each other's Roma household the roof leaks. About 42% of Roma households have rotten window windows, and a third of the household is located in a space that has not enough sunlight. As regards housing with basic facilities, more than half of the Roma households in the house or in the apartment where there are no toilets, and every other Roma household does not have a shower or bath in the living room. Even 73% of Roma households are not connected to the sewer system, some of them have septic caves, but 48% have neither, nor others, 43% have no water obtained through the water supply, and 20% of households in the living room have no kitchen, and 11% have no electricity. Here are the conditions when we talk about Roma settlements, so imagine whether you can have a normal happy childhood or develop a business career in such circumstances? So I'm going to list a few of the following things that I'm going to find crucial to getting the Roma out of that spiral of poverty of exclusion. The first is to provide spatial planning documentation for Roma settlements in order to create conditions and employment of Roma population housing, then the aim is to regulate and equip and improve the quality of housing in legalised Roma settlements is to address property legal relations in Roma settlements. All this together tells us that it takes synergy of more public actors to prevent more than 70% of Roma from living in segregated settlements without social content. However, participants who are not left behind in the process are certainly JLS because without them there is no movement on settlements, and units of regional and local self-government as project holders often require co-financing of infrastructure for Roma settlements, but what happens then is an absolute situation. In fact, very often JLS often do not spend funds intended for Roma settlements but return them to a neutral or even more absurd thread do not appear in a tender in which they can receive funds that would arrange settlements by acting as if members of the Roma national community were not their citizens who have the right to all infrastructures as well as the majority population. I have already said that, of course, this is not always the case and that there are, for example, Belišce or the White Manastir whose leaders are trying, but unfortunately, those who don't try have many more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98760	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected colleague named Nadj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98761	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director with Deputy. The current Law on settlements in force has been applicable since '88, so it is a law that applies in full 33g. in unchanged form. Rare are so long-term laws in our legal space that have been applied without changes for many years exclusively because they have been quality-made according to the rules of the profession. In the Republic of Croatia, we tend to change the laws multiple times the way political winds blow without a previous assessment of the impact of the regulations and without thinking about whether we could achieve some other way without applying it, without changing the legal text. Rarely, when listening to the opposition proposal, however high quality it is because, by accepting the opposition proposal itself, we stick to the chip label or the inability of the applicant to propose a quality law. But today we have before us the final proposal of the Law on settlements that some claim to be purely technical law. I would disagree with these claims because the law proposes to regulate the boundaries of the area of the settlement, the designation of the name of the settlement, streets and squares, the designation of the name of the settlement, streets and squares, and the marking of buildings with home numbers. Whoever represented the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb in 2017, and there are among the MPs and in this assembly, knows that the debate over the renaming of the square of Marshal Tito in the Square of the Republic of Croatia was not at all technical because it was clear to everyone that the late mayor Bandic traded his stay in power for a change in the name of Marshall Tito Square. So, deep into the night, we didn't discuss the technical problems of replacing a panel called Marshal Tito's Square, the font of letters, its color, the new name of the Republic of Croatia, but I also highlighted the political aspect of the change in the name of the market. And then I pointed out that by actually moving the name of Marshal Tito's Square, it wanted to wipe out the memory of a military leader, statesman, politician who in the anti-fascist struggle in World War II, Croatia brought to the winning club. Access to that club was paid by the blood of thousands of anti-fascist fighters. Today as never, I think it's clear to everyone how much state courage it took for Stalin to say no. Miroslav Krleža said about him in the war against Hitler naked, so he managed to tell Stalin not to hold out. Tudjman said about Tito he was a communist, Marxist, but he was a very pragmatic politician and wanted to achieve the equality of the Croatian people within Yugoslavia, and he also wanted that Yugoslavia, its socialist Yugoslavia, be equal in relation to the Soviet Union and Stalin. As in this final proposal of the Law on settlements under Art. The name of the settlement, street and square shall be determined by the decision of the representative body of JLS, according to the previously obtained opinion of the Council of the Local Committee or other form of local self-government located in the area in which the name of the settlement, street or square is determined or changed. However, the opinion of the Council of the City Quarter or of the Council of the Local Committee or of another form of local self-government shall not be binding on the representative body. In fact, even in the case of that market, the Ministry of Administration has shown that although the City Council meeting of Donji City and the meeting of the Local Committee of Mimara have adopted a negative opinion on the renaming of Marshall Tito Square, citizens do not commit to a city assembly which has other facts and circumstances in mind can decide differently from the citizens' opinions expressed on the previous issue. What other facts and circumstances are not said. So, according to Art. 6th century 6th of this final proposal of the law settlement, street and square can have a name by general geographical terms,... , plant and animal species, occupations, by names of persons and organisations who made a significant contribution to social, cultural, political and scientific development, by names of other settlements, cities and states, by historical events, movements and dates related to historical events and others, and on the street name can also be marked as numerical. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is, are we in this assembly, for example? agreeing on the names of persons and organisations that have made a significant contribution to social, cultural, political and scientific development? Especially when it comes to political development, we certainly do not agree, as we were not then in the town hall in 2017. and then we are offered the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the standardisation of geographical names because according to Article. The names of settlements, streets and squares must be in line with the previous opinion of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Standardisation of Geographical Names. At least here is a controversial standardisation of geographical names because it will make it easy for committee experts to agree, but the names of the people who contributed to political development obviously will not. I'm sure there will be opinions like that of Pete's Delfa prophetess ibis redibis numquam peribis and bello, so you'll go back and you won't die in the war. It all depends on where you put the decimal. So, the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Standardisation of Geographical Names is not here to be an arbiter of political opposition. However, this final bill does not address the issue, for example. If the citizens of Trešnjevka would like to rename Juri Gagarin's promenade, which leads to the Ministry of Croatian Defence building to Trešnjevci placa, I am not sure that in this rush of anger against all Russian someone comes to mind and this crazy idea. I wonder what the opinion of the government's commission and its reasoning would be. So, this final bill is technically correct, but if there is, if we had a 33-year law that we haven't changed about settlements that obviously worked well, maybe we should give in the new law a little bit of guidance, some grounds that in the case of reluctance decision-makers have something to catch up on. This is how this technically correct law on disputed situations has no guidance in the law or in the right arbitration panel, which would lead to a decision on the basis of these guidelines. Thus, we will leave this technically correct law in the implementation of the state administration body in charge of geodetic and catastrian affairs or the State Geodetic Administration that will operate by system, and we would not want to interfere until things are settled. We'll have each other's shellings in representative bodies around the world's view and political struggles anyway. There'll still be a hammer on the board that someone doesn't like. Infringements of the provisions apply only to the owner or manager of the building for not setting up tiles with a home number. Citizens will continue to fight long-term battles if they want to change the borders of the settlement until their request passes all the instances as was the case with the citizens of Podbrežje when they wanted to join the village of Siget from the village of Sveta Klara in Zagreb. This law does not offer faster procedures for changing the area of the settlement, and should. Haven't we seen where it gets stuck in certain stages of the process in 33 years? And once again, citizens will be paid for changes in documents due to changes in address for unnecessary changes in street and square names. Who's going to say when it's unnecessary and when it's necessary to change the name of the street or the square? This law didn't settle it. Maybe it's better because this debate would be a long night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98762	Now two, two MPs, counterpart Petrov and counterpart Bulj will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most. They'll be the first to be a colleague of Petrov's, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98763	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, reading this bill, I came to the conclusion that our government of the Republic of Croatia has a tendency to create commissions. Well, in this law, we have two commissions. We have a committee on standardisation of geographical names, we have a commission from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to border units of local self-government. At this rate, we will soon have more commissions than the law in the Republic of Croatia, and since I have not seen any of these committees subject to any laws and deadlines even from last debate, this means that soon we will have additional laws for these committees. Well then what was simply going to become complex, what was already complex would become completely incomprehensible. I think that because of the law, it is also the question of the effectiveness of such committees during the last debate on the effectiveness of such committees because they are very often formed to remove the process rather than solve the problem. Just remember the Cyrillic in Vukovar, the ZDS and the rest of what we have a commission for, we'll agree on a commission and it'll solve it. So then the train goes by, the grandmother goes by with the cookies, no one asks any more questions. There's a commission there. There's something he's doing. I would ask you to do what we do to arrange the laws for them to be as simple as possible, more logical. And that these commissions within the powers given to them if they need to do so have not only powers, have responsibilities, have responsibilities, have deadlines. The commissions shouldn't be afraid of deadlines if they're professional. For this reason, we believe it is entirely justified to ask that this proposal for a law in Article 6 of the Government's Commission for Standardisation of Geographical Names has a legal deadline within which to give an opinion. Is it necessary to have this commission? So if all history, culture, social characteristics of the environment are respected, from which the request for a commission like this is required in line. To me, honestly, this commission looks like some kind of politician who's going to decide what to laugh about, which isn't allowed when there's a centralization, so there's going to be a government president out there to decide what name to use, which name can't be used, but give people at least a deadline. I think it's fair that there's a deadline within which this commission will give an opinion or there are sacred cows. Secondly, we consider it justified to propose that jurisdiction to decide on the limits of the unit of local self-government is transferred to courts at the time when units of local self-government do not comply in agreement or for that to take a commission at some national level. The explanation that you have rejected this proposal is that you cannot rule it out, it is harmonized with the other, no, no, you can exclude it from this bill, and thus comply with the Law on County, Cities and municipalities not which you are calling. The third thing I think is that it is really necessary to define clearly in Article 5, which is the most appropriate way to collect citizens' opinions if their ambition is to merge, to separate the settlements within local self-government units if that local self-government unit has no shape in that place, but to form a local self-government. The ability of the local self-government unit to decide independently what it is credible and objectively leads me to the unnecessary creation of the process, waiting for a commission at some national level to make a decision instead of being simple, define for yourself what form it is and it is followed. I also believe that the bill does not clearly define which EU regulations define the length of the characters and all other international standards. Is it good to standardize things? Yes, but also if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are already obliged to follow certain standards then it is necessary to specify exactly what standards these are, which are EU provisions. These provisions should not be cited because they are subject to changes, but they can be linked to which provisions are meant, these are the provisions and these are followed. What's that? No one knows. What EU provisions? No one knows. I think that would be a good idea. Also mention the concept of a solution, not a decision, just by defining in paragraph 2 of that same article that the solution is not an administrative act only tells you that you are aware that this can lead to problems. I think it would be good for standardisation and expressions in the law to use more precise terms. At this point it's not a solution, it can be a decision. Yes, I could also talk about this exposure as well as my colleagues about what is missing from our settlements, which is what should be done and if I'm going to talk about it, and I believe that my colleague Bulj will also talk about it we should fight for an equally developed Croatia, that everyone has the same conditions, and I think that those settlements and those areas of the Republic of Croatia from which people emigrate do not have equal opportunities, and I especially think of the Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98764	Now, let's continue, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98765	When we talk about settlements and this law I think that we are a country with close to 600 units of local self-government, local committees don't even know the number, but that smallest local committee was here... I've become mayor since 2007 and the president of the local board always points out that and that's basically life. There are issues here that you have listed in essence that are house numbers, cadastres and these cadastres the work of some institutions that you will have to do, but here is the forgotten one thing, one thing for me very important. Unfortunately, numerous hearths and numerous settlements are shutting down, and I don't know the exact number, and we could check so I don't know which way you did it in this law procedure, which with these settlements, how to mark, why all these buildings, how to process it all means you've listed everything nicely, you've copied the eu directives as standard. We are the only thing we do in the assembly regarding these settlements, mainly in undeveloped areas from Slavonia to Zagora or Priobala, like mainly numerous settlements are empty. I think that in this assembly we tribals devote more to that part of undeveloped areas and survival in these settlements of people. The tables are important, markings are important, standardisation is important, but what we're going to talk about now is when people listen to us from these settlements, mountainous areas where they don't have water supply, they have millions of problems, and we're proud of ties and departments talking about standardisation. Mr. Chicken in your neighborhood is probably all wonderful and happy, I see you speak from the bench, and no one reminds you, and you have no right, perhaps only by party card. Now, come on... now you've been staring at me when I mentioned you, but the fact that even in your neighborhoods are empty, the fact that everything lately, mainly in the last 20 days, has been committed to the war and the problems that we have, but let's not forget the infrastructure. Here's my colleague from Drnis knows I'm telling the truth, many settlements are extinct. Look at the demographic image, and you'll see what it's all about. We must not only be copyists of European regulations for these settlements, for these local committees. I am here from Sinj let's say the numerous here Glavica are the largest village in the Republic of Croatia local board in the Republic of Croatia, larger than numerous cities and may it still be dawned in this place of committee, people, people. However, we have one problem that we have forgotten these numerous settlements that have tables, which in the cataster have their borders, which are limited, but there is no water supply, no organised transport, thousands of problems. I think that with these things we would like to start dealing with, and these changes to the laws that we are changing regularly, this has not been changed long ago, but mostly some alignment with the regulations is not enough for the EU directives to survive these marked and unmarked settlements, because unfortunately we will have to discuss how to remove these features.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98766	Thank you. Mr. Dario Zurović Club of Representatives Focus and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98767	Honorable MPs and MPs. The law on settlements is generally only the tip of a dream we can tell a mess that governs us in space, spatial planning, the functioning of catastras, state property, but also very bad and sometimes very inaccurate or for individuals of precise spatial planning. Namely, when you look at the distant history of the Austro-Hungarian land books and the total cadastre of property, even the settlements are not fully decorated. In the early 1980s there were local attempts, mostly here in northern Croatia where I really belong to that northwestern area where they tried to get rid of the border between the settlements and, of course, where they belong. There have been good cases, and unfortunately there have been some arguments that eventually the former party cut off. Now let's roll the movie on 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. During that period, data synchronised between police, between catastras, between DGUs, amongst of course all land books of all institutions. You remember for sure when the local elections were that people were getting people on whom they wrote nationality unknown, but what appeared as a problem in St. Sunday, but also in the town of Samobor my neighbor, it appeared that people came into some other JLS overnight. Unfortunately, the borders between the City of Zagreb have changed, but Zagreb County has changed indirectly between some cities, such as St. Sunday and, of course, Samobor, and today, it creates problems for people. We have a technical law here that wants to define some things, but there's a whole series of problems that hasn't been solved for years and now we're going to take a turn. I went to watch a little bit of the taste that meant all this together, and I'm thinking about why someone would go to change the border of the settlement and ruin someone's way of living. The deeper you dig, then you realize that everything always comes down to two magic words, money and interest. Someone may have made a deal with someone, someone has earned something just because he accidentally entered another JLS that was just at that moment sharing incentives perhaps for agriculture or for some other kind of business activity. People have earned themselves, eaten the wolf donkeys, and today 6 houses on the Spider in Samobor are fighting to belong to the town of Samobor di objectively and belong and that is the main taste of the problem. So people fall into another settlement overnight, have problems with their home numbers, have problems getting passports, health insurance better not to talk. So their employers, or perhaps independent, independent companies, tradesmen themselves, and ultimately how they will consume it in the right way, can especially be found in a violation. And all of this together, this whole Law on settlements when you look at both the cadastre and the grant and especially spatial planning create huge problems. In fact, I have an example that half of a lake just happened to fall under the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb cleans by winter service to the Jankomir bridge, which is perfectly logical, perfectly natural and when you call for intervention in our lake in our city, man wonders because it has nothing to do with the neighboring city or better said in this case with the neighbouring county. Let us also look at the cost of living than those people who only overnight from the town of Samobor fell under the City of Zagreb, suddenly there is 18% cut, suddenly there is bigger municipal, municipal, municipal, communal compensation, you no longer belong to a Samobor communal but you go under Zagreb's purity which rarely, when it comes to that area at all, means you have a whole series of problems. I also found a whole series of problems with me that man is suddenly on the first floor in one village, and the second day his ground floor and his son is in another settlement, so two different settlements in the same house and not just here with us, but somewhere else. There's also space in spatial planning, and that's where I have to touch the DGU. Namely, the Zagreb County County County County Department for Spatial Planning has given its suggestion that it is mandatory to take care of spatial plans. What am I saying that for? Imagine a situation like this, DGU makes some kind of technical preparation and technical change and only informs you when you start to change spatial plans and quite accidentally changes the boundaries of a settlement, the percentages are changed automatically, the percentages of construction depending on the county, depending on the region, some county may have up to 70% that you can build and maybe this very village has come to this edge, expand the settlement, mathematics plays its part, it can happen automatically what is mentioned quite often in public space, but also in this assembly, bargaining. And this is precisely why I can say very directly that there have been some troubles in the area of Samobor, but unfortunately also in the area of the City of Zagreb. At the end of the day, you know how that ended up being solved, people couldn't solve their addresses, they sent letters to HS, especially here's the Macarun family from the Spiders, I know they took the whole petition. I also had the people of Rakiti watching their books like this, so they used to get permits in one principle, later on another, the catastre sings its song, the grantine sings its song. You have huge problems that even municipalities have when they want to enter the most common road in a village. You happen to have a situation where people buy construction land, hire a geodeta, geodeta finely draws everything according to the rules of the profession, all right and then come for verifications and by conditions in municipalities and in cities or sometimes and in county offices and then people wonder and say listen it's not per spatial plan, but people say it doesn't matter we get a positive opinion in the catastro. In other words, DGU, spatial planning, cadastre, real estate change, and even this address regarding the settlement is all in the package should be looked at and the package should address the problems that people have on the ground. Unfortunately, the epilogue is that today we are fighting again about some names of squares by people who have long since left the globe of the Earth and the Republic of Croatia instead of dealing with what will keep people in the future in 2045. here in Croatia. In the end, some of these people from the Spider moved out in 2045. Their children and their grandkids will only laugh at our problems where we will likely have a fight in the assembly again about what is called a square, and what people have suddenly higher costs, which do not solve their own property and what in general these settlements literally and their borders and these areas and home numbers change on their finger, the thumb method, they will all laugh and it is a sad future that will welcome us. I don't want anyone standing here for 10 years and saying, listen, we've got 400,000 more people gone, and this is exactly the kind of approach and this is the kind of to God-given technical solutions that aren't complete people will still be leaving us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98768	You, too. Mr. Davor Dretar in front of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98769	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you again as I have stated in the opening line that we have in some way adjusted this second reading or the final appearance of this law because we are in the first reading in the mentioned article. 7. we have quoted "The Committee of St. 3 will give an opinion within 30 days", and here we now have a legal text in the second reading which reads "The Commission is obliged to give an opinion within 30 days of the date of receipt of the proposal for the name of the settlement, street or square" and, of course, in the case of a difficult access to the building needed for the analysis of the proposal, there is 5. which says that the commission is obliged to give the same decision or opinion within 60 days from the date of receipt of the proposal for the name of the settlement, street or square. I have looked at a little of the composition of the Committee on Standardization of Geographical Names, all the provisions of the Doctors of Science, respected people in all their fields of science, so there we have geodesy, foreign affairs, cultural heritage, science, education, Croatian language, abbreviations, cartography, geography, lexiography, history can be freely told by a multidisciplinary commission. However, again, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have not properly installed them in this law or that we did not foresee the possible consequences of not making a decision or that they simply give their opinion within 30 days or 60 days. That's where the legislator remained completely unspeakable. We see in chapter 7 of the infringement clause. 16 has two paragraphs, one speaks of a fine of 3000-5,000 kuna for the owner or manager of the building if the building has not been placed in accordance with the decision to determine the house number of the building or if the building board is not set up within 60 days of receiving the solution either. So I think if we could determine the fines for the owners or the building managers, that we could put in this law without a problem and that is, in Art. 16th and 3rd, where we could say, however, that, in a certain way, the Commission would be sanctioned in the event that, within the legal deadlines of 30 days or 60 days, no solution would be reached, or it would not give its opinion. We have also seen this in the explanation of the motions, therefore, related to the proposal of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, which is proposed to amend the Article. 7 of the bill, among other things in a way to regulate the situation in the event that the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give an opinion within the time limits of the prescribed Article. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Law states that the proposal is not accepted. Here's an explanation, for the reason it's a provision. The 7th paragraphs 4 and 5, which I mentioned earlier and the final draft of the law, clearly states that it is duty to give the requested opinion within the time limits prescribed by the final draft of the law and it is assessed that it is not justified to regulate the situation in which that commission would be presumed not to comply with the law of the prescribed obligation within the specified deadlines. So I think that the contradiction here is not particularly difficult to see, we can compare it with many laws, let's say the Law on Road Safety, which has extremely wide, but not infractions, there are 200, 300, and there, for example, in some articles or articles of those infringements, it clearly states that if a person who committed a certain offence, let's say that the excess of speed in a populated place punishes the team and the amount that he has to pay within 10,15,30 or 60 days after which the following legal steps occur, of course, which can be taken by the competent institutions towards that person by legal or physical means. We do not have it here and yet we express our dissatisfaction with it and again and again and again, as we have many times wondered whether we are the supreme or supreme legislative body in this country or whether we will re-legal acts, rules that pass the control of HS regulate this, but also a number of other issues. But in any case, you know one of the oldest political sayings, when you don't want to solve something, you set up a commission. We have seen here already in interventions and reactions to a series of replicas of respected Secretary Uhlir that the automatically antagonists of those who worship the image and the work of some former politicians, some former marshals, or question the need for citizens of all those living in any part of this country to in some way in places, squares, streets or wherever they are and ultimately honor their settlements what they consider to represent their values in the best possible way. It is unfortunately a debate as old as the Croatian state, and unfortunately a few decades older than the Croatian state and it is really time to get rid of it once and for all, regardless of this law, regardless of all the legal provisions, the fact is that we should start dealing with real things, raise this country to a quality level in which we will live quality with which plate on the corner of the street or square may not be too important, but HS absolutely needs to be asked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98770	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Štromar, Club of Representatives, not a pardon before Mr. Marin Piletić, Club of Representatives of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98771	... geodetic administrations, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. [[Last-on speaker]] The relevant law dates back to 1988, not only did we change the whole series of legal and sublegal acts as we could hear in the opening presentation but also the state, the political structure, and even 10 convocations of HS, and the fact is that this new law will refer to 556 JLS, 3752 local self-government, slightly less catastrian municipalities and 6757 settlements in the Republic of Croatia. Art. The 7th century 3 of this proposed law states that all street and square names as well as settlements must be harmonised according to the previous opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the standardisation of geographical names. The State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster of 2018 stipulates that the activities of standardisation of geographical names are carried out by public legal authorities in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names, which appoints and resolves the solution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have since 2019. We have this committee, and it is not designed not to solve problems, to complicate them, but to just implement the standardisation of geographical names, and we therefore build on this law the recommendations of this committee as an inevitable body in the adoption of this law, as well as the appointment of settlements, streets and squares. The Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names adopted recommendations for standardisation of the same, designation of settlements, streets and squares, as well as recommendations related to the writing and use of geographical names from foreign countries. In this recommendation, colleagues and colleagues stand, geographical names identify and reflect culture, historical heritage and topography of one area, nation and international community, the consistency of their application is the basis for effective communication and socio-economic development. Because of their development over the centuries, geographical names reflect the historical and cultural development of a particular area and form its cultural heritage. Geographical names not only identify geographical features and objects but also individuals, groups, nations or Croatian peoples. It should therefore be recalled that this is an extremely important law that will guide the development of Croatia in the future... , preserve the identity of Croatian people, culture and national history, and care for more than 120,000 geographical names in the register of geographical names of DGU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the unstandardized and unilateral approach to the issue of the appointment of settlements, streets and squares in the Republic of Croatia, the final form of names that came into official use has often not been processed and considered by all relevant experts, such as geographers, linguists, geodetics, geologists, and the names that have been adopted were not uniform, nor in any way standardised in the field of the Republic of Croatia. The result of such an unstandardized approach is an inconsistencies, inconsistencies and unequal application of the name of settlements, streets and squares both in the public administration system and in the media, popular journals, scientific texts, school textbooks, manuals, and in lexicographic and cartographic works. There are many examples of unstandard names and some illogicalities. At the first reading of the law, I mentioned that there were such standardisations of the commission might not have happened if the titles of the 1993 county had a narrow definition that it was Dalmatian, only Split-Dalmatia when other Dalmatian counties were part of the Republic of Croatia. We would not have had the case if in Slavonia only Požega-Slavon County and other counties were therefore Slavonian in the continental part of Croatia. If there were standardisation and consulting with this committee, it wouldn't have happened to us if we had, well remember and listen, the Street of Victims of the Homeland War. That's inadmissible. Similarly, in this non-standardization we have a whole series of Croatian islands, one of the most beautiful pearls, so the Republic of Croatia that have multiple names, the names are not standardised and are not clear in applying which name is the right one, although everyone should be correct. It is precisely this bill that will remove the above-mentioned shortcomings, and that there will be strong standardisation on appointment and settlements, such as streets and squares. Each appointment will have, in accordance with this law and the expert digital background from the register of spatial units of a single DGU base. Therefore, a change of name or a new appointment will be registered on digital platforms, which will greatly help emergency services such as firemen, HGSS, emergency medical aids or police. That is exactly what this law means, as well as all other reform laws and acts proposed by the government by the HS. After this point in the Law on settlements, the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real estate is also set up, and then, in order to standardise the names and their application, the Law on settlements is ensured. The State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster abolishes and provides for the abolition of parafiscal burdens in accordance with the 2030 Action Plan to reduce non-taxed and parafiscal yields, and further facilitates the digitisation of business, and when we add a recently adopted multi-annual programme of cadastral measurements to measure, restore the cadastre and establish a new land book for more than 10% of the construction surfaces of the Republic of Croatia, with more than 80% of the economic activities of the government's intensities being more than clear. The Law on COMASATION that we have recently discussed brings about the possibility of rounding up agricultural land also to synchronise spatial data, and a new Law on Land Books is being prepared. With all this we heard in the previous debate it is very important to align the borders of the catastrian municipalities and settlements. This is exactly what the State Geodetic Authority is doing and implementing the process of harmonising the borders of the Catastrian municipalities, which is more than ever, I repeat, will bring and contribute to the order and arrangement of the territory in the Republic of Croatia, and is also a prerequisite to address the situation with the borders of the settlement and units of local self-government. Net of his colleagues mentioned that changing borders happens when there's money and interest. He forgot to mention logic. We have the most normal examples where individual settlements or parts of the settlement are attached to the second unit of local self-government because it requires logic. The case of a part of the village of Piljenica, which remained trapped between two settlements in the town of Kutina, belonged to the territorial municipality of Lipovljani today by agreement between two units of local self-government in its natural surroundings belongs to a unit of local self-government called the town of Kutina. All of these reforms are fully digitised in the registers of spatial registers, which will ensure that the situation is settled in space. A settled state in space and spatial records means a neat and orderly country, a quality public administration, higher land prices, easier attracting investors and investments. The HDZ representative's club, with congratulations, will support this bill in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98772	Thank you. And now it's up to Mr. Predrag Štromar, the club of representatives of HSU, HNS and independent representatives, has not changed in the meantime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, nothing has changed with us and we are still stable and when we talk about the Laws on settlements in the name of the HNS Club, HSU and the Independents, I fully support this bill and I consider it a positive step in the process of recording space and its more quality and responsible management. In view of the thirty-year period during which the law has not been amended, and in the meantime a whole series of other laws affecting the area covered by this law have finally changed the social order, amendments to this law were necessary. And speaking of the process of naming streets and squares, which today was a lot of topics I would like to remind myself of may even suggest that we consider some future appointments of streets and squares. The HNS initiative since last year when our members of Women's Day took action symbolically renaming streets and squares with names of well-known and well-deserved women from the Croatian past. The aim of this action was to point out the problem of ignoring women's role and success through history, which is unfortunately also evident at this symbolic level of the designation of public surfaces. Maybe now's the time to think about that component of this subject. Namely, publicly available data suggests that Croatian cities in the names of their streets almost completely abandon the history of women. Namely, only 2.37% of all Croatian public areas bear a female name, 5 out of 8 largest cities have less than 2% of the streets named after women, and 11 cities have no street named after women. And many women who have played an important role throughout history have achieved the successes that are part of our identity. Nobody talked about it today, just the history of celebrities or the positive or the negative. Unnamed public areas of squares, streets and parks, the institution shows worthy women that we are still in the 21st century with all the efforts still male society and that history belongs to men. It can't be like that. There are many women who deserve to be called street and square by their name and thus keep in collective memory their contribution to the formation of the society in which we live today. It is difficult to change the existing names, but I appeal that in the future, when the appointment of new streets and squares is being considered, the list of women responsible is being taken into account, because Croatian society has them and we must be proud of that and we must thank them for it. So if we want to be grateful, let's make it possible for them not to stay in history but to be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98774	Thank you. And now we're moving on to individual debates, first Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is the first individual debate under the new rules, and I must express my regret that we still have to come for a pay phone, and we can't leave the post. I think it should be corrected, too. Namely, in past council meetings, it was a custom. As regards the proposed laws on settlements, I said a lot on behalf of the club, I believe that this is primarily political, not technical law, and that it is necessary to approach it as such to remove the burden of political decisions from the resolution ministry and yet the Ministry of Civil Engineering is one narrow expert resolution body and that political discussions should be conducted at the level of political parties and "political" ministries such as the Ministry of Justice and Justice, etc. Secondly, I would like to avoid the doubts that have arisen here not only of one but also of the expectations of the other that the Government's Committee with the standardisation of geographical names, if I have said well, would turn into a kind of historical and ethical judiciary, because it would primarily be out of their constitutional role, would be necessary and unnecessary because of the appropriateness of the names of some geographical and others, it can certainly be decided by the Constitutional Court, but not by the Government's commission. It could decide if the Constitution gave him such authority. For example, at the Ministry of Administration, I met with two cases, one case being that for 30 years a settlement in Virovitica-Podravska County in its composition had a street on 10 April and, in accordance with the powers of the right of supervision, I put off the power to determine why the street was so called. Afterwards, the government referred this to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court made a decision for a year on this. And the second was the case of appointments per person, it was Mila Budak where, until the Constitutional Court's decision was taken in this first case, I was not sure whether, with the same argument, the courts would react to a date that associated with a particular event and on the other hand whether this criterion of the Constitutional Court would apply to persons. It was only later when the Constitutional Court decision came that I was no longer a minister of reasons that it could be concluded that a similar argument would be in that case, so it would be good to have the current set in the Ministry of Administration and the Justice based on that argument of the Constitutional Court reacting to the case. And of course, the question of valorising the historical roles of certain persons is at all, and that is certainly not the responsibility of the Ministry of Construction with respect. I'm sure you wouldn't want to do it either, so why do we have to impose it on you further? So in distant history, for example, in the United States, only here is the current issue of the markings of prominent Southern military leaders, or the forces of the Confederation, because what they call African-Americans have concluded is that they are being discriminated against, if I've simplified a little bit, but that's what this is about. Thus, even much more developed countries with a longer democratic tradition are not immune to reviewing some of their values and contextualising what is happening in relation to new events, so even in the United States. Is Croatia mature enough as democracy to put it on that level? I don't know, but it will develop if these retrograde processes don't exist, and it will depend on which party has a majority, and then according to its political programme, ideology, worldview, values they think are right, and then the Constitutional Court will see whether they have come out of the framework of freedom of expression and what the Constitution has set as a framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98776	Mr. Zekanovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98777	Dear colleague Bauk. Here's what's interesting is that it's Art. 3. 7. you disputed, and perhaps it would actually suit you if you had any ambition to be in power at all. But obviously you're destined for opposition, so that article doesn't suit you at all. I'm critical of that article because I'm afraid of who's going to be sitting in the commission so it might even be inclined to your option so it can allow something that I wouldn't allow. But here's a question for you specifically and colleague Nadj has been quite revitalized here even commended by a war criminal, and his name is Joseph, his last name is Broz, you are now mentioning Mila Budak, but here I would like to hear your attitude about this very man, Joseph Broz, meaning who, according to all international bodies, is one of the greatest criminals in general whether or not your position on him can be called by him Some kind of square or street or something? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98779	If I were a councilman in a local self-government unit who decides to come by that proposal, I'd vote for it. Here's the explanation now more or less familiar so there's no need to further analyze these things, that's it. As for predetermination for opposition, and look in some cities and municipalities my party is in power in some in opposition, we are sometimes in power more often in opposition, but nothing is forever so neither opposition nor party, only Hajduk is eternal and Croatia I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98780	Mr. Miletić, Mr. Chicken. I have no luck with your names today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98781	It's all right, I'm used to Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, you mentioned in your statement that the Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names should be a political body or that it will make political decisions as the particular name of the street and settlements should be called. The purpose, therefore, is to make recommendations in accordance with Article 1(1). 7th century 3. The commission should therefore be given, just a little bit to read to you, the consequences of the absence of recommendations for the standardisation of geographical names is a lack of criteria for writing and using geographical names, and the result is inconsistent application. So, the commission will not make any political decisions, nor will it impose on the representative body of JLS which the name of a particular street or square should bear, but that it will standardise as you have the case many cities suggest the Street of Blessed Alojzi Stepinac, some cardinals, so to standardize names.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98782	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98783	Thank you. I've actually said that these are the expectations of some and the concerns of some, I haven't, I haven't expressed my view of it, I'm even in the debate and I said that what would be standardisation is exactly what you are, which you said just mentioned another historical person. After all, the name of the city of Vukovar or Vukovar Street should be called, so I realized it was a commission, and now you've calmed me down that I don't have to write the amendment to specify it, so you saved me some time on the computer, and if the commission would use it and act the opposite of yours then I expect us to go to the press together and condemn it here, here, okay, for the record, my colleague raised his thumb up. And what happens is, I'm gonna use 15 seconds until the vice president stops me saying that if Mr. Zekanovic is on board, he's gonna be in the same position as I am about what you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98784	Thank you very much. You're free to go. Mr. Predrag Stromar now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this Final Proposal of the Law on settlements for several very important reasons for me. First of all, the fact that the applicable law was passed in 1988. It speaks sufficiently of the necessity of its amendment, given that in the meantime it has changed a whole series of laws defining the areas to which this law applies. It is also one of the laws that should achieve positive effects in recording space and its more quality and responsible management. This is precisely the space of one of the most valuable resources we have, and according to this, the spatial policy or space management policy requires constant engagement from the legislative and executive authorities, of course not including the profession and the public, through the adoption and implementation of more quality legal solutions, all with the ultimate objective of preserving, improving and efficient and responsible management of space, because it is the space that defines both economic and social, ultimately and demographic development of the country. Therefore, quality management of it is necessary if we want to achieve a uniform regional development, growth of the economy and a greater quality of life. And while one will say that this is political law, the other if it were technical, I would point out that it is primarily about life law. Its changes, in particular those relating to the horizontal harmonisation of legislation, and the definition of a better quality way of establishing the name of the settlement when changing and when issuing, the separation of individual settlements from the current settlement, and the change of borders between existing settlements, as well as the appointment of streets and squares and assignments of domestic numbers, are going in the direction of standardisation. This is what we need in the forest of regulations and inconsistencies that governs when we talk about spatial planning and space management. I welcome the fact that the proposer has implemented one of the proposals from the first reading, which is to shorten the deadline for adopting the Regulation on how to mark the name of the settlement, the streets and squares from 12 to 6 months, which is going towards faster and more effective law enforcement, and we hope it will be sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98786	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98787	Of course, all that interests is what my colleague Bauk was talking about, and that is the famous Committee for Standardization of Names. As someone who has graduated from croatistics, I know what the standardisation of names should be, but I am not sure since it is not precise because it is the only scope of the work that this commission is going to be doing, so do you expect that after these changes of laws, changes in the names of the settlement will occur or that some things will change in Croatia, and if you expect such changes to occur, what do you think might be the subject of a change of name in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98788	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98789	... , but it was said extremely much about this and parliamentary representatives, but the promoter also said what standardisation means. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I do not believe that there will be major changes, but the commission will work on some new proposal to check whether or not the proposal is standard, as one colleague said there that one island has its name in 6 cities and 4 municipalities and everywhere else this street is called or a concrete example of the Street of Vukovar or Vukovar Street. That should be the mission of this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98790	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98791	Dear fellow, some of the topics are demarcation lines in politics, so there may also be a demarcation line of names in some streets, squares, cities, settlements. So here's a question for you just to see where you are, so that you, as a member of the local self-government representative body, would vote for example. on the suggestion that a square or street is called Marshall Joseph Broz Tito and another proposal here is to name something called Alojzi Stepinca, your position, here is my colleague, Bauk, quite explicit, to hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98792	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98793	Well, here's one question that will be if it is, but I would suggest some names that some streets or some squares have some names and would primarily fight to be Savka Dabcevic Kučar Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98794	Mr. Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98795	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Stromar, we come from the same constituency, so let me ask you a little here and check it out. When we come to Varazdin there from the Princess we enter that beautiful broad beautiful road, on the right we have something to see and there we have something to see for many years. So here we go again to play some imaginary participation in local self-government units in this town of Varazdin. Shall we argue that this approach to the city of Varazdin is called the approach of the barbaric trash, what do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98796	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98797	Look, the question is completely in place. We could even wonder if we're going to give the home number to that space. That's what we talked about. It seems that according to this law, when we declare that we will be able to give it because it's an economical rather actual space and there should be some economic buildings. I expect that in two years, there will be no need to talk about it at all, because that space will be an economic area where it will work and earn money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98798	Thank you very much. You're done for now. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will now have his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98799	Dear Vice President, I have nothing against you personally, Mr. Stromar, but here is clear to see where the political stand is, so your position is actually expected here, I would say. So, inexplicable about these topics, such as And a colleague from MOST, you're actually in some kind of political vacuum on the left, or on the right, you don't really know where you said you were, and you don't even know where you were from the MOST. But when we talk about this problem, here's the director of the state geodetic administration if I'm not mistaken, so Mr. Shantek, you're it's under the mask I don't recognize you. Well, here's when I was speaking in the line of honor to the Secretary of State, I pointed out one problem, and now I'm going to be concrete somehow allowing me time. In Sibenik 10 years ago, my initiative changed the name of the capital square called Poljana Marshal Tito, today it is only called Poljana God thank you, and since then on houses in that square, there are not all a few houses, all a few numbers are not changed tiles with home numbers, it still writes Poljana Marshal Tito. And here I am glad that I have finally come, that this bill has come into my hands and here says home numbers at the request of an interested person or by official duty determines the place, locals must have that tipfler competent or local competent catastrian office according to this law and regulation which determines the state measure and catastra of real estate. In Sibenik catastre for 10 years has done nothing about it, I am now in charge, so here I encourage you to come into the office, and here I am asking for it to get into the record and in writing, a written notice about your procedure to take, that, that you encourage the Sibenik office, even this furniture is not even guilty because it was before their time means they found this state so they didn't even know, that they were engaged in this matter or that the owner or manager of the building, all of it was a couple of buildings, forced to finally change those tiles, if there is no criminal provision 3 to 5,000 kuna if they didn't do so within 60 days. Here's one small task when you come after this debate, it'll almost end up in the office, so please do as I asked. As far as this famous committee is concerned, I'm okay with it. I'm fine with that. Let it be a commission, and here I would like to see it now, and I even hope that the current government would not allow some madness like the return of some markets to some criminals like Joseph Broz Tito. Of course, there was quite a fair and honest colleague Bauk who would vote for such a proposal, but here I will say live this commission and hope it will be firm in his decisions if they are of course on this trail as I think, though, I will say anything possible, but I still believe that it will turn out the way I believe. I was sorry here, it's hard to hear some colleagues, for example. counterpart Petrov mentioned the decisions on Cyrillic, Cyrillic plates and "for home ready" put it in the same context. That's actually what shouldn't be said, so if someone from the SDP had made it I would accept it, and like this when someone is working from the center it's, it's pretty bad, it sounds bad. And at the end of that replica I set up for you. The settlement, the definition of the settlement. Could the settlement be without a population? And at what point does the settlement stop being a settlement? Shutting down the settlement, not defined by this bill, I've read the whole bill, so I think it should be included. At which point the settlement ceases to be a settlement and here it is a little undefined, a little bit here and into this problem because we have a number of settlements that were once completely shut down, abandoned, no residents, and I don't think we should call them settlements anymore. Take a walk around Dalmatia Zagora and in Lika, there are many such settlements. Unfortunately, we've recently had them in Slavonia. I hope that trend will stop, but here's until we stop, let's define the moment the law ceases to exist, pardon the law, the settlements. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98800	Mr. Shimičević, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98801	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, this is where the law of 33 years ran its course. So the question arises whether this law was so good or whether it wasn't really that important? And now we are in a position to change this law and I believe that this law should answer all these questions and that indeed this law should bring order in space. What do you think this law will respond to these challenges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98802	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98803	Thanks, buddy. So this law will have my support. I don't think the law is bad. Here's with these couple of some kind of remarks that aren't so important, but here's why it's a debate to point out something. Every law has its faults, its shortcomings, not a single law is perfect. But here's what we're doing. We're the one who's going through the debate. We're going to notice what's wrong with the law. It's not right. In any case, this is one contribution, and I think it's okay to pass this law, and it's personal to me, and I'm happy with the meaning of paragraph three in Article seven. So here I am glad that there is this commission that will in the beginning prevent some crazy ideas, such as Mayor Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98804	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98805	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the honourable representative, my colleague Zekanovic. You mentioned this one world-class, moral or any other line of demarcation here in Croatian politics. But to you, like me, politicians who think alike, I'd like to ask a commentary to look a little west where the Walke movement is getting more and more pronounced, and the other day, reading a foreign newspaper, I found an extraordinary commentary of their actions. By polarizing progress, therefore progress should in itself be homogenizing or all around it should be consensual but here's what they found and it's consistent with this topic. The Walke Movement in America requires a ban, namely the removal of street names, squares, and the taking down of monuments to third American President Thomas Jefferson, who was the author of the Declaration of Independence allegedly also a slave. So, I'd like to ask your comment on this brilliant oxymoron polarizing progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98806	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98807	You see, the world is designed to have two sexes, to have black and white, to have good and evil in the end, so someone cheers for one club, another cheers for another club. So it's normal in the world, so I wouldn't take gender as a problem, but I'd take gender as one advantage. And as for this situation in America and this tendency to actually get one censorship out of control. And here I am not for it. We had an example of a Meštrovic Indian they wanted removed, I don't know if they eventually removed it or not, Columbus was being removed wherever they came from, etc. So, we have one situation that because of that so-called so-called. Political correctness today, especially in America, is being removed from what should not be removed. So, half that but censorship in this sense as we have in America today, here I am not for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98808	I see you've solved this problem. Mr. Stromar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98809	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, my colleague Bauk said we're going back to our old subjects, our entrenched subjects of Ustasha, the Partisans. He started that topic today, you continue in one technical, quality, good law. And I mean, personally, I don't think that's good, and as far as my commitment is concerned, when you ask me, I've fully defined myself for one person who in our recent history has spoken about how Croatia should be a civil state, a state for everyone to live in quality and well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98810	You're a fellow Scrooge...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98811	Comrade Zekanovic, you can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98812	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Štromar, you have in one wise way as an experienced politician responded to one, you have spoken nicely of Savka Dabčević Kučar and I believe we all have a good opinion and a uniform opinion, I will agree with you. But there are some demarcation lines in politics, topics shared by society. For example, it's a protection of life from conception, that's what you said to Ustasha and Partisans. I'm not going to talk about it. I mean, is Tito a criminal or is he some kind of idol and hero? He's a criminal to me. We have a view of vaccination, someone like me will boldly invite people to split, others will be silent as they watered, going to take political points at it. We may be like-minded here, for example. So we have issues that divide society, that divide society. I was against Istanbul, some were for Istanbul. As far as Joseph Broz is concerned, I will dare say on different sides no matter how much we agree on Savka Dabčević Kučar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98813	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98814	Since you are more recently very close to the current government, you may have some information that I do not have. But I'd like to know where you came up with the idea that the Standardisation Committee would decide whether to return to Marshal Tito's Square? He may eventually decide whether Tito’s square or Joseph Broz Square will return. And I would also be interested in your experience with HDZ authorities, including all the initiatives you've been trying to run around the Istanbul Convention, and yet where, suddenly, such a great trust with the authorities you've been criticising so recently, that, in the case of a commission, even for language standardisation, they'll make decisions that will be in line with your opinion this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98815	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98816	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Selak-Raspadic, if you have listened to me from the beginning, I have expressed hope, but also a small fear of how this commission will be set up tomorrow. As far as my proximity to HDZ is concerned, I'm sitting right here, and I'm being moved here, and I'm sitting right next to my colleagues between IDS and HDZ. As for information and my closeness with HDZ, perhaps you from WE CAN ask your colleagues in the Zagreb Assembly, in Zagreb, what they intend to do about Marshal Tito, these are your colleagues, may also the MOSTs and then you will have information and we may be able to react sooner. So things are extremely clear. You're the one who has the information, you're the one that hugs with the WE-ins because you're the same party for the pay phone, so here's why I think you're headed to the wrong place, the wrong question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98817	You're free to go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98818	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. I would just like to express my compassion and regret that no one in the opposition nor the ruling in spite of all his attempts, efforts, open and unequivocal flirting is willing to embrace. I hope it changes, here I can offer a friendly hug not to feel so lonely in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98819	Thank you very much. It was a replica. It's a warning. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98820	Dear colleague Rasdic. I was the first one to offer you a hug if you forgot, if you invite people to the vaccination. You didn't invite people to vaccination, so you don't have that hug from me. But if you want to hug me just like that, is it hard for you because you're missing us We can maybe not hug you right now, I'm here to hug you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98821	Thank you very much. I don't know how many colleagues Nino Rasdic will agree with, but you have a warning. Mr. Miro Bulj is on his way now. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Mr. Predrag Štromar concluded on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives as before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98822	Still. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the view of the 30th annual period in which the law has not been amended, and in the meantime a whole series of other laws affecting the areas covered by this law have really been necessary, and this has been seen in the debate by most parliamentary MPs who discussed the need to change the law and in this direction exactly as the Proposer has proposed. I believe this law will achieve its objectives, but I also believe that it should not be stopped. It is not necessary to wait as it has waited 30 and more years for something to change already to continue constantly to improve the management and planning processes of space, to listen to both the profession and the public, and accordingly to propose and bring legal changes and solutions when needed, not to wait for tens of years again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98823	Thank you, too. Another final on behalf of the Mosta fellow Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98824	Of course we agree that the law should be amended and brought into line with current regulations, but I think that this topic deserves a deeper consideration, given that it is also a political issue that is rarely becoming ideological. When we talk about the Standardisation Committee the title given the reasons we could have heard here as arguments I must admit that they are not equally convincing. If something is a question of standard language, it cannot in any way affect the name itself unless it wants to be brought into line with the standard language, which is not necessarily a positive practice given all the different dictions that Croatia has and which are its and cultural language wealth. If, however, this commission is going to edit something like what we could hear here, which seems neutral, but only at first glance without a closer look, let's say that we have five different, and similar street names that extend in one place or in one city, etc. Then we're not talking about a title standardisation committee anymore, but we're talking about some kind of committee maybe to type a name where you should limit the number of names that can be worn in one city one street, so you don't keep repeating the same names or maybe in one wider area regarding the county, but these are all very serious issues. And if it's going to be limited then again someone will be brought into a more unfavourable position in view of his wishes and given the question of who has priority at all and whether or not we're going to change the circumstances we've acquired, where we have really interesting examples where, for example, in Ciovo you have in the County of the Lower and the County of Upper Street of King Zvonimir, you're looking if you're actually a tourist who you want to come to when they're both on the same island because it's never been systematically thought about. But if we really want to do this systematically and seriously, then we can't just talk about the Committee on Language Standardisation, which will be a cover name for different types of initiatives and change of decision on how names within the places of individual markets or streets will look but we need to talk realistically about what is bothering us on the ground about a commission that will deal with the typing of a name, a commission that may be engaged and restricting the possibility of using certain names. Under the Croatian language standard, it is not all possible or necessary and it is necessary to standardise the name because it is our cultural wealth, the diversity of the diction, and also one creativity in the award of the name of individual streets and squares, given the history of places and the will of citizens to manifest it in such a way. I would also like to remind myself that it really does not matter how the names of the streets or the names of the squares are called and that throughout history we have witnessed various initiatives and renamings that have always come after major social coups. One of the interesting examples on this trail was the merger of the streets of the four streets of Lower Town, these were Vukotinović, Hatzova, Gerjavićev and Trenkova so-called. The green wave and the formation of a street called Street on 8 May as the date of the entry of Yugoslav military units into Zagreb and the release from the Ustasha regime or for some start of new totalitarianism. Thus, it certainly wanted to influence collective history because it is no matter where you are going to call the most frequent street in a certain way and thus quietly from birth to someone to suggest that it is a place marked by his childhood and as such an important and unchangeable entry into his human history. The question that always arises, when we will stop, will we stop with this in view of the recent trends in the City of Zagreb which we personally, and also the Mosta Club, oppose the return of Marshal Tito's Square. However, it will not be decided by the Committee for Standardisation but rather by normal democratic processes within the framework of legislative opportunities on which the acquis will, hopefully, be given at least in some form of referendum and give citizens of the City of Zagreb. When will it be gone? The question arises when we will affirm ourselves and realize ourselves as a nation and when we will finally achieve our own identity then more of this type of violence often carried out over the streets and squares will no longer have to be seen, nor will it be necessary. It takes a lot more maturity, and I hope that we will have it in the future and that we will not agree to such retrograde tendencies as are announced even in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98825	Thank you. Mr. Marin Piletic will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98826	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names has many tasks, but certainly not names that the unit of local self-government proposes to standardise in the standard Croatian language. Standardisation of the name refers, therefore, to standardisation in writing and application, by no means in translation or approximation of certain names to the Croatian standard language. We could hear a lot in today's debate that this commission would be politically that it would affect the decisions of representative bodies on street names, squares. Not at all. The Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names was appointed in March 2019 and together with the Director of the State Geodetics Administration Mr. Shanteka members of the committees are representatives of the Institute for Croatian Language and Linguistics, representatives of the Croatian Institute for History, representatives of the Croatian Cartographic Society, Croatian Geographical Society, the Lexicographic Institute of Miroslav Krleža and representatives of universities dealing with education and research in the field of geographical names, as well as representatives of other universities that deal with the same. Therefore, the Standardisation Committee does not aim to standardise certain names if they are an integral part of certain localisms or dialectalisms, it is not intended to affect politically which representative body will appoint an integral part of its settlement but to standardise the application of those same names. And the commission says if you propose names to the dialect, or use localism, you provide an explanation and an explanation that both in this standardisation and in the application and therefore recording of digital spatial plans, the name of the street or square can be properly written. So today we are before the end of the debate of the Law on settlements, which is the main goal of enabling the Croatian state to be a country in terms of spatial plans and registers of spatial units. That these all tendencies by the government and the State Geodetic Administration are heading towards standardisation and digitisation. That we do not have cases of a single settlement being divided into two catastrian municipalities, so we also have two units of local self-government as we have a case of Borovac settlement in Sisak-Moslavina County. That we don't have a case of so few strange street names, the street of victims of the Homeland War, that we have digital bases and that all the processes we're doing on property legal matters can be solved by one click, not walking from office to office, or looking for catastrian or land-based data. This Law on settlements goes towards standardisation of everything that digitisation and standardisation of the use of the street and squares and settlements and thus no political connotations related to this commission that has been working since 2019 have made absolutely no boredom political decision or banned anyone from naming the street or square as the representative body has decided. But that in the forest of these geographical names, and I repeat, we have more than 120,000 in the Register of Geographical Names, which has also been developed by the State Geodesy Administration, we are making it easier to reach and transfer the data into a digital system, this is the purpose of this law and, as well as a whole series of laws that are now following, the multi-annual programme of cadastrian measurements, the Law on Cooperation and all other reform acts that this government has proposed for Croatia to be a neat, orderly, available country to investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98827	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. It is now up to you: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 261 this means working on an emergency procedure that unites first and second readings. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian People, Assembly. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. The proposer's representative wishes to give an additional explanation, State Secretary at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Administration Mr. Zeljko Uhlir wishes to speak, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98837	The Honored Chairman of HS, honourable MPs, is ahead of us with a draft draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Measurement and Catastro with a final draft of the law. The relevant Act on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster regulates the state dimension of the property catalogue, the infrastructure catalogue, the register of buildings, the register of spatial units, the register of geographical names, the jurisdiction of those transactions, as well as their performance. That law also provides for the payment of administrative fees and the actual costs of the use of data and documentation from the official records of DGU. However, by means of an action plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties 2020. The DGU is responsible for the implementation of certain measures under that action plan and, for that purpose, it is necessary to amend the applicable State Measurement Act and the real estate cataster. The draft law therefore implements the measures provided for in the action plan and in such a way as to prescribe the suspension of the collection of most of the actual costs of the use of data for the issue of excerpts, transcriptions, confirmations and copies of state measurement documentation, the cadastra of real estate, the infrastructure, the register of buildings, the register of spatial units, the register of Croatian names, the achievement of insights, and certain behaviours required by the parties, as well as the payment of administrative fees. As this draft draft law implements the measures set out in the action plan adopted in accordance with the recommendations of the EU Council for the Republic of Croatia under the European Semester, and is one of the measures for which Croatia has undertaken to join the ERM 2 and the Banking Union, and that the deadline for implementing the ERM 2 entry measures is the system at the end of March 2022. It is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Meanwhile, on committees, an amendment has been tabled on the Legislative Committee, two amendments that are to be adopted on this occasion. That would be, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98838	Mr. Kujundzic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98839	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the current law is over 3 years old. in application and may you have, in general, collected experiences of positive solutions or parts that should be changed, not now, but surely in the time ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98840	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98841	Thank you very much. So the amendments to the current law are done continuously and these changes are urgent and rapid because of this deadline that we have, but the law will change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98842	- Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98843	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the first question of why we've waited so long, now we're on the hook, at the end of the 3rd month, this should be brought in, and the action plan is since 7th month 2020, that's the first thing. And another thing, here in Art. 1 is said in Article 5 for the implementation of certain technical actions at the request of the parties, the party shall pay the actual costs and this will go according to the rules laid down by the Director. I've talked to the presidents of the profession a little bit, they still don't know exactly what it's going to be, so there's a rule waiting, but something in principle would be that when an officer has to search the archives to give information about not knowing the identification of the history of changes on cadastrian particles, so can you tell the Croatian citizen what these technical actions would apply to here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98844	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98845	Thank you very much. So in the first part, the question was why did you wait so long with these changes. Well, I was just a moment ago answering the question whether to follow the current law, and it will also be changed more in detail by the fact that it has already been seen to have additional arrangements. However, given these deadlines, the emergency procedure is now under way, and the amendments to the law will follow. So there was a proposal that through the amendments to the law all this was arranged, and this part mandatory now because of the deadline, however, due to further compliance with the Law on Land Books is going with this part a little faster. As regards this answer to the question which is charged, of course, the Regulation will regulate it and it will be developed in the DGU, the part where additional actions are required, which relate to intensive data extraction and processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98846	Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98847	Dear Mr. Uhlir, it is a shame that you came to this assembly house explaining here the need to amend the law on the basis of a decision by the government that was taken back in 2020, it is a shame that you did not apologize to this home for coming with an emergency procedure for the law currently in session, which is discussed in the first reading. And I must admit, it's not clear to me when you come to this house as someone representing the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister that you have no clear explanation of what happened or who failed in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98848	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98849	So I thank you for your question, or more, that was one observation, not a question in which you point out that it is not known why it is going through an emergency procedure, so it is very well known, it is quite clear that the laws need to be harmonised. It would not have been a good idea to rush the changes, and they are related to the other law and to the other competent authority. So, if one law is in a public debate, it is necessary to see what will come out of this public debate in order to make the law work first, and then this one related to it. If two parallels were to go, then it wouldn't be possible to coordinate so easily, so it's purely processically technically this better-quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98850	You can't talk from there, you can use other methods, but you speak from the place no. Mr. Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we welcome, of course, every administrative and financial discharge of Croatian citizens and business entities and I see no problem here. But I would take the opportunity to ask you if you know when we in the Republic of Croatia will finally have an orderly cadastre. I come from Istria where in the 1820s are cartoon maps, so over 200 years old, and then it was done manually, manually, today with all the digital technology we still don't have. It's not just for the sake of order, but in the field, we really have problems up to and including illegal construction and other deviations that happen in space, and that the cadastre is 7-8 years late with a garter, etc. So the question is, do you know any deadlines, I understand that it can't be within a month or a year, but is there any strategy to finally solve and arrange a cadastre in the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98852	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98853	Thank you very much, so on the catastrian scales and the arrangement of space is done continuously. The State Geodetic Administration is making plans, the plans show the possible speed of action, which is of course always dependent on finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98854	Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98855	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary, this is how we all know that the Law on Land Books and the Law on Catastrian Measurements, I am here, you listen to me, no, that's it. So, I'm going to say, the Land Book Act and the Catastrophe are all connected. That's what we talked about on the board today. The only normal thing would be if those two laws had entered the procedure at the same time because they were so connected and interdependent that it was almost impossible without each other. Now we have one fantastic situation that within the debate on the Law of the Cataster, so the first reading is finished, the second we wait, the Law of Land Books is in public debate, and we are now going to the emergency procedure of the law that is in the ordinary procedure. For Croatian citizens, I would ask you to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98856	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98857	Thank you very much, for the second time today, I am explaining the situation with a law that goes according to an emergency procedure, and it is that if something is connected, and yet it is not connected because it is two laws and if one law is in one procedure, then we must consider what will be the result of this procedure and this public consultation so that it can be further aligned with this. So it would be very difficult technically if both of them were in public procedure, to coordinate and there was no obstacle to bringing one to the end first, and then this other one would take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98858	Mr. Marin Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98859	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned the Secretary of State in your opening statement in order to adopt this Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate and implement the measures set out in the Action Plan for the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal burdens, respectively. Can you, for the sake of the public, and precisely because of the urgent procedure under which we adopt this law, explain to the public what these parafiscal burdens this law applies and what it means for our citizens who take care of their situation in property and space.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98860	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98861	Thank you very much. So, the numerous, numerous donations that will be, which will free our citizens by this very law and these urgent changes, total projected at the annual level, are 9.5 million kuna. So it's a huge discharge for individual performances and individual actions of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98862	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98863	Dear Secretary of State here's counterpart Piletic has quite clearly asked a question, and I will repeat it so try to answer from another. So, what kind of parafiscal intrusions are we talking about? Here we have 600 parafiscal duties, here's a colleague from the ruling majority, so I think it'd be okay if you told us what parafiscal duties are about, and if you don't happen to know what's possible, so let's give us a written answer to your colleague Chicken and me personally, and let's see and know what it's about. And here's another question on my side. So, this, this law is passed in view of the ERM II course mechanism that we entered into, or because of the introduction of the euro, in other words just confirm that we did not go into the introduction of the euro, we would not, would we? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98864	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98865	Thank you very much, so here's the introduction of my presentation, which is what the costs are about, the use of data for the issue of excerpts, transcripts, confirmations, copying of data and documentation of state change. So, that's all that's been charged so far, and from this, by passing this bill, these charges will be abolished. That is exactly what is prescribed in Article 1 of this proposed final law. As far as the EU is concerned, the direct incentive is to introduce a European, European, banking union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98866	Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98867	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Uhlir, out of these 9.5 million kunas, am I interested in whether these funds are mainly parafiscal burdens for public bodies such as municipalities and cities that have always used that data so they should pay or have one big share for both the economy and the citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98868	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98869	Thank you very much, so this is a 9.5 million statement that the sum of the sum is dubious for the total costs that were projected during the year and there are costs borne by both citizens and the economy and this body of the local administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98870	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98871	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, here is the trail and what my colleagues have said, so I think it is important to say that it is absolutely whether it is passed in an urgent or urgent procedure of the laws that we are making, and that they are going towards discharging non-taxable and para-fiscal givings as to our citizens, both to our entrepreneurs and to our economics, but as well as to the horizontal harmonisation of our regulations, so ultimately and European gains should be welcomed. So I don't see any reason why we're going with hard words for you right now, but on the other hand, let me ask the question. So, in these 9.5 million kunas are all involved, so both citizens and businessmen are both state and public bodies, and they are therefore going to be freed from these so far and will be included all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98872	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98873	Thank you very much for supporting the law. Yes, they're all included, and as I said, you've also established 9.5 million at the annual level just for excerpts, copies of plans, and this approach is a significant discharge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98874	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now in front of the Social Democrats Club, Mr. Brumnic will speak. Just a minute. The committees want it? They do, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98875	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 12th session held today, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of HS discussed the proposed law on amending and supplementing the Law on State Measurement and Cataster, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading. The debate has requested clarifications related to parties which will continue to pay for access and use of data, which do not have access to network services and other electronic points for access to data. It was also part of the board members who disagreed with the procedure for the adoption of this draft law by an urgent procedure which we have already heard. Most of the votes, the Committee decided to propose to HS the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98876	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Brumnic is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98877	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So today, during this debate, I actually became aware of one fact why we work Wednesday through Friday. That's what they did to you from Wednesday to Friday, and they didn't move away from the beginning. And now what's this about? So we have a government that was sent in a parliamentary debate of the Bill on Amendments of the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster we discussed a month and a half ago, where this speaker was mentioned several times that the cadastre and the grantovnica were to be processed at the same time, that the debate on the land book and the cataster was to be held in a way that we practically realize that these are the two laws that govern virtually the exact same matter. And then today on the board we get an explanation that we're going to this emergency procedure for why? Because in the 5th month of 2020, which is about a year and now 10 months, the government decided to lift the parafiscal burdens. So I'm asking what you've been waiting for with this parafiscal charge to date, or what are you waiting for with all the other parafiscal intrusions? In fact, this bill, as I said and on the board that the board president didn't mention here, mentioned the part that he was responding to, to say that it was discussed on a committee that the government had answers to, but those things that were mentioned on the committee that they didn't have answers to. And now that we have this law in the emergency procedure, do we feel it's good to lift parafiscal charges? Yes, we think, I don't think there's anyone in this Chamber who doesn't want to make life easier for the citizens or reduce their costs when they have to do something in front of the authorities of the state administration, but my question, we as Parliament MPs cost the same thing, the government costs something and this government and this assembly do one and the same job twice, and they'll probably do it three times. I'm asking the secretary of the ministry who came here to represent the government, who is responsible for the non-coordinated work of the Government in this case, or not coordinating the work of the government bodies or ministries? And I have to admit that I'm sorry that someone can get off this phone booth saying that they don't need any extra funding to implement this law here because I'm curious about where the money went when those fees were charged. If you stop charging us for something, and you don't need new money to do that job, then I have a very simple question for a government official here, what was he doing now with the money he took from the citizens? And I have to admit one more thing, I'm sorry we don't have two votes when it comes to law-making, and that's one vote on procedure. A colleague here mentioned something in his replica, which is what you're coming to HS, and you haven't explained in anything how the law so far has worked, which has caused good, which has caused bad things than you're reading from the paper that you wrote that in the future it's going to be good. You read the same thing when the law was passed and then you said the law was perfect, now you're changing it. Well, I guess in the meantime something was going on with that law, someone, I hope, carried out an impact assessment of the regulations, and based on that impact assessment of the regulations, concluded that he had to come before HS. I don't understand it, but I really don't understand that when you come before this Croatian Parliament, you're pulling yourself out of the EU. This EU is all the things it requires of the Republic of Croatia to approach any of its let's say bodies, I have certainly become segments, and at least two years earlier than this takes effect. So at least two years later. Do you support this I think that in principle you should support any thing that makes it easier for citizens to participate in this country's life. Should this government be told she was doing well, just the opposite. But I don't know how to say that to this government and that someone in this government realizes that there are some things that need to be changed in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98878	You, too. Mr. Ante Kujundzic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98879	Thank you, Chairman. You didn't answer my request at the beginning? So you said that the changes would go well, but you didn't answer me whether you had collected certain experiences on positive solutions or parts that should be changed in the current laws. With regard to the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates in terms of the abolition of certain taxes, the extracts I believe is something that we will agree on one good thing but more or less what we have seen from the replicas by ruling leaning on a form of populism which is certainly not good. The truth is that some 200, 300 kunas will pay less than incredible is the fact that from May 7, 2020 until today, we have only applied or changed just what someone asked us to do. I guess we had plenty of time to change one of the most complicated, most complicated and certainly unequal legal legislation. A casual approach that led us to, and above all one form of unconsciousness and negligentness. It is likely to disappear the day when the famous Europe asks us to and changes on this issue, because that we really went to facilitate the position of citizens who have been forced into quotes to deal with the disaster, and consequently with the implementation of the elaborates for the purposes of regulating their borders is an undertaking that no one has yet solved in one whole and quality way despite the fact that civil departments are overcrowded with objects from this domain, and the solution is right under our noses. And I don't understand why this isn't in the interest of the state to simplify the procedure itself and make it logical to young people whose existential goal is actually to build a family home, and to meet a certain one, I can freely say the battle for the ownership list, and then later on for the building permit because it's all going on. In order to finally raise the loan, build your house and pay VAT neatly to the state. It is primarily necessary to come from the fact that parts of Croatia were historically influenced by different systems that can be said freely by more precise political empires, and as a result, it is a completely different way of editing catastras and land books in different parts of the Republic of Croatia, so that, for example, the legal arrangement that is brought about on the basis of problems that occur in the north of Croatia under no conditions can be reconciled by any solution to the problem that is happening in the south of our Croatia, and the laws that are actually being introduced even more confusing in the implementation of the system itself within itself, so it does not go through what was going on too shyly, and it does not know first of all that there are any emborates standing on the table for months. So this is what we have in practice and I personally went through it. The most recent example is the famous article 25 and its inaccuracy that is being speared from the day it entered into force in the new routine, so we have more interpretations of the legislators and even the state geodetic administrations themselves. However, even after many years of being the same, we have cases that, for example, the Omiš katastre does not perform elaborates under Article 25 and usually requires additional documentation and contracts that are sometimes impossible to come up with for a variety of reasons. For example, the Earth Book itself with many dead persons makes it impossible for a particular party to deliver a requested contract on the recognition of property rights. If we want to be concrete and useful, if we want to listen to the profession and analyze the practice, then the law in question is necessary in a way that allows for the separation of land-book particles in a easier way, because the only relief of the proceedings is the parties themselves and the result is actually a monetary discharge if we are going to talk about the monetary discharge that was actually discussed at the outset. Today, in practice, what do we have? We've got years of unhappiness that most often looks like this. The citizens first have to pass the verdict after which they could in any case initiate the splitting of a particular particle of the country under that verdict according to the normally established borders, and only after the completion of the plot can they be registered, of course, if they are lucky, because there are landowners who do not allow the recording of such a judgment, where it is found that the oxy is the owner of a part of a particle, but are asked to pass a new judgment and to that newly formed particle of that number of markings and squares as it was created with that elaborate. For example, this is what a Sibenik court does to you. Now let's imagine how many citizens are costing each procedure to this kind of criminal procedure. If our goal is to reduce the cost of citizens and simplify practices, I don't understand why any of this is not already included in these changes that are ahead of us because you often need a sketch of geodetics first, then first degree procedure, so pitching and elaborated according to that verdict, then a new lawsuit and procedure on new numbers after the elaborated, and this takes an audible amount of time. Therefore, he cries out for amendments to the law at least the southern part of the country from which I come to simplify the procedure of previous parcelation, and then without any doubt and uncertainty, he can proceed in the process of cleaning up the land, and even press charges while the trial is under way, because by the time the case comes to court, the elaborate has already been carried out, and this is especially if the road is facilitated. I believe that these changes about which or which you have announced will not only solve the problem that we can find in the article. 25, but a whole series of all that the Geodetic Association has sent as such. As for the very removal of this cobwebs which, in part, is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, I don't think I have anything to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98880	- Mrs. Crescent. Sanja Radolovic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. ... I've changed your sex recently, please. [[The bench speaker doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98881	Dear Vice President HS, I thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's amendments to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster, or in this emergency procedure, are actually clear what we were saying at today's session of the Resorship Committee, there is simply no systematic strategic consideration of the adoption of legislation in our country, and it is quite clear today because we had a first reading of the amendments to these laws on procedures before a full month ago so that we would now have an emergency procedure and a united first and second reading of these other amendments. However, what I still want to point out clearly is that the main problem of all these changes does not adequately address the alignment of the catastra with land books or the judiciary and until citizens are resolved, and unfortunately, investors will continue to wait in some cases for the formation of particles, the solutions for the identified particles, as well as the most important ones, and this is the harmonisation of land books with the cathedral. In addition, publicly available data on the results of research conducted among the users of land-based departments of municipal courts and catastras, so both citizens and entrepreneurs, who should tell us that we can be concerned about citizens' self-esteem in institutions, so let's just say about 45% of citizens think that catastrian offices do their job well in accordance with the law and without corruption or other forms of law avoidance. While that's what 37% of citizens think of the garter. On the other hand, 29% of citizens think, according to research, that grants can't be trusted at all, so almost 30% of citizens, and 18% think the same thing about the cadastre. As a benefit of the state from the bookkeeping of real estate citizens most often state the real estate records for tax purposes, and the money that the state actually collects from the bookmaking process, and it is interesting that the benefits of the state only point out those involved in the financial aspect of the property book, so tax collection, money from the process until the general social utility of the citizens is recognized at all. Interestingly, although citizens do not believe in the institutions of assessment of the relationship and work of officials is significantly more evaluated, so the assessment of the relationship and work of the officers in the grantovnica is somewhat higher than the assessment of the work of the grantovnica itself and is 4% and almost 50% of the users of our citizens and entrepreneurs are fully satisfied with the relationship and the work of the employees. The work of the officers in the cataster is also assessed positively by our citizens with a score of 4 and in this case, few are dissatisfied with the relationship and the work of the officers of 8%. So, right now, our entire system of catastras, land books, or garters rests on enthusiasm, with the good will of diligent individuals who are responsible and consciously trying to do their job and being at the service of citizens and entrepreneurs who have to say regularly and nervously at the door when their cases will be solved because they are waiting for certain acts and solutions, even though, for example, a large part of things are stuck right in the judiciary or in courts, rather than in the cataster. Also among 40% of the citizens who participated in this survey, those who should coordinate the situation in the cataster and grantovnica for one of their properties, as many as 60% of them, have stated that they are not planning at all to launch the process of harmonising the cataster and grantovnica for that property or that property. The reasons for this are that they are numerous from the assessment that it will take them a long time to expect great costs, and on the other hand, a fifth of our citizens feel that they do not have enough information about all this. Certainly these amendments to the law go in the right direction, we welcome any reduction and movement of parafiscal burdens and for citizens and entrepreneurs, but the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers itself said that it was inappropriate that the amendments had not taken place immediately with these amendments, the amendment of the Law on Land Books, or it was only on e-consultation and that it should have been parallel to the procedure of making amendments and one and another law, and their main objection was also what the profession was not directly involved, so they were not included in the Committee for Drafting either, nor other law, we saw that they were involved only through e-consultation and even as much as the e-consultation in the comments we had the opportunity to read that the DG itself had led them to the fact that it would be better not to send it directly to them, and that I do not think that it was good practice. I think that both we here as legislators and representatives of the legislative authority should see what are these remarks of the profession, comments and suggestions, and not that we must self-initiatively look for that. Also what the profession and the competent chamber consider, they say there is no significant shift towards the necessary integration of the data of the catastra and land-book data into the unique record. They also consider that, in addition to amending and supplementing the law on measuring and cataster of real estate as an amendment to the Law on Land Books, it must go as quickly as possible to amend and supplement the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity in order to actually obtain legal conditions for the participation of all interested authorised geodesy engineers in the process of catasteric change. So today, in Croatia, the status of an active authorised geodesy engineer has 1119 people who are employed in over 600 organizational forms of which 120 offices are actually the offices of authorised engineers. So it's not a small number, the profession is here to listen they've made quality suggestions. Only on the amendment of this law have they submitted to the 70-page analysis, and I think that the proposing representative should certainly take that into account. I repeat, even though they told us on the board today that they cannot intervene to include the profession and chamber of authorised geodesy engineers in the amendments to the Law on Land Books, since the procedure is run by the Ministry of Justice, I think I can certainly make that kind of suggestion because I don't understand how we're ever going to achieve harmonisation between land books and catastrases if we don't have two resolution ministries and the State Geodetic Administration working closely with each other, it just doesn't work. We will support these changes because we think that the relief and release of parafiscal burdens for citizens is good, but there are many things that still need to be done. For example, it is interesting to quote when we had in the first reading the amendment to the law that due to the suspension of the bill most... the cost of use is expected to decrease revenue of 9.5 million kuna. However, what the ruling does not talk about is the lack of personnel who will implement all these changes with an already existing lack of personnel from before and in courts and in land books, you know the catastro, and you also complain to the leaders of the local self-government units that literally they do not co-finance the salaries of these employees, that they do not buy printers, toners train some material conditions to wait for years for the adoption of acts and solutions so that they do not even disburse the local administration but they are still increasing the costs for their local budgets. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98882	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar will represent the attitudes of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98883	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that the National Movement Club wants and wants to support these legislative changes in particular in this section concerning the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal givings, it is clear not only of those laid down by this law but also of many who still exist in the near future, let us hope that most of them should be abolished. We welcome the fact that there was a conclusion on 7 May which adopted this action plan to reduce tax and fiscal duties, so we are also here because the State Geodetic Authority is in charge of implementing the action plan in this part of its competence. 9.5 million kuna is certainly not a small amount, this amount can be freely said not to be seen as a deficit in the state budget, but I trust the economy still significantly facilitates the functioning and business in any way already. However, many colleagues and colleagues here have made clear what we all know very well, which is that the land books in Croatia are still very messy, that by looking back in history we can freely say that we have seen the last real example of responsible and quality bookkeeping unfortunately in the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, and even many land books, and unfortunately data about them, come from that time. We must certainly separate the state of state or public goods and the state of the private. It is clear that here, a colleague here said that people are reluctantly, reluctantly entering the process of solving their land books because it is also a long and demanding process, especially when we talk about parts of Croatia, each of which are along the coast where we have unsolicited desert debates for almost a hundred years and then, unfortunately, it is overrunning over and in a state of land books, so people don't even get that and it's hard for them. I can't, of course, handle it legally, to be honest with myself, and I don't know how this could be solved in the future. Obviously across the education of people, we must, of course, enable these people to be educated what, how and where to do it. It is commendable to this Art. 5. 1. I apologize to section 4. when accessing the use of data is not achieved through network services or other electronic data access points, actual costs shall be charged. Here we can see so one... one small measure where people are still directed towards electronic descriptors, informically to know, can and can be skilled in this and can also via the system e-Citizens, and then there are various services, among other things, access to land books, come up with certain documents they need, we see by these legal changes without charge. The state of insolvency of land books in Croatia is a major obstacle both for foreign and domestic investors and for researching some associations dealing with the accessibility of the Croatian market foreign investors, the lack of solutions to land books is third in some order of problems that foreign investors see in Croatia, i.e. by obstacles to the realization of their business ideas. We believe that this will be a bit resolved as well as the information literacy of citizens. Let us, of course, assume that the state will be able to provide a sufficient number of employees, a sufficient number of technical preconditions for all of this to be resolved, that one day we will be able to go towards and unite land books, and that we will all have our land books solved, that is, in some way, we will be able to do all that land in any way, or whatever it may be, to function. The National Movement Representatives Club will, of course, support these amendments, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, as well as in this slightly weird second first reading, which is now accompanied by second reading and all together put into emergency procedure. But when we talk about a reduction in giving any of this to citizens, whether it be for Croatian companies absolutely the Homeland Movement supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98884	Thank you. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98885	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, may have given me a look by the end of the debate, thank you. So, regardless of all the explanations, I have to admit that at the very least it is unusual that between the two readings, the amendment law and the additions of the State Measurement Act and the real estate cadastre in the procedure puts a proposal to amend and supplement that same law, but this time by emergency procedure. It is only by the way that there are already so many amendments and additions that it would be best to make a new proposal that would cut off all these changes and changes. These changes are going as we have already heard that the law would comply with the action plan to reduce unnecessary non-income and parafiscal contributions from 2020, which was adopted in accordance with the recommendations of the EU Council for the Republic of Croatia under the European Semester, and is one of the measures Croatia has undertaken to join the European exchange rate mechanism and banking union. Why the proposal to amend and supplement the Cataster Act in the ordinary procedure could not be voted until 31.3. that is, the deadline remains unknown. It certainly remains the couriosum, unfortunately not the only one in this House. I was saying something today about this and the free speech, that between the two readings of amendments and the addition of the law we have in the emergency procedure parts of the amendments and additions of that same law. I'll repeat something I said and discuss the first reading of the law. So it's really fascinating that the Austro-Hungarian monarchy had arranged catastres in the time of horseback, and today in the 21st century, at the time of the digitalization of drones, we still don't have the condition in the area especially given the fact that we know that it's of crucial public interest, so the improvement of land records, catastras and land books. It is well known that catastre and land books are connected vessels, that one without another simply cannot. The public interest in improving land records, catasters and land books is unquestionable to ensure legal certainty for citizens, accelerates the realisation of investments, enables implementation of projects and economic development as a whole, and primarily enables efficient spatial planning and the necessary green transition. So logically, the question arises, why the legal procedure was not addressed at the same time by the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate and the Law on Land Books. The Land Book Act is now only in public debate. The Cataster Act passed the first reading in the regular procedure, awaiting the final debate, and today we have been given a reason to wait for the Law on Land Books to discuss these two joint laws, discussed at the same time. And now I repeat again between the two readings we are getting in the emergency procedure of the same law, and I will repeat it again because of the 2020 action plan, and today, as we know in 2022, it is an immutable fact. So could it really not have been possible to take care of the deadlines for entry into the European Course Mechanism in time and avoid this unnecessary emergency procedure within the first and second readings? The date of entry into the euro zone is long known, everyone in this country knows that. 1.1.2023 and there was really no need to go into emergency procedure at the last minute. But in this whole mess, one thing is crystal clear, and that is that neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the Ministry, i.e. The ministries did not work on both the laws I repeat at the same time, and everyone knows it very well without each other they cannot and they are not the only ones that would be logical, so they did not, at the same time, refer them to the parliamentary procedure, and this time it was missed to include all the interested representatives of the profession and the necessary representatives of the profession in making these crucial laws. It's not just this law. Unfortunately, we have had these cases and laws regarding reforming the social care system, and I will never understand why the profession is no longer respected in lawmaking. And so I ask, can we finally expect a necessary settlement after literally 100 years in this sector? I hope that the Ministry and the ministries will hear today's debates and that this problem will finally be considered fully, unitedly and that we will discuss both the crucial laws at the same time and that the profession will be more involved, as I would say, literally 100 years later, the common problems of catasters and land books have begun indeed and settled. As for the changes themselves, we, of course, support that citizens should be free of charge of obtaining excerpts, thus reducing parafiscal burdens, but we believe that this unreasonable emergency procedure is totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98886	The HDZ representative club will be presented by a colleague of Mrs Anamarija Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98887	Thank you, Vice President. Respected state secretaries with their associates, colleagues and colleagues, understanding and respecting the reasons presented in today's debate on amendments and additions to this law by emergency procedure and the adoption of other amendments and additions in the regular process of the HDZ Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates with the final proposal of the law. The law is that of the amendments to the emergency procedure, given that the deadline set is at the end of March. The amendment of this law is in line with the Action Plan for the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal duties from May 2020, where Croatia has committed the measures set out in that plan adopted in accordance with the recommendations of the EU Council for the Republic of Croatia under the European Semester, and the deadline set by the end of March refers to the objective, and it is to join the European exchange rate mechanism and the banking union. The Republic of Croatia has entered the European Course Mechanism, a key step in the process of introducing the euro into the Republic of Croatia. We have successfully implemented the measures to which we have committed ourselves in a letter of intent to enter the European Course Mechanism of July 2019, which concerns further strengthening the supervisory of the banking system and strengthening the framework for the implementation of macroeconomic policy, strengthening the framework for the prevention of money laundering, improving the collection, processing and publication of statistics, improving governance in the public sector, and reducing administrative and financial burdens on the economy. In order to achieve a high degree of sustainable economic convergence and successful participation in the euro area, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to implementing additional measures in reform areas. These additional measures concern strengthening the anti-money laundering framework, reducing the administrative and financial burden on the economy by further simplifying administrative procedures and reducing parafiscal and non-taxable payments, improving corporate governance in state-owned enterprises and strengthening the national bankruptcy framework. Although this law that we are discussing today from the domain of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, construction and state property is of great importance to it, it penetrates the domain of state finances, but also economies. Namely, the suspension of the collection of the actual costs of the use of data for the issue of extracts from the printing, copying and confirmation from the State Geodetic Authority records is envisaged. This eliminates the collection of most real costs, while the actual costs are charged to carry out certain technical actions at the request of the parties and extremely for the publication of data where the party does not use an electronic way of access to data, which I also consider to be a really good part of the law, while all public authorities are exempt from paying the actual costs for accessing and using the data needed to carry out the tasks of jurisdiction, and all public authorities as well as other state authorities are exempt from charging the costs and for technical actions. This means that the parties are largely released from payments and the non-taxable and parafiscal payments are reduced in an annual amount of around 9.5 million kuna. I noted that all this is in line with the recommendation of the EU Council in the context of the European Semester. It actually provides a framework for the coordination of economic policies between EU countries and allows Member States to monitor progress in the precisely established periods during the year. This is, in some ways, the coordination of economic and fiscal policy within the EU, which is what we are seeking or should be pursued. The main objective of the European Semester is to ensure national budgetary disciplines and an efficient economy. As a result, the government has also adopted an Action Plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties, whose implementation plans to reduce the burden on the economy by 532m kuna. Of the 50 decommissioning measures, 33 measures concern the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal duties charged on the basis of legal or sub-legislative acts. That action plan continues on the systematic work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to simplify and lay down operating conditions. Points 32 and 33 of the Action Plan relate to today's debate, i.e. the measure to abolish the actual cost of data use, the documentation as we have heard of state measurements, real estate catastra, the infrastructure register, the register of buildings, the register of spatial units and the register of geographical names, as well as to certain actions required by the parties referred to in Article 1 of these amendments and additions, as well as the reduction or elimination of administrative fees. It is important to stress that these amendments or Article 2 ensure the mutual use, access and use of data by all public authorities of the state, both state and geodesy administrations, as well as mandatory data deliveries affecting national measurements and, as we have already announced, a catalogue of real estate and registers from its jurisdiction, with no actual charges and technical actions. As a result of all of this, the HDZ Club will adopt the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates with the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98888	Thank you. We move to individual debates, the first is Mrs. Sanja Radolovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Another Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98889	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Maybe we don't have much and too much to say about this Bill on Amendment and Completion of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates because I think we've been taking part in this debate about one continuity since 2016. When the Government set out for targeted administrative discharge and for citizens and economies with the first action plan, this continued in 2017. Every following year, it has tried to help change sublegal acts and laws to make citizens pay as little as possible, i.e. that they do not pay certain services that were charged until then, that the opening process is not a trade, businesses and so it is cheaper than it was, that everything we use in everyday life to solve certain problems which is less costing or not costing citizens or entrepreneurs at all and thus contributing to better or better lives in the Republic of Croatia and to the everyday functioning of all. I don't think it's worth mentioning that the value of these measures given what we had in 2016. where we are on these charges and on these payments to the state budget would have been incomed somewhere in the 5.6 billion kuna if it had now been reduced through several action plans by some two billion kunas. And if you look at only this law in this form and these 9.5 million kunas as much as it brings savings in terms of those fees that should be paid for certain extracts, printouts, transcripts and certificates for certain solutions that then perhaps there might not be something you could say right now that means a lot or too much, but it always does. But when we look at the overall system of fees and fees, I think one recognizable policy of this government from the first day of 2016 means always to make the most of it to reduce these fees as much as possible or to abolish and thus contribute. So when I remember what we just had in the work protection system that had the most burden on entrepreneurs, where you were just walking out of certain sanitary certificates, all of those lectures, everything that had preceded such a document paid, especially entrepreneurs, and everything that they themselves had to do in terms of certain acts that they themselves had to have in terms of protection at work, when we look at what happened in five, six years, it was almost a billion and 200 million kunas in that space alone, that we weren't talking in each of these individual parts of the individual department as well as now at the ministry that had to deal with this real estate disaster. I think that this is a good way, that this path has its own meaning and that by the end of this term, it will meet these measures and objectives set through action plans, do what citizens expect us to do to make it easier for them. to make it easier for them not to pay certain solutions, extracts, printouts, etc. that they use in everyday life. We think that the great contribution of both the ministry itself and the catastra itself was compared to what we had long ago, long before each individual had to go to the catastra or garland to get some data. This system that has been going on for almost 13, 14 years has led to the fact that we can really have a lot of confidence in these documents today, of course, always need to update it, but that it has made it very easy for all citizens who can access certain services by electronic means and thus help themselves to function together at a much denser level together, and that it costs us less. I think every move that goes in that direction should be welcomed and therefore here I personally support this law. I think it goes to the benefit of Croatian citizens and that we will do so to all who are in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98890	Thank you. Stay, Mr. Zekanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98891	Dear colleague Boric. So, it's not a bad bill, and I must first of all commend these as much as the Secretary of State said 9.5 million kuna in discharging all those who pay various fees. Here you have pointed out, I think this data is true that taxes or revenues are reduced by two billion kuna in the past period, which is also commendable. But what I'm here for means what if, for example, By any chance, Croatia does not introduce the euro, hypothetically I do not know, perhaps some referendum, but something is rumored to be another referendum, is this law left for us, is the euro we want to bring back to the past, are we bringing it just for RM2 or are we bringing it because of what it is... and why we have not brought it back before?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98892	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98893	Thank you very much. For us in the ruling majority, there is a very clear path that we need to cross over to enter the euro area and I think everyone within the system of the state administration knows what to do with it, so that everything that is done is clearly set with certain measures and objectives that need to be brought to certain time frames and after that, when you meet your more or less I think we are very close to that. I'm sure we'll be entering the euro zone at 1.1.2023. That's what all the events here from a few days ago confirm our credit rating from one agency will probably do the following two and confirm to the government that he's doing a good job. I think that whatever it seems to be, regardless of the attempt to defuse itself, I think that we are also doing the benefit of Croatian citizens the maximum of what we can through a number of measures, including through these action plans, and also through changes in laws and sublegal acts, we are contributing to the implementation of the government's policy, which is also the entry into the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98894	Thank you. Mrs. Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98895	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. There is a lot of speech not only today but also in the media area in general about reducing the burden on the economy. These today's amendments to the laws have affected all parties, so other than the businessmen and the natural persons, our fellow citizens, but cities and municipalities and units of local and regional administrations and self-government, 9.5 million kuna is certainly not a small item. I think these changes are real, and that's what I said earlier, that they're continuing to work systemically as you yourself have recognized and said if I'm not mistaken since 2016. And that should also be highlighted on this 9.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98896	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98897	Thank you. My colleagues, I think I always point out the state, but we have systems you're the mayor of one city and I don't know how in your county, but I know as the head of local self-government when we have the county and our attempt to access spatial planning and the overall system requires certain fees and we thought that it's wrong and that it should be lifted, and of course we should all work there, not just some state and county make their own, especially when we're talking about public bodies that we should have all the data available and very quickly and without compensation because I think we're all in business with citizens and that we shouldn't do what we want for citizens to cost, I don't know local self-government just because we want to determine whether any spatial data is as we want or different and that it costs something. I think this is a job for everyone, that it's not just for the state and that they need to follow these government decisions, so as much as possible. Don't ask anyone for everything to be oblivious or free of charge, but to find ways to make it cheaper or without compensation if it's for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98898	Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98899	So here we are talking about the State Geodetic Authority and the possibility of data being made available without the collection of actual costs or by electronic means. However, what bothers us is that you have only mentioned in part now that these data are available. So it doesn't mean anything to us that it won't be charged if all the data needed is not available by electronic means, and it's not yet known when it will be fully accomplished so I ask you to present here a more detailed plan of when these data will be fully available to this service that will be free to live in terms of its fullness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98900	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98901	Thank you very much. I think that the data is as much available as when we talk about the cadaster and the garter what interests us as citizens to see how our particular object stands etc. that in one maximum availability per me. Now, as much confidence as there is in such a single document, I think that's a lot of high-level stuff, and I think it updates quite quickly and often. Now that we're only talking about that part, I don't think we're talking about all the services we want to do, but if we don't know a historical extract of a parcel or a particle, I think it's looking for a lot of effort, and I don't know a cadastre or garland itself, and then it's something that needs to be costing, and it's not just a light document that you're going to issue by clicking and saying goodbye. So there still needs to be entered into certain books and you need to find... what happened to a certain particle a hundred years ago, and to take out such transcripts are copies into tens and tens of pages and it's not something you can give just so here's let it cost nothing. I think there's a difference to make and this law does it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98902	Thank you. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98903	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Boric. Action plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties brought by the government of the Republic of Croatia mainly by HDZ, the HDZ coalition government is only here in this small document to 15, 16 pages of paper saves the Croatian man 9.5 million kuna, which is commendable for all. But let's just throw one perspective at another great possibility of saving so I can ask you for your assessment. How much would a Croatian citizen be a natural or legal person in the next two years when you in HDZ would end corruption, do you have any approximate number in billions of kunas?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98904	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98905	Thank you very much. I think trying to make every question or any debate turn into a story of corruption is what makes the opposition an opposition. We in power disagree with your statement of opinion or perception of what you're talking about. I hear here all kinds of data that are sometimes not to believe that someone can say it at all, so we'll leave it to the political parties to do it themselves or to fight alone in that space. I will remind everyone that such stories were also fought in the mandates before and that the result in the elections showed that such a story is simply not what citizens expect from the opposition, that citizens expect concrete arguments and programmes, about their own programmes, about their own proposals, and that it contributes to political progress or to life in Croatia. And this is what I'm saying about it. They all have their opinions and let them say it, some at the bar, some in the living room, some in the assembly, but basically I say there are institutions that deal with it so let's deal with it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98906	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And it's Mrs. Selak Rasdic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98907	I will, of course, point out that it is not a good practice for HS to put ourselves in a situation that we have to pass laws and even to make less changes in the scope of an emergency procedure because our deadline for Europe is at the end of March 2022. So we find ourselves in some form of blackmailing that we cannot discuss the laws more in detail than we have to accept them in the form in which they arrived, no matter how useful they were to our citizens, all laws should be passed in due time, and such changes would certainly be useful if they had happened before. So we can't have too many laws in the Croatian Parliament being passed by emergency procedure and we can't consider that practice normal, especially conditioning this emergency procedure with some deadlines we've known before. What I would like to refer to in particular, given that we have already spoken on behalf of the club on these amendments, which are very short on the problem of the General Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, which is what we are all waiting for, which is more detailed changes that are necessary and where we need to look at a more comprehensive discussion of how we want the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. In this sense, I will refer to the professional objections of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, where it is very important to point out, and it is also related to these amendments, because we will now have two amendments because we have a deadline here, so it is a matter of how much it makes sense to change now, and then we will go to some more complete amendments to the law, instead of having done everything in time and in one procedure because our time and energy are being spent in the final line of public resources on our work in the Croatian Assembly. So what is cited as an objection by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers that the proposal for a draft legislative action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows that no amendments and additions to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity have been planned at least recently, which the chamber holds necessary to amend in order to obtain legal conditions for the participation of all interested authorised geodesy engineers in the process of catastrian measurement, which is certainly the goal that we need to pursue. In Croatia 14.2.2021 the status of an active authorised geodesy engineer has 119 persons who are employed in 676 organisational forms of which 121 are the office of authorised engineers, two joint offices of authorised engineers, and 553 legal entities. The record available to the chamber shows that at this time 80 business forms are employed by three or more authorised geodesy engineers, which is one of the necessary preconditions for reaching agreement to carry out the tasks of a cadastrian measurement. While we have been talking about this for many years, we do not see any changes that are necessary, and this is a shift towards the necessary integration of the data of the catalogues and data of the Earth Book into the unique record. And that's what you talk about all the time when you mention state measurements and real estate cadavers, what burdens our citizens, the functioning of public administration, local self-government and everything else. In view of the need for changes to be made more recently for the purpose of the implementation of a multi-annual programme of catastrian measurements of the construction areas of the Republic of Croatia, it can be understood that this is not fully covered, but it must certainly happen as soon as possible. What I have already mentioned to my colleague, Boric, is that catastra data can happen without the collection of real costs through network services, but also other access points by electronic means, but it is necessary to ensure that everyone is available for download which has not yet been achieved and is not known when it will be fully achieved. It would also be important, of course, to have that deadline to commit to allow all data to be downloaded through a network service. So we could also legally define it so that we can trust that it will happen safely. What remains as a problem of principle law and what we do not see will be resolved soon is that it is not possible to record the state of public and unclassified roads, municipal infrastructure, water buildings and railway infrastructure in situations where particle owners bordering the mentioned buildings have previously recorded their cadastral particles in a way that unwarrantedly exhibits parts of the mentioned buildings as their property. This is an increasingly common topic, however it is still not resolved or can be solved by the principle of who his first girlfriend is. And it needs to be done to raise awareness of the public, managers and owners of public buildings, and by applying positive legal solutions. So the wider changes The whole law and full access to this problem. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98908	Here you go, Mr. Bully. He's got a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98909	Thank you very much. My colleagues, here's the last one I'd turn to means unclassified roads and cadastres. It's one of the biggest problems I've seen as mayor of spatial planning, changes in spatial plans are problematic. But the unclassified roads owned by the signs of natural persons are simply recorded. In what way it was done, as the legislator made it possible to amend the law in 2012 so that in the building space the one whose particle behind the unclassified road was legally not resolved, but the unclassified road as introduced were unclassified roads. That's hundreds of examples only in Sinj. So we don't have to expand the area, we have to make decisions, we as a local government have to literally nationalise someone's foundation under the laws of the Republic of Croatia, because this one can't get a building house or a building permit until the next. So it's one of the biggest problems that's been thrown under the wallpaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98910	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98911	That is why I stressed that the law does not prevent the recording when we talk about the law entirely whose changes we will soon have to approach the state of public and unclassified roads, municipal infrastructures, etc. It's really one of the biggest problems. If we're talking about practice, anyone who's been in a smaller place, who's been staying in a coastal place knows that they're literally falling heads because the neighbors can't agree on whose parking lot it is, whether it's someone's private property or it's a public road, a road that has to go there and that depending on what documents they're looking at, everyone has the right to call on him to be right. And very serious conflicts arise, and the problem remains unresolved in practice. The law should be completely unequivocal when it comes to that. This is a problem that we will have to deal with, not that someone's private property must be nationalised or that it is pushed under the rug in accordance with I don't know the agreements, with some local self-government leaders, which puts someone else in a more unfavourable position if there is no such good connection as the case in Croatia very often.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98912	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic. Stanka. Just a moment, Mr. Zekanovic. Stanka, here's Mr. Bull's break on behalf of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98913	On behalf of the MOST Club, 10 minutes after this very important topic, and the colleague mentioned Selak Rasudiæ unclassified roads and others, but I will talk about unclassified roads and we should underline this, especially you. We, as legislators and you governments, are giving the laws. This law is literally on the leaders of units of local self-government, some give through the council the name of unclassified roads I did when I welcomed the city administration when I saw the objections of people on unclassified roads which are registered or which are to be entered is one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia if, according to the sample that welcomed me in Sinj. A hundred such demands of those who have noticed. What's the problem? So the property of 1/1 is a natural person. The building area is everyone's interest in spreading. However, the government and no one has provided money to buy that road if a man wants to sell it. It's just that I, I make my decision on the council, I suggest that the council make it, and it's usurped to the people. And on the other hand, we're holding down development in this construction area because the other one can't get a building permit without an unclassified road. So 1/1 and colleague Rasudiæ is that, Selak well noted it. It's a key problem. I don't know what it's like in other units of local self-government I'm saying what I've been waiting for in Sinj. So we either have to offer it to the owner of the country to voluntarily give it up or offer to have the city, local self-government or the state pay for it. Well, I can't nationalize, so I'm authorized by the legislator... The law, she washes her hands so that as a local leader and city council, we nationalize someone's country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not how Tito worked either. It's his property. And the law of 2012 said if a little asphalt was put in this thing, something was prescribed. So we're in a big problem with the expansion of construction areas. [[Intruder: Good, time.]] confiscation of other people's property. [[All right, time, thanks.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98914	You were clear thanks and, of course, the break is approved and now the replica has Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98915	Dear colleague Selak here you said you were surprised how suddenly this law came to be debated. I think that we should not be surprised by you or anyone because at the time that we agreed or when the government launched the ERM II course mechanism not only this law, we are also passing every day literally laws that are in line with European legal legislation related to the process of introducing the euro. So this is something to bring. Could it have happened before? It could have been, but here's the obvious law and we wouldn't have made it if we didn't introduce the euro or we didn't need it so much, except in the context of the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98916	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98917	The passing of laws by emergency procedure is rarely justified and should not be standard practice of the Croatian Parliament, which is most often the case. According to what you just said, I have to say that it turns out that actually bringing the euro into the euro area has brought us a lot of good, and that is why we will remove some of the burdens on Croatian citizens if we finally introduce the euro. So I didn't realize now whether you became an apologist of the euro, which is in line with your earlier initiatives and finally because you got close to HDZ, you realized the benefits of maybe entering the euro area unlike those of us who remained critical of growing inflation and the problem of how the introduction of the euro will affect the standard of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98918	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know who picked it up. Dear Representative Zekanovic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98919	Dear fellow Members, in 238, of course, dear colleague Selak, unlike you who have launched an unsatisfactory referendum in which you have no idea of any concept nor the questions of these referendums, I personally with my former society have encouraged myself, decided to launch a referendum against the introduction of the euro, and you have hoisted after us in Croatia that wherever we were and spoke to all possible volunteers, do not participate in a referendum let the referendum fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98920	Thank you, dear colleague Zekanovic, you know that it was an injury, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, so you get a warning, it's a second warning. My colleague Selak Rasudic, you also have a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which he is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98921	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. So you're making total untruths. I personally and publicly supported the initiative that we have a referendum on the introduction of the euro, and here I would just remind you that your incomparable campaign led to the fact that the problem was not recognised in the Croatian public and eventually the referendum failed. Unlike the referendum that you consider insubstantial, which we have collected signatures for the second time in Croatian history, we have successfully done so that the preconditions for Croatian citizens to recognise the initiative and that we can have a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98922	Thank you and it wasn't, of course, this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it was a replica, so you're getting a second warning, this one, and now the respected representative, Davor Dretar, is going to have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98923	Yes, thank you to the well-respected chairman and esteemed colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so to say by our home timeline, it is very simple. The action plan was adopted in 2020, in October of last year we had the first reading of this law and here we are now in March 2022 in a second first reading and the first second reading and all together in an emergency procedure. Maybe a little comment of yours. Let's put aside today's debate. The fact is that when you look at it, and I often draw the attention of the Croatian public to the website www/Sabor.hr where everyone can convince the same second that many opposition proposals for legal amendments and other initiatives stand on the agenda of the same Croatian Assembly, some of them even from the constitutive session in July 2020, so please comment. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98924	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98925	I agree with you fellow Dretar, it is one big problem that we should all have the right to act as legislators and to propose laws, but the greatest chance is that they will never come to the agenda and that we are actually writing laws in vain. And if we happen to collect the necessary number of signatures when the legal deadline for our laws to come to the agenda then let us expect the procedure in some evening, late evening hours so that these laws are not known in the Croatian public. The more things take on such absurd proportions that, for example, when the SDP asked for changes to the Penal Code to be more difficult to sanction, to change the deadline for sexual harassment the HDZ refused, and then proposed the same few months afterwards. So, he can even make a proposal that matches HDZ, but he can't unless it comes from HDZ. Thus, the opposition action in this most important substantive sense is fully euthanised. But that practice needs to be changed, and I hope that when the mature power comes to power, it certainly won't be HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98926	Okay, thank you very much, I need to draw your attention to you now that you've been saying completely beyond the subject that I will not allow anyone in the future. This, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98927	... Introduce new criteria. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98928	I can, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98929	How now, if you've been letting others go, you have to let everyone go until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98930	I just warned this guy that he'd take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98931	Okay, it's okay, well, we're talking, of course, the subject is different, so the State Measurement Act and the Realty Catastrophe. What I pointed to several times today through the debate this law would not even be passed...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98932	Comrade Selak Rasdic and colleagues please, let's not talk, let's let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98933	...that it is not the ERM II course mechanism, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not launched this course mechanism and therefore we are simply forced to run means the process of passing this law. The law itself is not bad even though the question of how much we need it, here I have already pointed out that it is not a course mechanism, probably not even going to pass this law. But here I will commend if it is true that the secretary of state here pointed out 9.5 million kunas will be saved or Croatian citizens who pay taxes will not have to put that much money into the state budget. Bad for the state budget, but here's good for all those who pay taxes. Here I have to look briefly at the introduction of the euro as such. Yes, it was an initiative that was the way it was, and we were a little short on collecting signatures so that the euro would not be introduced. Some there are the last day when they were afraid that the euro was actually, that we would collect enough signatures and support a formal referendum, but I will say this with one strong attitude and with the facts that I have, and I can also present them that this same team, and I mean you colleagues Rasudiæ, or your political option MOST, that you visited Croatia after us and tried in every way to tear down our referendum because in the talks before the referendum you said no we will refer to the referendum against Covid. And your referendum against Covid actually read what's in that footnote is a referendum against vaccination because you've never done those two things. They called for vaccination and then went to collect signatures for a referendum, and the questions neither you nor anyone here from this pay phone can repeat. But I'll say that's what déjà vu, so we've had this situation before when there was a referendum on Istanbul and the same team in a little different uniforms has launched some same insubstantial referendum on amending the electoral law, and even today they don't know again the questions that were in that referendum. But it was important to tear down the referendum on Istanbul, but the passages, the paces to pass what they would, as they would say. [[Intruder: My colleague Zekanovic I ask you to stick to the topic.]] So, I'm going back to this bill of law, so the law is good I'm going to support it here even though in the context, it might actually be better to be abstention, in the context of the introduction of the euro. Yes, and this time in fact, I am giving my position to the euro introduced, and I think that the introduction of the euro in the long term is not good, and this law that will help us to introduce the euro will also bring us something bad. So in this context, here is this law, although it brings something good, given that the euro as a new official currency brings us something bad in my view this law, as far as this bill is concerned, I will be minimally abstention. So much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98934	We've got a few replicas, but first the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Bulj, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98935	Vice President, you hurt the whole statute and Rules of Procedure because you jumped into your own mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98936	What statute?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98937	The whole statute and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98938	You have no idea what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98939	They said that if anyone spoke out of the question, you warned Mrs. Selak, and you did not warn anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98940	Yeah, she didn't get that warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98941	So good for you, knightly session-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98942	Have a seat and you get a warning. Uh, she didn't get a warning from me, and she was speaking completely off topic, completely off topic and she didn't get a warning, and I was the only one who warned me that later that I was going to give this one notice, and I also warned my colleague Zekanovic to come back on the subject when he started to think outside of her. Dear representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98943	So, I don't know where I was saying it completely off topic when I was talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Maybe you weren't following what I was saying. As for my colleague Zekanovic, and my colleague Zekanovic, I don't know what to say to you, it really doesn't take anyone to follow you in order to answer your initiatives or to tear them down secretly because you do all this work yourself within the initiative that you have launched. That's why you're here alone today. I'm just hoping by the end of the day you'll finally have that much-needed hug from the HDZ ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98944	The answer was respected by MP Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98945	Dear colleagues Selak and of course you do not know what to say because it is not 5 days when you have agreed questions and agreed answers, this is the Croatian Parliament where a man should think and know what to say. But here's what you try to do better, so you'll have replicas when you don't have any pre-arranged questions and where the only interest is to be smart. So, dear colleague Selak, you're obviously sorry that HDZ beat you up, kicked you out of the ruling coalition, and unfortunately you can't get over your grief. But here's the hug I'm going to offer you once again that here on my shoulder you may cry out grief because you're not in the ruling coalition with Andrej Plenkovic, who drove you out of the coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98946	Let's please go back to the State Measurement Act and the Realtor, because if someone on the side heard what the story was about, they wouldn't even know what this Assembly is currently discussing. Dear Representative Ivanovic. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Well it doesn't matter, it's good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98947	Thank you very much, Vice-President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleague Zekanovic. My hug probably won't help you, but if there's no one else, I'll be good too. In fact, it seems to me that we send very bad messages through parliamentary debates. Sometimes when it comes to much smaller amounts, then we talk about pushing the economy, pushing the citizens, taking their money and where they need it and where they don't need it. When we have the initiative to end things, to want to improve and facilitate in a certain way both the economy and the citizens of the procedure, then we call it not good, to go into urgent reading, that there should be a much longer debate. I think that's just to fill the time. This law is good, it should be supported because it goes hand in hand to those for whom it is brought. Therefore, there should not be much controversy and debate about whether something is urgent, too urgent, or too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98948	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98949	Dear colleague Ivanovic, I will agree with you in part. So, I agree when something good needs to be supported, when it's bad, it doesn't need to be. I don't think it should be in fear whether this bill will pass or not, it will pass, you know it as well as I do, because here's the ruling majority has the means of firm 77 hands, so that's not at all questionable. However, here I still have to point out here in person, so in my name I speak as one of the leading activists and politicians, of course, in the fight against the introduction of the euro, every law that will contribute to the introduction of the euro, regardless of what it brings to a smaller benefit, brings more damage to the Croatian people. I have this fat argument, and unfortunately, I don't have time to answer, but here's the thing, then I'd get in my word, or I wouldn't be credible if I said today that the euro is desirable and we don't want it to still have that attitude, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98950	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98951	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Zekanovic, it's not the law that's the problem. Let him, moreover, save him a lot more millions both for Croatian legal entities and Croatian citizens, absolutely. What we've objected to, I'm afraid it's not, and I may apologize to the best articulated, but it's completely misunderstood on this side of the assembly. No problem that this is here in the emergency reading, the problem is that I quote the material of the deadline implementation of the measures to enter the RN2 at the end of March 2022. We knew that for two years, and here's eight days before the end of March we're discussing it by emergency procedure. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. We could have worked this out for two years, that's what I need to comment on, and that's what we wanted to say. We don't mind saving, we don't have an emergency procedure, but in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98952	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98953	Comrade Dretar, I will agree with you that it could have been before, but since this law, apart from this, saves in the fees that the state obviously wanted, is hard to deny because it is one income I think Croatia obviously does not need. So we can only look at this law in the context of the introduction of the euro, that the euro is not being introduced, that is, if we hadn't entered the RMN2 course mechanism, we wouldn't have passed this law. Now we had before the criticism by colleague Raukar why in free speech, in fact, so it was, why we passed some laws retroactively, or adopted plans retroactively. We're here in time, hand on heart in time. So we have here today is 23. We have a few more days, we can vote on Friday, and in the context of the savings of 9 and a half million kuna I will even say we had to earlier in the context of introducing the euro never.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98954	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98955	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Yes, you mentioned that you support in terms of tax savings, but when we see that the action plan, that the government adopted 2020, that it was then to bring all of this together, that the level of digitisation of the State Geodetic Administration is growing and getting better, that during that time the pre-conditions were created just so that this could be passed and the state budget when planned must then be taken into account. So either it was supposed to be at the end of last year or it was then planned for 2022 with this proposal that was then previously in the procedure, so public publication. So, it all has a certain teaming and I think this is really on time and this should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98956	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98957	You guys are right, this is on time and point actually. Watch the opposition will always criticise both when there are reasons and when there is no reason to criticize little to get, to get a little bit on here's visibility and popularity, so I'll agree that what my colleague in free speech Raukar said that we retroactively adopted the plan that's a little funny and it's for criticism. Here I'll say objectively it's for criticism. There shouldn't actually be any criticism here. Is it due by the end of March? It is. Is it March 23rd? What's the problem? So it's all respected. Now I'm the only one who actually entered the measure of the law itself, it's about the law that will bring the euro. In that context, I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98958	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98959	Here's a colleague and a colleague, when we talk about a cataster, of course we have in this law a certain thing that means less is going to be monetary. There will be savings so that no one will criticise it on that side. However, we will criticise why we are introducing the euro today because of the euro. We can also do this subject, we know that we are now harmonising this law because of the euro. Otherwise, inflation when the euro is introduced is always present in stronger countries than we are in Croatia, but mostly in Croatia, which inflation, crisis and this war is unfortunate and everything that follows us right now. But I'm going to mention what I've given an emphasis on this is the unit of local self-government, but it's also about natural and legal persons, as far as space is concerned, these are the problems of unclassified roads. The legislator was in 2012 it seems to me when he... I brought in a way to put roads in the register, unclassified talking about how we are and manage local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's where the chaos happened, at least I'm talking about what I've been waiting for and people's demands. It is literally private property, not all of it, but one major part that has essentially become an unclassified road under certain legal conditions that should have been fulfilled by the law. However, it is classical nationalisation, classical. However, there should be this financial aspect to compensate these people already if the legislator adopts, and local self-government does not have a financial capacity for such a much larger surface, and smaller financial capacities of this local self-government from undeveloped areas and of course we have a problem. We have meaning an unclassified road to a particular particle in order for a neighbor in the building land to have the right to build a land, that, in order to obtain a building permit, he must have an unclassified road because he simply cannot get a building permit. And what we have to decide is local leaders, i.e. City council doesn't matter, but it's all up to us. We have to make a decision that we accept that it's a local road or we don't accept it. On the one hand, if we accept the nationalization of the man's 1/1 property, legal or physical person, but we're talking about natural persons. Second, if we don't accept it, then he can't get the next particle, he can't get the guy who wants to build that house or anything else, he can't get the license. So we were brought to the wall by local self-government. That's what local self-government needs to unclassified roads run like that in other things, but now I'm saying just... when I'm talking about the cataster, it's very important that we touch that problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should go urgently into the amendments to the law because it's classical nationalization. 1/1 ownership of the station from one unclassified road because someone used something once made something, but basically 1/1 property. So we come up with a huge problem. And the legislator didn't, that bill wasn't foreseen from 2012, it seems to me, I don't know I'm wrong, I know I had to study it and it's terribly difficult decisions and painful. You have to nationalize, if you don't nationalize the way you have he owns it, but the way he uses it why, he's the way, he's the way, he's the unclassified road. You're a man of the Uzi, if a man opposes that, we'd have to go to court dispute. But we cut it short, that's not what Stalin was doing. Now we have to have cash, go to the talks or some compensation with the owner of that particle if we are interested in local self-government and all that the construction areas of the city and that we have unclassified roads, but if we have brought in the building area to build construction land, without being built, then what is the point of changing spatial plans. So I think the tribal, here you are, from your profession, and you're representatives of the government, so you'd see well. Some possibilities have been given, however, but the financial capacities of local self-government are not the same. And we're going to be left with a number of particles of unbuilt land, we're going to stay in a dispute, or we're going to depreciate, or we're going to damage those people who own these particles. It's in my interest as mayor to have as many unclassified roads on construction land as possible. Everyone, every man is to be built. But we have this problem, which is, that law is not the best solution. I know colleague Klaric is gonna say it's not property but it's an unclassified road and it's basically being taken away from a man, but I think we'd tribal a syst and have a good discussion about this law is In the interest of everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98960	We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98961	I agree with you that we do not need the EU as an incentive, regardless of how we support these changes in order to access what is our basic task, and that is to fully regulate the current State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster in a way that is unequivocal and that it is clear to everyone what its rights and obligations are. In that sense, I want to ask you as someone who gets with this problem as you yourself cite encounters in practice every day. How do these disputes end up being resolved, and who gets hurt more often? Is there any way that I can say this to people to take away their property, or is that why infrastructure projects are affected, which is often referred to as the biggest regret for unresolved property legal relations?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98962	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98963	Thank you very much. I, as the newly elected mayor, have welcomed such 70-odd remarks by our citizens on unclassified roads, means that their property, when you check their property, then as a service, determine whether it was once a road, whether something was done on it or not. But that's not the way. And that's a huge problem that I have an urgent solution to. I have to give it to the city council. And is that perhaps the problem that I inherited? That's less important, but generally when you get into that problem, that law then we get to the point where we have to or nationalize to get someone who's got a good building permit, if the road goes to his particle, literally nationalize. It's not property, it's property on it, but it's useless to him, it's an unclassified road everyone uses, and we haven't compensated a man in any way. And that's a huge problem mainly in these mountainous mountainous areas, undeveloped areas where catastres are otherwise not arranged, property hasn't been arranged for generations it's been prescribed so we have this huge problem in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98964	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98965	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, Croatia is not managing its premises properly. We saw that last week when we talked about the new Law on COMMASSATION, we see that, and now that it's a cadastre, the books in the garland and in the catastrus are, in principle, one of the woods of the other road, books from Austria-Hungarian, all of which goes too slowly, and it limits both investment and the general launch of some economic activity in those areas. Now, there's a lot going down on JLS, so here you are as one of the heads of the city of Sin proud Alkarski ask how much in principle our JLS have both fiscal and administrative capacity, dealing with these demanding processes that they now have to carry out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98966	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98967	Thank you very much. Well, I also said in the discussion about the membership that basically all the mistakes that have not been made, all the laws, in 2009, it seemed to me to be a regulation and a regulation in how to co-operate, so 2015. The Yakvina has not done anything either. The commission is now the easiest way to transfer it to local self-government, to do local self-government, and we have one inter-body that could do it, it's one Pharaohic creation, these are counties that don't know how many employees they have, I speak, speak for the Split-Dalmatia County, have a number of offices that were once state-run now are county offices, but everything has moved to local self-government and responsibility on local self-government. Of course that's the issue and the financial caps, that's where the judiciary was to be included, the Justice Department, the Catastres, all of them, but here it was all descending towards, and in this case, the unclassified roads were putting everyone down to local self-government. We don't get away from the maintenance obligation, we don't get away from the obligation, it's ours, we manage it, but we can't take away someone's property without any compensation, and it's led us to this stage that it's left to Pilate's wash hands in these laws to the government, though... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98968	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98969	Dear fellow Bulj, you have touched on a topic that is not within the sphere of this law, but well mentioned, so in your jurisdiction as JLS leader in matters of unclassified roads are two laws, one Law on Roads and another Law on the Communist Economy, so there is no nationalisation but a procedure of authority that is signed, prescribed models and ways and what if the land is owned, and it will pass the road. And when you speak of how you will pay as a city, I believe that your professional services in writing a solution to the municipal contribution behind that citizen of yours that you are going to build, and a legal obligation to write, because the funds of the municipal economy are intended, that is, a communal contribution where it writes for the construction of an unclassified road and whether or not to build a cemetery or something third, and if the money is not built and used for that purpose, then the one who would pay it to get a building permit from JLS is obliged even to return that money unless he has fulfilled what was written in the solution that will be built or paid for the construction of that unclassified road.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98970	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98971	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric. You as a more experienced JLS leader, we know that you know both the Law and the Roads and this which triba and all these activities, but I have studied the Roads Act where we have the local part. A simple bar in the area of Sinj, which has now welcomed me 70 of these requirements for people to own or move into an unclassified road is the property of 1/1. It's like a local leader's interest to be an unclassified road so we can build building land because why would... in construction, however, we are getting into trouble here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We come up with a problem about how to rule out this man, yet we took it away from him... You do your job, people in the service, and by law, it says there's an asphalt, so let's prove who's asphalting it, they say they're paved, we don't have any evidence before 50. Is it? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're just in trouble, we're literally in a phase of nationalizing people, or we're gonna stop the other side of the building and building license, one big problem that would tribal a syst here. I think it's about this law in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98972	Thank you. The next final speech will be by respected representative Nevenko Barbaric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98973	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Talking among the last ones about such a legal solution, saying something that has not already been said, and sticking to the subject is really not easy, but good. So the ad that we are discussing is the regulated State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster, which determines the jurisdiction and performance of the business, the preservation and use of the data, and the supervision of the transactions governed by the law. The provisions of the law apply to all other geodetic tasks carried out under hydrogen measurements, compasses and other similar procedures. The relevant Law on State Measurement and Real Estates provides for the payment of administrative fees and the actual costs for the issue of copies of transcriptions, data of transcriptions, data of insights, as well as other actions at the request of the parties. ... administrative fees and charges for the issue of excerpts, transcripts, certificates and copies are the basic reason for the law we are discussing today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As already said in the conclusion, the government adopted an action plan to reduce non-tax and so on. the parafiscal levies adopted on the basis of recommendations from the EU Council for the Republic of Croatia under the European Semester, and is one of the measures that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to join the European Course Mechanism and the Banking Union. In view of the above, as well as the deadlines set, or the time frame of implementation of the recommendations of the EU Council, it is understandable and justified that an urgent procedure for the adoption of this law is not violated even by the business provisions of this assembly. Now, we remember that at the end of last year, we agreed on a program, a 10-year programme of geodetic administration, which brings about 600,000 hectares of building land into line with grant and cadastrian books. We also know that in the procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates is in preparation for the Law on Land Books and the knowledge that 2022. For the first time, the Republic of Croatia has a more serious discussion and is preparing for the coordination of these books, so this is what makes us all think that this is really a big problem, a complex and very complex problem. The reason for such a state of non-compliance of the grant and cadastrian books is more than the unsustainableness of the courts in the conduct of mainly desert debates, the notion of ownership or property of the former state, not the urgency of the administration, and we saw from that programme that it cost all that well. The proposed legislative amendments and additions to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster shall provide for the collection of actual costs for carrying out certain technical actions and, at the request of the parties, for the exclusive use of data when the party does not use electronic access to data. There is no collection of actual costs for extracts, transcriptions or certificates used through network services. All public authorities shall be exempt from paying the actual costs of access and the use of data, the authorities of the state administration and other costs of other technical actions. The proposed legislative changes with a view to obtaining or reducing the allocation or reduction of non-tax and parafiscal burdens are also part of the measures to discharging the economy of this Government. The proposed changes, as the proponent says, will ensure effective land administration systems, increase legal certainty in real estate management, facilitate investors as counterpart Blažević said, therefore the HDZ club will support this bill or amend and supplement the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98974	The next final on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta, will be spoken by the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98975	As a club that consistently advocates the reduction of all parafiscal commitments, as a club itself that has launched initiatives in this direction, I will remind myself of the one in the HGK which unfortunately was not accepted by the ruling and their coalition partners, although they, in particular Mr. Hrebak, are themselves nominally as liberals advocated the same, and in practice they still preferred to remain in power rather than agree with the opposition proposal. As such, we will also support this reduction of parafiscal burdens and certainly welcome this policy direction. However, I must also point out two things, first of all, that emergency procedures are possible within the Rules of Procedure of HS, but they are rare when justified, and in our case they become part of standard procedures, which prevents a quality parliamentary debate which we cannot possibly support. And secondly, because of our own inconsistency and lack of a broader hodogram in the legislative activities and political vision of our country's future, we find ourselves in an absurd situation that we have these very narrow changes to some of the articles that we are doing today, while at the same time in the procedure of the same law with broader amendments that we are just waiting for another reading. So is it normal that inside, let's hope for a few months because this Law on State Measurement and the Realty Catastrophe, with the wider problems that it brings, we're going to be very important to work things out in practice, so we're going to be in a position to discuss the same law twice within a few months. And otherwise, we happen to amend almost all laws once a year, i.e. in one parliamentary term, to pass changes to the law in terms of how much law we even have in force, which is not a good practice of HS, which creates an atmosphere of legal uncertainty and makes it impossible for quality economic investment and makes it impossible for the Republic of Croatia to progress accordingly. Continuing on the subject of the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty, with the greeting of the movement of parafiscal burdens, which is the subject of these shorter legislative changes, I will point out a number of things. It is firstly necessary that within legislative activities it is also necessary to make amendments to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity which is necessary to amend in order to obtain legal conditions for the participation of all interested authorised geodesy engineers in the process of catastrian change, as stated by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers. The second thing that bothers us all is now we could hear some signs from the HDZ Club that this is finally going to happen, but we've been listening to this for decades to combine cataster data and land-book data into a single record. I don't know when that's gonna happen or if it's gonna happen, and that should certainly be our priority. Data should not only be free of charge but should be made available as such in the broadest possible sense that citizens benefit both citizens and legal entities from such legal changes. And finally, what the Law on State Measurements and Real Estates must finally settle is what I have mentioned in the presentation on behalf of the Club and is the recording of the state of play of public and unclassified roads, municipal infrastructure, water buildings and railway infrastructure in situations where particle owners bordering the mentioned buildings have previously recorded their cadastral particles in a way that unwarrantedly exhibits parts of the mentioned buildings as their property. We cannot be constantly in a situation to prevent infrastructure projects because due to messy legislation we come to a fight in practice between local self-government, citizens and all others about who is right and who it will be when it comes to whose road this road, whose road is this road, and what it can and can even do with it, or the worst disputes that are known to everyone, whose parking can be. Once again, the Club of Representatives of Mosta supports the shift of all parafiscal duties that benefit our citizens, so it will support these legal changes, but let us no longer put ourselves in a position to have a parallel in the procedure of two amendments to the same law. No matter what harmonisation was involved, these deadlines are that there are systematic thinking and broader visions of how the Republic of Croatia should look could have thought much, much earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98976	Finally now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative called Brumnic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98977	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't actually mean to report final, because more or less everything was said in the club's statement on behalf of the club, but what HDZ did last me, it encouraged me to call in to try to kind of replicate what the job of the state is. The job of the state is based on two things de facto. To manage space and work with people or work around people or to allow people to live in some space. We're witnessing that here on the right we're being explained that for 30 years something couldn't be done, and that something that couldn't be done was actually just a political decision. Nothing more than a political decision that wants to move in a certain direction. The promoter himself today said that he had listened to the debate, last time to the Cataster Law, when the opposition warned that the Law on the Cataster and the Law on the Land Book were in fact two similar laws, i.e. the law which practically deals with space, i.e. the property and data relating to the catastroy of what is in some space. To talk about today being discussed in an emergency procedure of what this government is, I hope it drew itself as a goal, to reduce parafiscal intrusions, and it was plotted two years ago. Which should have waited 2 years, i.e. to whom it went on hand that we hadn't passed this for 2 years, and probably many other laws that were prescribed and that government decision. I have to admit, either the government doesn't know where it's going or the government doesn't want to go out of any of their own or other interests where Europe tells us that we should go and where all of us who came out here today are aware that we should go. To talk about coming here after 2 years with an emergency procedure in front of this House only talks about how you are incapable of controlling your own processes. I said in my first debate, Europe didn't send us anything from today to tomorrow. Europe didn't ask us to do anything, even if we are part of that Europe, to agree with something within a week, two, a month or a few months, but it gave us that time of year, two, three. And after a time of year, two, three, we show up here and discuss it in an emergency procedure. This means that someone has been doing the same to this country's interests the rest of the time. And that's what the problem is. Here, thank you very much. I'm saying, it's no problem to support the removal of parafiscal powers, but someone really needs to ask themselves the question of the functioning and functionality of this country's management.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98978	That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We now move to the next item, which is: - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, is submitted by the State Audit Office on the basis of an article in the provision of Article 19. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Government delivered an opinion, does the Reporter want to give an additional explanation? Yes, well-respected Nedjka Rogosic, deputy State Auditor General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98981	Good afternoon, all of you. I welcome the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed MPs and the MPs. The State Audit Office carried out a review of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget for the 20th year and the report on the audit carried out was submitted to the Croatian Parliament in June 2021. The content of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget is set out in the Budget Act and the Budget Reporting Regulation, half-yearly and annually. This audit, as well as all audits carried out by the State Audit Office, was carried out in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The main objective of this revision, to express an opinion on whether the data presented in the Annual Report on Budget Implementation are accurate, reliable and whether they are drawn up in accordance with the rules governing the reporting process. An audit entity of the Ministry of Finance which is required to establish effective internal controls, relevant for the preparation of data and the production of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget in accordance with the regulations. The use of budgetary resources shall not be verified in the context of this audit but shall be verified for use as part of the audit of the individual budgetary user. This is important to point out, as the Head of Budgetary User is responsible for the legal and purposeful use of budgetary resources under the Budget Law. For this purpose, and the need to express our opinion on the implementation of the annual budget, we covered the planning and implementation process of the state budget, the accounting of the state budget and the reporting, the borrowing and issuing of guarantees, and the approval of funds from the budget stock. For the annual report on the implementation of the national budget for 2020 as well as for the Annual Report for the previous years, a conditional opinion has been expressed. The audit identified certain irregularities affecting conditional opinion. It is thus found that the receipts from the dedicated loans amounting to HRK 4.7 million shown in the financing account under the general incomes and receipts, which should have been shown in the framework of the dedicated receipts. For the purpose of the return on loans, a separate group of sources of financing is not defined, and these receipts amounting to €126 million are shown in the financing account in the context of the dedicated borrowing receipts, although this is not about borrowing. This has affected the correctness and reality of the data on the receipts made according to sources of funding. However, it did not affect the expression and determination of the lack of state budget. It was also found that the financial plan of the Croatian Defence Ministry is the largest part of the funding for the grant of financial support and for the grant part of the housing loans planned under the expenditure on the loans given to housing and thus presented in the annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The cost of such funds should be planned in the context of expenditure rather than expenditure, given that it is grants. The audit also found that the premium on issued bonds was shown in the context of revenues rather than as a reduction in expenditure which is not in line with the instructions on the application of the modified monetary principle in the planning and implementation of the state budget and the financial plans of the extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, which resulted in revenue and expenditure being shown in a larger amount of Kun 101 million. It was also found that the revenues and expenditures of the realised exchange rate differences stemmed from the transactions related to the public debt were expressed in gross due to positive and negative exchange rates instead of the net amount as prescribed. As a result, both revenues and expenditures were shown in a larger amount, however, this also did not affect the lack of the state budget. In addition, it was found that the exchange rate differences stemmed from the repayment of loans from international financial institutions are not accounted for or recorded in the context of expenditure, but the payment of these loans, which includes the total of the exchange rate differences, has been recorded and shown in the context of expenditure. In the light of the above, expenditure which would relate to these exchange rates are shown in a smaller amount while, at the same time, expenditure is shown in a larger amount for the amount of undefined exchange rates. The report on further State guarantees and State guarantee expenditure under the potential liabilities on the basis of the guarantees made, did not show any commitments of HRK 1.5 billion resulting from the Guarantee Agreement concluded with the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, and the reason would be that these guarantees were not recorded in the non-balance sheet accounts in the accounts and were therefore not even presented in the Annual Budget Implementation Report, and the law found that the information on the guarantees recorded outside the balance sheet was entered in this report. For all irregularities identified and failures, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations whose implementation would contribute to the truthfulness and reality of the data in the Annual report on the implementation of the State budget and in increasing the transparency of the use of budgetary resources. The State Audit Office also drew attention to the short deadline for the use of EU Solidarity Fund aid for the recovery of earthquake damage in Zagreb in Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County. Until the 684m-euro audit was made available to the State of Croatia, only 653,000 euros or 0.1% were used, and we recommended to the state authorities to implement, or spend, the dedicated funds allocated to the Republic of Croatia, that the competent authorities had to take urgent action in order to ensure the preconditions for the renewal or use of the available funds. In addition, the State Audit Office also highlighted the level of health institutions' commitments, which amounted to €9.4 billion at the end of 2020, of which the commitments amounted to € 4.7 billion and these commitments increased by as much as 43% compared to 2019. According to the latest data we received by 2021, we see that the debt to health institutions and the Croatian Institute of Audit has increased further and has amounted to around 14 billion kunas somewhere. Moreover, the State Audit Office has established that certain provisions of the rules governing budgetary accounting are not clear or that certain issues are not well regulated in such a way that, in the recording and presentation of certain business events, budgetary users act differently. This relates primarily to the use of budget resources for which no time limit is prescribed for which the beneficiaries of those funds should spend and if they do not spend within what time period they are required, they should be returned. So we have established that some budget users who have been allocated budget supplies have been using these funds for more than one year. Furthermore, the principle applicable in planning the implementation of the budget of local units is not prescribed which would be, as well as their budgetary users, which would be important because a clear definition of the principles applicable to the recording and showing of revenue and expenditure, and the value of the assets is very important in order to ensure the accuracy of the data and uniform access to different local units and users of the local budget. It is also not prescribed that off-balance sheet records of potential liabilities which, on the basis of completed contracts, become a real obligation so that certain budgetary users do not record them in their books under off-balance sheet records, and thus do not show them in their financial reports, nor do they then reflect themselves in the annual report on the implementation of the budget. In addition, individual commitments to the application of budgetary accounting shall be carried out through the revaluation of the assets while some do not carry out. There is a difference in this approach because the Budget Law is not prescribed at which point and who is obliged to implement the revaluation of assets, which means adjusting or harmonising the value of assets with market prices, market values, so that some budget users carry out the revaluation until others carry out the revaluation or compliance with market values. It has also been established that the rules governing the content of the State budget report do not prescribe that data on the state of the funds in the accounts of the state, state budget and on the accounts of the budget users are also provided, and this information would contribute to the increased transparency of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget. The rules on financial reporting of budgets and budgetary users in the section in which they edit the content of mandatory notes with balances are also flawed because they do not prescribe that the notes should contain data on significant deviations in the value of assets and liabilities. It also explains the significant value of assets and liabilities. In this respect, it is proposed to the Ministry of Finance as the competent ministry to take action to coordinate both these implementing acts and the Budget Law in order to ensure the conditions for equal treatment of all budgetary users and for the correctness of the recording and presentation of data. The audit also examined whether the audit entities carried out the tasks and recommendations given in previous audits and found that 55%, 55.6% of the entities or the Ministry of Finance and other entities had carried out 55.6% of the warrants and recommendations while 40% were warrants, 40% of the orders and recommendations in the implementation process. In part, 4.4% of orders and recommendations were carried out. The significant procedure of these orders and recommendations that are under way means around 40% was also related to the adoption of the Budget Law. Since the new Budget Act was adopted in December 2021, information on the implementation of the tasks given and recommendations will be contained in the report on the implementation of the '21 budget in both this and the previous audits. A year. I welcome you once again and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98982	Thank you, you have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor, here's the last question you've actually answered me. About these recommendations were there about 45 recommendations here on the last of your report, about 25 of them had already been carried out, so here's the part I was interested in, and actually you've already answered. In fact, it means this year because 2022 already, most of these recommendations should actually be implemented in 2022, yes. That's what I'm still interested in since there's something else, some kind of 2017 recommendation, '18, '19. Yeah, well, that's what I'm curious about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98984	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98985	That's right, we follow up, so if some irregularity has been repeated year after year, we point it out in that review of the recommendations made, and we expect that most of these recommendations should be implemented by, during 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98986	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98987	Thank you. Three short questions. So, I noticed that 350 million kuna therefore the investment of the Republic of Croatia through the loan, either through the recapitalisation here did not result in an increase in the share of the core capital of Croatia Airlines, so I wonder whether the recommendation was later respected or not. Then, number two, I noticed that you mentioned if I heard correctly that they failed to actually meet the health obligations of 14 billion kunas. And the third, third thing about concessions, so now there are concessions concerning shipyards, whether the Ministry of Finance is charging regularly. And my small amount of concession is actually low from 223 million kuna, I see that here it simply evaporated the concession for a spectrum for telecoms that once amounted to 750 million kunas, I did not see any counterproductive effects of different telecoms in Croatia that something increased investments, etc., thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98988	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98989	Thank you very much for asking. Here's to concessions I'll answer first. We've checked claim records and concession fees through the concession register. We see that the register is established, however, that there is a particular problem related to the monitoring of the payment of the concession revenue, especially because the payment is related to certain data that the beneficiaries of the concession need to indicate at the time of the payment and happens that they make the payment without receiving the corresponding data and that it is essentially unrelated to those who were the payer of the concession. And with that, and that's when you lose the picture of how much it really represents. The second problem is that the ministry runs the register, has records of the register, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98990	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Unfortunately, the time has passed. Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98991	Ma'am. Rogosic, I hold in my hand a contract signed between the Central State Office for Housing and a citizen of the Republic of Serbia in which the state of Croatia rents that 28-year-old lady an apartment of 72 square meters in the western part of the City of Zagreb for a monthly rent of 193 kuna. Regular citizens who are Croatian citizens of such apartments in Zagreb pay 500 euros. The contract itself was written with creamy and unprofessionally without any protection for Croatia, but mostly without any legal basis. Please tell me how possible it is that you have not reported HS on a case like this which is mildly going to say scandalous. This is an unequivocal damage to the Croatian state budget because, as we know, your colleagues from Bavaria, for example, in these cases, file a special report or a zoodehericht, how is it possible that your auditors have not seen such unlawful and harmful contracts in the Central State Office for Housing Care?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98992	Thank you. Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98993	I can't really respond to this particular case that you said, I don't know when, in which year it was either or where the audit was covered, it covers that entity. Here, through the implementation of the state budget, such irregularity can neither be established nor can I speak of it now in the context of this audit. What I can say is that all the concepts and information about some kind of dishonest treatment and conclusion of the contract are being verified by state auditors if they have knowledge. You know that the state audit works by methodology, the methodology of the sample because it's impossible for us to verify all transactions that are individually... There are. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we have knowledge and I see that you have passed it on to us and we will certainly check it out and report HS within the next revision that we are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98994	The respected representative Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which he has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98995	The Rules of Procedure in Art. 238. because this is, easy because it is the demeaning of Croatian parliamentary representatives, this is the demeaning of the Croatian public. You're not answering the question, you're talking about someone telling you what the Central State Department of Housing is doing. This is, at the very least, embarrassing, and proof that you are disdaining and not holding even 1% of Croatian citizens is the fact that the main state auditor did not deign to come here and stand before HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98996	Well, of course it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The Honorable Representative Troscott has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98997	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor, I have one question concerning state support. So last week we had an official debate on state aids, and that report showed that the money went to Elektrocentar Friday, which is the person suspected of giving bribes in Slovenia 9, so I'm just curious about how deep you go to the analysis of these state aids and whether you're in your 2020 audits. For example, identify such a single state support? And the second question, I see that it repeats itself year after year, although it is a classification problem, i.e. the registration of state aid from the EU, money from the EU, where the difference is then financed from the state budget, so I am quite interested in the part that is financed from the state budget whether, then, is it fully funded with EU money or is there a certain amount that remains not charged from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98998	Thank you. Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u98999	So when certain EU funding projects are financed, part of the project is financed from the state budget and part from EU funds. If all costs are justified and are in line with the project and the contract, then all costs shall be compensated from EU funds, however, if certain activities, certain actions or public procurement procedures are determined not to comply with EU standards and regulations and our public procurement regulations in that case, the European Commission shall make adjustments, reduce the funds financed from the state budget, from the EU budget or from European funds, and that part shall be subject to the burden of the State budget and the State Office for Audit where such a situation is present and established through the audit, which determines the reasons and which irregularities are identified and the report shall be reported accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99000	Thank you. Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99001	Thank you, Vice President. The Vice-President-General of the State, from the report on the annual report on the implementation of the budget of the National Republic of Croatia for 2020, was respected. It is apparent that the State Audit Office has expressed a conditional opinion which has also been confirmed by certain reasons and facts and for which it has failed and irregularities the State Audit Office has given specific orders or recommendations. From your presentation, we have heard that the Ministry of Finance has already implemented some recommendations or that recommendations or orders are under way, and we are sure that some of the failures and irregularities that must and legally comply here are listed and require legal harmonisation, so please comment a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99002	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99003	So most of the recommendations were implemented as regards the Budget Law, which was the basic regulation that needed certain recommendations and orders to be installed, we have checked and checked now during this audit and we believe that most of these recommendations and orders have been implemented. The second part will be implemented through implementing rules as implementing rules under the Budget Act need to be harmonised within six months of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99004	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99005	Respected Deputy State Auditor. You mentioned three words here in your debate, legally, efficiently and transparently, that's how the state should function. Your report says it doesn't work that way. But what's the key question that's being asked, you're stating in this report some things that are probably being dragged into the state budget, and in other things for years. I'm back in 2011, '12, '13. at the level of the City of Zagreb read the same recommendations, the same problems relating to the display of duties, the transparency of the availability of property, the booking of these assets, it is completely unclear to me why after yours, a man would say well-defined work, well-detected things and good recommendations are not implemented Or local self-government units, and we can see neither at the state level. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99006	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99007	So I believe that one part of this was the reason why they were not well or clearly certain business events and the way in which they were recorded was not clearly prescribed. The second may be the weakness in the system itself, the weaknesses in the control system and the persons in charge of acting, or the correct recording of business events. The fact is that in 99% of the cases, audit entities have accepted our orders and recommendations that they are clear to them, that in the implementation plans they set deadlines in which these tasks and recommendations will be implemented and since the newer law was passed, we have this element that if the audit entities report to the state's attorney that they have not acted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99008	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99009	Thank you very much. Respected Deputy Chief State Auditor. In this report you note that they are missing, there are no sublegal acts that then leave quite a lot of space for something that we otherwise call creative accounting, so the wages in nature are recorded in one way or another, so the state of supply, so financial property, etc., here I would like to hear from you by your assessment, since these reports work from year to year how much is this space and how much are the reports on the implementation of the budget that come to us on the benches in HS even credible because we have different interpretations and different ways in which budget users quite important items are estimated and displayed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99010	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99011	Thank you very much for asking. Here's what I can say here, it's not that some expenditure isn't shown, and that's why our expenditures in budget execution are smaller than the fact that they're not shown in the corresponding expense account, so then we get a different picture. For example, if someone received a receipt in nature, which is considered another income here we can say the simplest use of a car for private purposes, if it is recorded on fuel and all other costs related to it in the fuel account in the place on the salary account then we will have that these expenses are shown, but not by the kind of expenditure where they belong. Therefore, in this respect, if we look at the total expenditure and the total deficit or the deficit of the state budget, we will have no impact on that, it is only in those accounting categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99012	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99013	Thank you very much. Respected Deputy State Auditor, Honored Vice President of the Assembly. So here's the 2020. It was a very challenging year for budget planning, it was supposed to be the fourth year in a series of surpluses that we had three years in a row, and then in the third month we remember that a covid came and big expenditures came, unplanned expenditure which for health care, which for employment that were compensated by just European means. So the planning has been challenging, this conditional opinion that you give is also about your professional work and also about the possibilities for improvement. What seems to me to be very important, and that's what we've boasted about on the resolution board is raising the level of capacity of the DUR, we know you had a twinning project that we hosted in the assembly, which you still think we can do from these benches to help you get stronger in the audit and how to strengthen your capacity. It will, of course, be transmitted to the quality of the report. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99014	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99015	I appreciate the question. Here's the State Audit Office has real support over the last few years in capacity-building and in the last three years we have employed an average of 20 new auditors each year. It is one process of training that takes up to five years and we are making a great effort to simply educate our colleagues so that they can do this job in quality. We now have a big shift of generations in office because people who came in early '94, '95. It's the people who retire now, and in the last three years, this vast majority of those colleagues with experience will leave, and we'll be left with young colleagues. Last year, we spent more than 8,000 hours on the education of auditors in our organization regardless of the education that, where we hire professors from the university or other experts. Here is what is important for us to have the resources for education provided in the budget, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99016	Thank you. Representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99017	Thank you. I'll read from your report a couple of cartoons. You are saying that from 2013 to 2020, the financial difficulties of the health system totaled 9.75 billion kuna spent on the state budget, and according to the Ministry of Finance, at the end of 2020, the commitment to operating expenditure amounted to 12 and a half billion kuna. And given this, and given the difficulties in the health system for many years, your opinion is therefore that your office needs urgent access to the implementation of appropriate health reform. To this opinion and your objection or recommendation, the Ministry of Finance has not given any opinion and accepted its assessment or did not accept it. But here's how long you've been making recommendations like this, and you have any answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99018	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99019	Thanks for asking. The State Office for Revision of such a recommendation certainly gives for 10 years, but 10 years ago, there were no large health obligations as far back as five, six years ago may have grown, and from year to year they are growing. So we still think that we should approach serious reform and this morning when I read this 14 billion-long data at the end of the year I didn't know where and how to reduce it if it didn't seriously access one quality reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99020	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99021	Dear Vice President, dear Mrs. Rogosic. Here, it was found that by changing the rate of contributions for health insurance, so from 15 to 16 and a half percent of HZZO on behalf of it achieved an increase in revenue of 2.3 billion kuna, which is extremely large given that health needs are also enormous. What is to say is that in 2020, in fact, when additional funds were to be added to the budget for these reasons, and what is important to say is that a further 1.3 billion were employed from the budget for both HZZ and additional for the settlement of health institutions' obligations. So that's one huge problem that you also point out multiple times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99022	Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99023	Yeah, there's another problem we've also dealt with, because according to the Health Insurance Act, 32% of the excise duty is prescribed, excise tax revenue goes to the health system. On the other hand, the part relating to the specific rights of certain insurance undertakings is also paid out of the budget. Since these two categories are planned within one amount, we cannot confirm whether the part planned in the budget is appropriate. So our recommendation is to separate how much the planned funds are related to the revenues from excise duties, and how planned the funds are relating to the financing of certain health insurance rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99024	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99025	Thank you, Mrs. Rogosic, I am normally engaged in state and individual state bodies, so I can say that the State Audit Office is one of the institutions that does a really relatively good job within those powers as well as existing capacities. I notice that in fact some of the remarks that you are pointing to, and you are actually letting them know to the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament corrects all those anomalies that exist in the system and that the advanced control system actually ignores the political scene. A few years ago, you claimed that local and regional self-government units mismanaged their properties, that property registers are not well-organized, that local units do not often know what properties they have, and also in this report, one of the good details is that you noticed that no good concession charges are recorded. Do you see any improvement in all these years and what suggestions and recommendations would you make in that section for the next?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99026	Thank you. Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99027	We see that our additional contribution will be that given the large number of subjects that are in our jurisdiction, here according to the latest records of 15000 subjects is in our records and we pass a very large deadline. As long as we do from one to the next audit to a particular audit entity. And now we've planned that every two years we'd just go check on the execution of orders and recommendations, to speed up the subject's actions on the given orders and recommendations so that they could report to the State's Attorney's office if they didn't. Because until the moment we check, we can't notify the State's Attorney's office, and we think it'll make an extra contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99028	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. You can go back to your post, so I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives of the Most Club will be spoken by the honourable representative of the Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99029	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state auditors, the Republic of Croatia's budget is an instrument in the government of the Republic of Croatia, in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is used to achieve certain economic objectives. And when this revised report of the government's 2020 budget is detailed, and their view of the economy could actually be reduced to a few phrases. If the economy moves, tax it. If after tax he continues to move, regulate him. If after regulation it still shows signs of life, steal it. And if after devastation he stops moving, subsidize him. In respiratory resuscitation, put him in charge. And if the economy rises in resuscitation, it sinks it with inflation with excessive money printing. Unfortunately, this foundation did not begin the economies described by known economists Paul Samuelson or William Nordhaus, these did not even begin the economies described in the planned economy that were visible in the former Soviets or Yugoslavia. In fact, it is about the special economic direction of the marathons running the last, the honorary circle and can no longer run away, led by Plenkovići, his ministers, the director of Pupovac, the entrepreneur Milosevic, the current leadership of the CNB, HGK, Ribić and his trade unions and many others who have been destroying and working on the euthanasia of Croatia's economy for years. Euthanasia of the Croatian economy is carried out through corruption, over-indebted debt, uncontrolled state spending, as this report also testifies, high taxes and inflation, which is always and always a monetary phenomenon. A well-known US businessman, Robert Sarnoff, who worked as the chairman of the Radio Corporation of America administration, said the following. Finance is the art of transferring money from hand to hand until it finally disappears. And where this hidden hand in Croatia is best seen through which money disappears the answer is corruption. In this part of the main thesis of MOST is that the amount that disappears annually through corruption by the government of the Republic of Croatia is compensated through borrowing. And where do you see that? For example, it is also mentioned in this report where in the Law on Budget Implementation of 2020 in paragraph 35, Article 35(1) says that the Croatian government can be committed to a level of around 60 billion kuna, which is precisely the amount calculated by the European Parliament that the corruption index in Croatia is about 13.52% of GDP, which is about 60 billion kuna. And then it can be concluded that just borrowing in Croatia is financing the amount or cost of corruption at the annual level. Because if it wasn't for this corruption today, the Croatian sky would be guarding not 12 but 120 Rafaels or American F35s and we wouldn't be flying strange drones in the Croatian sky. If it wasn't for corruption, there wouldn't be any responsibilities. If it wasn't for corruption today, we'd have not 1 but 15 Peles bridges. If it wasn't for this corruption or these duties, we could save 1,600 Mila Roncevic, a girl for whom Croatia paid through the humanitarian action of strange 37 million kunas to continue oncological treatment in America. Which means yes, the conclusion is next. So, the health care system has been stolen, and what we've touched here today is the amount, and what we're borrowing is not enough, but it will still fund citizens and humanitarian actions to treat our children abroad. As regards VAT revenues of the most regressive tax form, according to this report, it also burdens the poorest and not only are we the only European country with a double-digit share of VAT income in GDP but that share in Croatia is almost 80% higher than the European average. And while the Croatian government spends its pardons compared to the rest of the EU, what we will see later with high fuel excise duties has incredibly filled its cash registers. And instead of abolishing them and really introducing controls, the government of the Republic of Croatia is putting ranks on gas stations where people wait for hours to save on one tank imagine a loaf of bread. While the Croatian government spends its pardons on behalf of the EU, people in Banovina wait 11 months for a simple container. And then there's the question. What will happen to the evasive Ukrainians when the government has failed to take care of our people? Entrepreneurs are only a desirable partner to the government when they need to tax the state's cash register. And this report shows that the NGO government is funding public sector and public projects that are inefficient, do not create new jobs and are very vulnerable to corruption. And it's a very clear math that a kuna invested in the public sector can make the most of a return of 1 kuna if budget money is spent effectively. And now we've seen for ourselves that's not the case. If we are to analyse the private state support sector, then companies like Elektrocentar Friday who then pay the same state money in Dragan Kovacevic's pockets and on the basis of this state support, or the citizens' money, receive investment jobs in JANAF and act as big entrepreneurs. Here are the dear citizens and entrepreneurs and craftsmen overloaded the tax system, to conclude this part exists only so that the government would use your money to invest in the investment, for example in Slovenia 9. The total public expenditures, according to the report in 2020 were 55% of GDP and are convincingly the highest and largest of all EU member states, are above us countries such as France, Finland, Belgium and Austria. Can we therefore conclude that they are in 2020. public services were at the level of these European giants, we spent more money than the countries that entered the EU in the wave before us, does this mean that we had a more efficient government and more efficient public spending than, say, one Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland that spent about 10% of GDP less on public spending? Dear people, are you satisfied with the service of our judiciary that you pay through taxes and a cut where court proceedings last longer than the 10-year adventure of Homer's hero Odysseus? And to make the matter more tragic, foreign investors have been warning for years that one of the main brakes of foreign investment in legal uncertainty, and how much legal uncertainty in Croatia proves that for Vukovar, the greatest symbol of Croatian heroism and resistance and the day after 30. No one answered. The parliamentary majority, by order of the aforementioned marathons, has voted in confidence with the Supreme Court and the state's chief attorney that you pay, thus giving support and politics that has been turning its back on the Vukovar victim for years. The other day, Dr. Vukovar's heroin fell asleep forever. Vesna Bosanac, the wartime and postwar director of the Vukovar hospital that you were paying for, the prisoner of Serbian camps that she herself said I quote, our and international justice failed, I witnessed it several times and saw it done. We are now aware that by thinking of Vukovar this earthly justice will not be resolved. Dr Vesna Bosanac has indeed become a beacon to the Croatian people in his fight for Croatian freedom and also Dr Vesna Bosanac has forever sealed all Croatian governments, especially this government of Andrej Plenkovic, so far they have failed to allow the merited justice and freedom of the Croatian people to be achieved in front of Croatian courts and Croatian budgets before Croatian judges in this world. As for the report itself, a great deal of support to our state auditors who have given themselves a lot of effort to give us detailed reports. However, as far as the economic policies of the marathons mentioned in this exhibition are concerned, one big no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99030	On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will now speak the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99031	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the esteemed deputy chief state auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague. The state audit once again made a report that was very professionally, completely impartial and made according to the highest standards. We could say another revision, another conditional opinion, but it can hardly be better than that. With this number of extra budget users and various approaches so-called Creative accounting under quotes is a conditional opinion, like bingo at a lot for the Ministry of Finance and basically conditional opinion is something that has always been if I'm not wrong about anything more than that and hasn't given the state's audit for the budget, so that's one level that the Ministry of Finance and all these customers are going to be financially difficult to skip to more. It may therefore be more useful to recall this 2020. and what caused the state budget revenue drop and the additional debt debt that led to the record levels? Where a public audit report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019 was discussed at the plenary session I have said that I am particularly concerned about the consequences of the closure of the entire country because of the coronary virus that will lead to the fall of GDP. At that time, in the first half of 2020 to point out e.g. Sweden as a positive example of anti- epidemi measures was straight heresy. In fashion there was total control of China's model, so the drones rose and filmed people in the courtyards. Today, this same Sweden has fewer deaths per million inhabitants than Croatia, and it is fortunate that we eventually accepted their model because the money ran out, but if we did so immediately, the figures would probably look a little different and not the growth of public debt would be at these levels. Someone's gonna say it's easy to be a general after the battle, but I was saying the same thing then and now, and I have to point out that I'm really not happy that I was right. This report reminds us once again that tax revenues are the highest income of the state budget, and in the structure, VAT and excise duties are the most important part. All the reductions we discussed last week and essentially agreed that this is a good direction will lead and must lead to a change in this segment. It is expected that the government and finance minister will soon be forced to introduce new taxes and I mean property tax. It is high time that the rich start to fill the state budget more than it is now if we want to keep people in Croatia because those whose water has reached the throat choose a one-way map for developed Western countries. When they hear they have to pay taxes if their family lives in Croatia, we all know what they will do, they will leave the entire family. So let us not be surprised for 10 years when the new census shows that we are again significantly less than starting to charge a tax on property and, in particular, one for which there is no origin of income and on which no tax is paid at all. Let's not pretend there is no such property in Croatia. The State Audit report also reminded us of the fact that it is 2020. HEP paid 664 million kuna to get into the state budget which we cannot characterise as something good because HEP should invest in new investments and ultimately mitigate these price shocks, help our citizens so that their standard of living will not be compromised. Energy poverty, mostly older populations, is already worrying. The minimum amount of concessions charged of 223 million kuna just confirms Minister Coric's statement that the forests, the oil beach, the gas none of it is Croatian because if it were Croatian, that amount would be higher as well. On the spending side, the fact that the State audit has already pointed to several times in 2020 relates to the recording of revenue and expenditure related to EU aid, which affects the objectivity of the data presented. In cases where funds are paid to users before being received from EU funds, it is recognised and revenue is shown from EU aid even though it is not charged. In this case, the payment is financed by the State budget and the expenditure is recorded and expressed as being financed by aid. In view of the fact that pre-payments are made as expenditure in the context of the expenditure incurred by EU aid, part of the amounts for which the services and works have not yet been carried out or for which the expenditure of the project has not been incurred at all. So exactly what the State Audit warns about, and this is one of the reasons for the growth of public debt year-on-year because it means that all projects should be financed from the state budget first and only then obtained from EU funds, which means that we have to have projects that fit into EU programmes that we finance ourselves, and then if everything is okay and there are no irregularities, and we see that they have them because OLAF has our hands full, then we just get the EU funding, and it's always a question of whether we need what the EU thinks we need. The report also shows that units of local self-government have received nearly a billion kunas of unambiguous loans, and that once again confirms that this territorial structure is not sustainable in the long term, simply these over 500 units of local self-government make no sense, it is clear to all, it warns us absolutely, and the EU, but the government will not bite into that acid apple and go into territorial reconstruction. The State Audit also points out that the proposals for regulations and other regulations and planning acts adopted by the Government and the draft laws and acts of planning adopted by the Assembly should include an assessment of the fiscal impact on the budget. So often we come up with proposals that do not meet this condition, and that and a number of MPs point out, most often it is a subsequent impact assessment, which means that we are discussing laws and we do not know what effect these laws will have on the budget, we can make an ex post impact assessment, but there are deadlines that are prescribed not to abide, and yet there is an excuse of course pandemic, activities around the introduction of the euro, and it could be said that a good gold excuse is worth it. It is also interesting to recommend that State audits are related to the development of a financial plan for extra- budget users in which we count for example. HZMO because the ministry has determined that extra-financial customers are developing a financial plan in which income and expenditure are expressed in accordance with the cash principle, so income is planned at the time when payment is expected and expenditure at the time when it is due to be paid, which is what we see is not the case with European funds and the State's audit has proposed a modified monetary principle that implies certain exceptions. Also, these principles are also adopted by sublaws, although it would be much better to resolve both by law and put into law immediately. It is also an interesting way of deploying dedicated receipts from loans contracted with international financial institutions and the EU which are recorded in the general incomes and receipts item, although these are dedicated revenues and the purpose is precisely indicated. So if there is something dedicated income, it should be recorded in the way the dedicated income is recorded because the recording on the general income and contribution item affects the regularity and reality of the data on the receipts shown according to the sources of funding in the reports on the implementation of the state budget, so it could be said that this is still little space for so on. Creative accounting. And in the end, I will just say that Croatian sovereigns will vote in favour of the State Audit report and on some more details I will do more in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99032	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative called Brumnic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99033	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy state auditor, respected colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in a long time, we have been sorry, I would say, too soon to report on this point because I am truly interested in how HDZ will discuss this point, or how those who represent the ruling majority, I will wait for it and we will see how you will discuss, how those representing the ruling majority will accept this report, in which it is said, showing how this government does not actually work. That's what's true, when you look at this report your colleague who's not here right now is in his replica asking the deputy state auditor how we can help you. Well, I'd answer him to change government. Because it seems to be the only way to solve this problem. What's kind of visible in this report, the truth of will, is made for 2020 and the deputy herself said that some things changed, legally changed in 2021, and some of the problems were solved. What is most interesting to me in these reports is that I have read these reports before for the City of Zagreb. And I have to admit they were more than interesting to me, that is to say, they showed how dysfunctional the system in the City of Zagreb and the unit of local self-government was at the time, and how much it was, in fact, causing itself problems and so on to the citizens. Now that you try to compare those two reports, then you sort of start from what was a problem there and that was the problem that the City of Zagreb liked to book its debts in all different, sweet and expensive ways, and not show them, or to dangle them and to silence them. We find the same in this report. The city of Zagreb did not book long-term rental contracts there, the deputy state director here, seems to have not mentioned it in the debate, but there is also a state in the report. Receipts received, and units of local self-government can only be reallocated with the ministry's consent, and the ministry's debt with this agreement is only approved for capital projects. And then those money that sits for capital projects ends up somewhere in the budget, and no one can actually track, especially with units of local self-government, the same thing happens in the state, that what the funds were used for, that they were purposely spent. This is very easy to look at, and it is also mentioned in some way in your report, it was the City of Zagreb, and probably other units of local self-government, according to the Ministry of Finance's instructions, which is to show the budget of the units of local self-government where the budget you adopted in 12 months after the rebalancing de facto disappears. You have prescribed capital projects on the basis of this first budget, you have sent for these capital projects a request to the Ministry of Finance to grant you funding, the Ministry of Finance has granted you funding, so I have called in the City Assembly very often a colleague of Mr Marić, when I was talking about the debt of the City of Zagreb at the time, and then you have rebalancing. In that rebalancing capital project that you got the money that was in the budget was gone, the money was left and the money was spent. It was all in the days of the law. Well, a man would say that. Did the citizens get what they were de facto supposed to get. It's not. And there was in some way the same way as the City of Zagreb. Which I think was bad. One of the things mentioned here in the report itself, and practically it can be mentioned in each of the laws adopted in this Croatian Assembly, is monitoring the implementation of the regulations, i.e. an analysis of what happens to regulations. These, here, the State Auditor actually referred only to the subsequent, ex post impact of the impact assessment of the regulations, but also, in order to know what laws you are adopting should have the basis for how the laws so far have been implemented, which was bad in those laws, and what can or should be improved. We have witnessed today at the Cataster Law that the state has referred by emergency procedure a law which the decision on the adoption of the law practically passed in 5 months 2020 in order to send it to a public hearing for a full amendment of the law, in order to now get an emergency procedure for only one part of the law. I have to admit, it's completely unclear to me how the state, or systems, can function that way. What else? Yeah, well, when you read this whole report, you kind of ask yourself what these people are doing. What is the meaning of their existence when they point to some problem year after year, we want to go back to what you wrote for the property, here in this country report, or what you once wrote in the report on the City of Zagreb and the units of local self-government. From the non-transparent spending of that property, from the non-transparent display of that property, from the assets that are not in the registers, from the property, there were concessions, but not only concessions, but at one point the City of Zagreb seemed to have had about 3 billion outstanding claims. Let someone imagine what it meant to the city of Zagreb three billion, the budget seemed to me to be eight. Same thing here in the state. Who cares why someone doesn't write exactly what he paid for the concession? Just so you can say tomorrow it wasn't for this, it was for this. Because very often those who get concessions in a few places, and then when you call it did pay in Osijek, so that's what I was going to pay. Then when someone later asks if it's paid in Zadar, it is. And if someone catches him that he didn't pay in all places, then pay the difference. So I say the management of the property mentioned here in the country was reflected in the same way in the city of Zagreb probably in other units of local self-government. The other day we had on the board a report on the spending of municipal funds that you also audited. I think when you read that report, then you can just grab your head, that this country, the units of local self-government, aren't even road owners, let alone know what the owners are. We invest on other people's property, property that may be ours, maybe not ours or we don't invest in that property that our citizens should use. That's why I said at first I was very interested when someone on behalf of the HDZ comes out here in a way that will try to explain that this is a good report, a job that I think has been doing well for years is not being applied, that is, how in this report you conclude that we have a good government that you support. It's completely vague and incomprehensible to me. Here's a thank you. I thank you for the work you're doing. I have to admit, I don't know how you see the results of your work, except sometimes someone reads your report and says it's good, but it doesn't apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99034	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99035	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will point only to a few of the facts mentioned in this Report of the State Audit, so the audit carried out by the state office once a year above the implementation of the state budget and which, according to the law, is required to deliver to the Croatian Assembly by 15 June of the current year for the previous year. We discussed this on the board last year at the sixth month, but here it is today before us in the Parliament. The audit should therefore include, in addition to an evaluation of the effectiveness and economic performance of the activities, it should also provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the objectives set or the objectives of certain financial transactions, programmes and projects. I have to admit, in this report, we haven't actually seen any evaluations of the effectiveness of this report. That's why I'm here and I'm pointing out two things, the ones I asked you in the replica. This is one recommendation on the health system, i.e. health institutions. So I'm going to point out once again that here are our fellow citizens. So, according to the Ministry of Finance, this is what I quote from your report for losses in business and delays in the settlement of the commitments made during 2013 and 2014 for the recovery of health institutions spent the state budget of around 4 and a half billion kuna for the recovery of HZZO almost 2 billion kuna in total, so 6 and a half billion kuna. From 2017 to 2020, for the settlement of commitments of 3.25 billion kuna, therefore to institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia 2.3 billion and institutions owned by counties of 900 million kuna. So, what I said from 2013 to 2020 to tackle the financial difficulties of the health care institution totaled the funds spent on the state budget of $9.75 billion. And according to the Ministry of Finance, the total liabilities for operating expenditure and the acquisition of non-financial assets and health institutions and HZZA at the end of 2020 amounted to nearly 12 and a half billion kuna. Here, as we have heard today, it is already 14 and a half billion kuna, and since health institutions have been missing for a number of years, certain financial resources are needed to finance their regular business, and despite the state budget's contributions, they are not reducing but the growth of the State Office for the Review of Opinions is that the Ministry of Health needs to implement appropriate reforms of the health system as soon as possible in order to achieve the rationalisation of the business and financial sustainability of that system. So here's what I've been quoting from this report as you yourself have said this has probably been happening for decades. We advocate this health reform, however, we see neither "R" nor "R" from the reforms, but in fact these debts and expenditures are actually increasing and increasing. And it's also said here that the Ministry of Finance has been at all on this finding, and this opinion has not been shown at all, so of all of your recommendations, it seems to me that this is the only one they haven't shown themselves to. The second thing I wanted to mention is that these concessions are the fact that when we talk about revisions of local self-government, the lack of that register of concessions is whether we miss them. Here you have listed an active concession agreement with the characteristics of the public private partnership that is the contract for the concession of Zagreb Airport. So it was amazing for me here that from 2016 to '20. have therefore not submitted any report on the implementation of the concession contract and have actually delivered it during the time of your audit. So here's your recommendation, so you order to regularly obtain these monitoring reports on the implementation of the obligations arising from the concession agreement. So we give someone in a concession some good and then we don't actually follow how that concession is executed or the state doesn't follow whether that concession is actually being carried out is scary. It is also surprising that the Ministry of Finance does not have documents to confirm the accuracy of the data on the borrowing of budgetary users. The data listed in the debt review of those therefore owned by the beneficiaries of the state budget are also incomplete. Is it also you order them to complete and put together that debt review in accordance with the rules? So these are some of the, some of the shortcomings, which is why here is a conditional opinion on this implementation of the budget. I will once again point out similar to colleagues, so the findings of the audits are referred to again I would say that Croatia simply cannot endure 556 cities and municipalities, 21 counties, we are not rich enough state to have 556 mayors, mayors, 21 mayors, Europe warns us about this year-to-year whether they are also warning experts and who have prepared works for decades, researching recommendations that should look like a territorial structure in Croatia. Instead of 556 cities and municipalities of about 120, 123 urban centers is whether, the number is about 100 to 125, but here I'm saying 30 years, no one is going to redecorate and reduce that number. I might just say for the end of the day that she finds state audits over local budgets, now I'm going to take a concrete example. So, the findings of state audits on the budgets of local self-government over the previous years can be specifically said because I was here twice and in the 2 mandates of the city council of Split, the state audit has repeatedly warned about the shortcomings in city property management. I would say that the new government has taken these remarks and recommendations as one basis and is now working on a new model of real estate management owned by the city. The new model, the new processes that will also be digitized in the most part, and therefore this new model will be in line with all the recommendations of good and responsible resource management and we hope that it will indeed serve as a model and example of good practice for all other units of local self-government. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99036	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Deputys Mrs. Rogosic and colleagues Kasum, respected colleagues and colleagues, so the HDZ Club will support this report, which the State Audit Office carried out to audit the state budget for 2020. In fact, we need to look into the context of what happened in 2020 and the conditions in which the state budget was otherwise exposed to and what it was exposed to. In 2020, positive movements and economic activities that have been in the past 5 years have been halted and there has been an 8% drop in GDP, which is primarily the cause of Covid pandemic, which is the biggest cause of the decline in goods and services exports of more than 25%. What's still like a negative, negative pandemic effect in '19. was exactly what the fall was, a slight drop in industrial production because we know the conditions for business and work themselves were completely different. However, when we look at the number movement and registered at the employment office, it was seen that the government measures taken were very spotless during that period that the unemployment rate was only 7.5%, so around 1.3% lower than the previous year. We also have to say that the total gross foreign debt was 82.4% of GDP, and when we look at how much total revenues were achieved, so of 163.6 billion, and the expenditures of 155.9 then we can notice that the total revenues were then reduced by about 6%. The expenditure was also growing for the reason that it was absolutely necessary to influence and maintain productivity, as well as jobs, so it was in that period until the end of '20. was hired and executed over 10.7 billion kuna of expenditure associated with the coronary epidemic, which was certainly an additional burden on the state budget, and for this reason we can say that the deficit was also greater. When we put this in context of the same expenditure on health care, then we can say that there has been an increase in HZZO transfer of more than 1.2 billion kuna and that is, with the additional needs needed to engage for and needs that occurred after the earthquake, so all of this has further affected business itself and the 2020 budget. So the total budget deficit was around 25.4 billion kuna or 6.8%. When we now observe and talk about the annual report itself, or the finding of a state audit, then we can say that when we look at 45 implementations which are also recommendations made by the State Audit Office, then two partially, 18 implementation procedures and recommendations have been made in the implementation process, and all the other 25 implementations have already been carried out. What is significant and what the State Auditor pointed out is that, among other things, because of the conditional opinion given, the fence was given, so this is also the recording of one of the points. These are receipts from loans which, 3 loans received from international financial institutions and which have been entered on general incomes and receipts instead of assigned receipts, therefore this did not affect the level of the deficit, so there was a real lack, but the booking was on the other hand. For the purpose of receiving as a second point, the repayment of loans, loans given which are not a specific group of sources of financing has been indicated and this has been demonstrated in a way that since the repayment of loans amounting to 126 million kunas have been recorded in another way, so they are realised at other sources, according to other sources of financing. So it didn't affect the height of the missing, either, but it was also recorded according to sources on the second cont. The third point relates to funding for the grant of financial support and to the non-refundable part of the housing loans, which are planned at the Croatian Defence Ministry, and are mostly shown in the context of expenditure on loans, rather than expenditure. Therefore, there is also a recommendation that these and such, such expenditure should therefore be shown in the context of expenditure, so it was not unrecorded but recorded in another way. The provision of the Budget Law also stipulates adoption, the Budget Act is prescribed to draw up a separate report on the implementation of the Public Debt Management Strategy and here the State Audit Office states that this is necessary in this way and to do as foreseen. It is also mentioned that exchange rate differences which have not been recorded in the context of expenditure which must be corrected and also potential obligations resulting from a guarantee agreement which must be otherwise recorded in order to make that report clear. All of this is the Ministry of Finance has committed and plans to implement the adoption of exactly the new law that we have passed with 1.1 is in application of 2022, so all of these shortcomings that the State Audit Office has stated are planned precisely with this new Budget and Drafting Act and the instructions that will be in line with this should actually be removed. Therefore, all that the State Office for Auditing and Recommends and notes that, that it is not sufficiently clear and transparent enough is taken into account when and should be incorporated into certain regulations or laws which must be, not only for the state budget but the Budget Act is then reflected on all units of local and regional self-government and therefore gives a complete picture of the arrangements of the system which is indeed constantly sought and requested to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99038	Thank you. Am I right to see that my colleague Brumnic has raised a breach of his rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99039	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured an officer. 232. when you let the pay phone talk for five minutes practically about something that wasn't at all the subject of this. In fact, you talked about “what the government has done successfully. ” And I would withdraw this violation of the Rules of Procedure if you had made any connection in this second part between those first five minutes and the actual report, but you didn't, so I think the chairman is incorrect. to warn others when they are away from the topic [[Intruder Reiner: Good.]] I am 232. [[Intruder Reiner: But you did not even call for an article.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99040	You haven't called.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99041	At first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99042	And other than that, it was a typical replica where you tell your colleague that she was saying something, and I let people talk about everything and everything, especially under the last point. So, of course, the Rules of Procedure are not injured, you get a warning. Your colleague Simičević is still insisting on hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99043	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an injured ankle. In 238, a respected colleague insults and demeans the MP for giving an opinion, and as far as I know about his opinion, it is not possible to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99044	Okay, that's why he got a warning, and I'm giving you a warning because there was no reason for that breach of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative will now speak, and forgive me on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Boris Lalovac will now speak. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputy chief state auditor with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before today, we have a report on the audit carried out on the implementation of the State budget 2020. and before maybe just my opening debates two technical perhaps recommendations for the next time, to make this debate more current, is the first report there is legal when it comes to parliament, so it came to 15.6.2021, and we are discussing today. It's a failure of the assembly, it has nothing to do with anyone else, we're here discussing 23.3 today, nine months after it is. It would be good if we had already given the order to the legal state office and kept them delivered by that deadline, then we are non-chalantly acting here, so we don't discuss that report for nine months. I think it would be correct if we gave deadlines to everyone, that we too had those deadlines for ourselves here to get in the debate to make the debate more current. Here's one objection here in the assembly to make this debate on one side more quality when we're already giving someone deadlines so that these deadlines will also apply to the assembly. On the other hand, one recommendation is perhaps for the future and to think about it, here it gives the State Audit Office an opinion on how the state budget is drawn up and implemented. It would be good here if someone from the government could say something, so we've mended something, something we're not to hear and another opinion not only of us as representatives here to see that maybe these are some of the recommendations here that are today in 2022. I've already been corrected. Well, it's not clear to me that the government is not allowed to speak here to say, not to defend the government now, but when there are tomorrow some governments, however they want, but that if they give an opinion to the Ministry of Finance or the government that someone in them says we've fixed it, we haven't fixed it. It doesn't matter what it says here, but in the debate when it comes to today, it's 2022. I think it'd be a better debate, so maybe there's some things we're talking about that's been fixed for a long time, so I'm talking about. And especially when everything is late and especially since they are very specific to this knowledge, these are very technical and specific knowledge that we get in writing that I believe in and in the Ministry of Finance is doing a small number of people and this is also audited by a small number of people in the DRU. This is not some general act where everyone here is therefore a very specific area and interpretation and even possibly a debate between given it is written on a single conto of some other conto etc. gave it corrected, etc. Otherwise, there are expert discussions in the accounting section of the people who do this. So here it's so that in that part of my recommendation for the future that someone might be able to talk and I know it is, but let's agree on everything that we actually say here that we can agree that someone and the proposing's representative says there's a report on because it would actually be some kind of conflict of those opinions between the DUR and the Government to say if they've been working on it already and to fix it. These are kind of two and kind of technical in that part of the grudge to make it a more quality debate. We can discuss these details here today, as they say, whether something is written on one continent or on another, whether the sources of funding are mixed, etc. impacted the deficit, did not affect the deficit, etc. So these are saying very specific... But what matters is, I don't know what to hear, what EUROSTAT thinks about this opinion means it would be good, too. Look, this is one thing that DUR thinks, we're talking about whether or not the budget deficit is correct here. There would be an opinion I don't know how now in that part of it is yet this opinion of you affects whether the state of the state budget is realistically shown. So when you give some unconditional or conditional opinion to the state budget that some of the revenues are not well shown, or some of the expenditures are not properly shown, it implies that the state-of-the-art business books or the finance ministry is not realistic and it comes out of this tall home, and on the other hand someone in EUROSTAT is looking at it and saying ha, ha what they are doing there is good, it's not good. It would be good to hear some kind of their opinions throughout that precisely for the credibility of all... data. You're here saying that or not, so I'm saying maybe in the future that we're thinking that when Eurostat publishes any opinions, we think that it's been through all of this and control and your control and their control, and yet that these data that are still here is still credible. And they are also important because of the borrowing on the financial market or in order to receive a certain price of capital, in order to obtain the credibility of how credible data are of a particular country, data, financial data. Here are actually, what worries me more is that two things are, in fact, you said it yourself. Health status. We hide all the time, cover up all these years we pay through 10, 10 years it's now from 2013 to 2020. 10 billion more has been paid, and then there's something that has failed, something has arrived, etc., what actually once Minister Maric is actually in the debate itself, we need here in the high home to open a completely different debate about the state of financial and claims and obligations in the health system. I think that would be realistic. How many people in Croatia pay health care, how many people use health care, I think we simply say in a very transparent way what it is, because this is how unfortunately all the time it's been declared a health care system as some consumer who spends his time doing nothing but spending. And that's a bad message, that's a bad message. All the time we've been here, all we've been saying is that they're some kind of losers, and they're people who work in the health system. Well, I work in the health system, so I'd say my people what you're talking about, we kill each other here, we work etc. As much as we want to, and we hear all the time that we're some kind of losers, that we're doing bad things, that we're doing irregularities, that's all. I mean, he doesn't understand why it shouldn't, very openly say my people are so, so much so, so open to ourselves, so much it costs, so much that people pay, so much that and to make a review of the health system and then watch your State Audit report, I think you could get a state budget might get an unconditional opinion. Because I think that your biggest part is because some, some debts, something is not shown so now you can't give an unconditional opinion because it's some kind of unrecorded income there, etc., and you care about something like this and accounting we're doing like this, and just all the time in all the reports of the State Audit Office, the ministries are the only ones that are the problem, they're the problem and they're all great just that they're gone. And I don't think that's good for us here. We are not well here, and through this opinion of the State Audit Office, etc. Because there are always some conditional opinions that we simply say, underline what the health system is, how much it receives, how much it spends, how much they're that we just get, and then we tell my people we can't lie to ourselves, right? If a million people are paying, and 4 million spends we have to have that, we have that system. And then we can't expect them to be bad, etc., they get and we transfer them, we transfer all the burden to them, because we don't give them enough money for that part. And we keep saying that all the time, through all the reports through all sorts of debates, etc. Yeah. It's very clear that it needs to be stripped. So the system of accounting and follow-up to me, the Ministry of Finance, regardless of this, is now very well run by the system, it's hard to run, so very well, if there are any irregularities, it should be looked at by the trend. There's always a trend. So he doesn't look at it for a year, there's a lot of things that can happen in one year, but when you look at the State Audit Office looking at the trend, there are recommendations, they've adopted them, they've made a recommendation, so you're always looking at the trend. There's another system that's problematic. It's a system of accounting of local units, yes. It's problematic, we've all opened up here because there's such a wide system and control and audit, etc. This is a reporting system but it materially totals all that money does not mean that on budget deficits etc. And there's a third system that's a health care system that's being pushed all the time here through some kind of minuses of some kind of irregularity, but it should actually be completely isolated, realistic and tell people my own so paid, so much we had, and we need to make up for the difference from these, these and those sources. And unfortunately, he stops doing more pulsism, right? Health costs, health care has its price and that citizens know how many people pay it, how much the system costs and make one quality debate about the whole system. And we, when we're discussing here and the budget, are mostly just the minister who's just saying I would but this other one wouldn't, etc., etc. So unfortunately we're here in all these discussions, and we should focus on what's concrete and then separate and then think that in the future these reports would get A better opinion, and we'd have a better discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99046	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99047	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club that, as in recent years, we are satisfied with the quality of the report and the findings of the State Audit and because of the structure, the clarity of the text that allows us who we are in this area to actually follow and understand what the problems are and what the recommendations are. I'm going to isolate a few of the things that have been mentioned in this report, which we consider important because we've been warning about them for years. One of the things I wanted to point out was the State Audit notice on how to finance APN's loans. Therefore, the State Audit Office recommended that when drawing up the state budget and controlling the financial plans of the budget users, it should take into account that the financial plan of the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Finance of expenditure and expenditure on socially encouraged housing is planned for neutral assigned revenue from the previous years and from the current year and is achieved in the current year, and in case these funds are not sufficient, then it is only then to go to financing from the general revenues and receipts of the state budget. However, given that, of course, you viewed it as a financial-accounting category, I wanted to say something about the actual purpose of such a cost of the state budget. So 4500 people will be re-evaluated and now re-applyed for housing subsidies. These subsidies consist of the fact that the state is actually subsidising interest on credit, namely such subsidies and the purchase of dwellings, therefore, subsidized by this expenditure, in fact by the state budget, can only be achieved by those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are creditworthy. Thus, we eliminate from the possibility of buying an apartment by subsidising the state all those who are not creditworthy, and these are also the ones who need the most help in buying the first real estate. So, all those who work seasonally, who work occasionally, who do insecure jobs or who work for minimum wages that we also have more than 40,000 in Croatia, we have excluded such a measure. So, so far, more than 475 million kuna has been spent, spent, therefore paid, but the state has committed itself to significantly more because it's a cost that goes on, I think for the first 5 years it seems to subsidize that interest, so we're going to give hundreds of millions of kunas in fact to the interest-subsidisation banks, while spending all citizens' money to subsidise interest to those who can get the credit, not to those who actually need the help in housing or buying the first real estate according to the social category. It's not all, it's not the only problem with the efficiency of spending these funds, the biggest problem is that you're money too don't get angry, you could take and burn. The effect would be the same. Because the CNB said, because all the owners of the real estate agency have been telling you for years, that because of the seasonal character of that tender you have twice a year, there is a significant increase in real estate prices just before the market tender, so the tender raises real estate prices by 10 and more percent, and then all of this we subsidize, actually goes into the wind or goes into the pockets of real estate sellers who manage to sell their real estate by 10% more price than they would have done without having that competition. It's literally taken money and burned them. So, in the end, we didn't help these people because they singled out a bigger loan because the apartment cost them more but who did we help? Banks, because they count on such an annual income, so they don't have to compete with each other in reducing interest rates excessively, more or less, we see that they are the same for housing loans and we helped the owners of the property that sold them and we took hundreds of millions of kunas from the state budget that we could invest in housing for public long-term rent, not for sale, so those who are the most vulnerable in terms of housing would really help because they could rent an apartment not at 3 m. So someone kicks you out, but at 20 years at a price that's at least 30, 40% lower than the market price, so that people can actually have a roof over their heads. But no, we're still investing in this completely inefficient measure. Furthermore, the second thing I wanted to raise is the issue of European funds, so according to the Ministry of Finance, the National Fund's Jobs Sector from 2014 to the end of 2020, from the ESI Funds, in the name of advances and reimbursements for projects under the 4 operational programmes, 4.7 billion euros were received, which is 44.6% of the funds available for this financial period, a slightly smaller percentage of which also applies to certified funds, so those costs that have passed all the control levels and have been certified by the European Commission. So at the end of the programming period, of course projects can be implemented by 2023, but we are 2020, so 3 years before, total closure and the deadline when all the money must be spent, below 50% spent and certified costs, and it is not good and it is a sign of alarm. Of course, it's always spent most in recent years, but the question is whether or not it's going to be certified or recognized, or how much we're actually going to lose or return that we're going to have to make. And here's another one of the things in this report that we're certainly worried about. The third thing I want to point out and that has been bothering us for years, which is a question of efficiency and financial viability of the way in which concessions are managed. Therefore, in this report, for 2020 under the income of non-financial assets, concession fees are shown in the amount of 223 million kuna. This applies only to the revenues of the state budget, these are not, of course, the total revenues of the concession because they are shared between units of local self-government some, yes, county, and then finally and state. However, when we look at the structure of our concessions, on 31.12.2020, we had a total of 6430 active contracts in the concession register. This was significantly less than a year ago because there was actually an elimination of these health concessions that had the highest number of contracts. It remains the largest number of contracts related to performing in health activities, then to the mining area 22.67%. However, when we look at the analysis of total revenues, so the total revenues from concessions were 827, 8, I'm a little bit, I don't see well, we think 827 million kuna, so this applies to all levels, units of local self-government and state and county, and what's really important for us is to point out what structure, where we're actually losing money. Water concessions, water exploitation concessions, when you see the number of concessions, and when you see revenues, 11 million kunas, 11 million kunas. We get 30 grand on average under the concession contract for water well-being. On the marine side, the average is 90 thousand kuna a year. We are the most important resources, the greatest wealth we have, and that should remain permanent and that should remain with our children, we give to our grandchildren, don't be angry but to our invaluableness. And so this is more expensive pie than tepsia, the way you manage concessions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99048	Now we're going to individual debates, so they're going to speak to respected representative Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99049	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed auditor. I'll look back on part of the report that specifically refers to health costs. I see that many of these costs have fallen into the eyes, because, as with any debate on the budget, budget rebalancing, and here is budget implementation, we end up all staying together with the question of how much health care costs. How much does it cost, who pays, right? The first thing we see from the report is that health expenditures amounted to over 5 billion in total, and these 5 billion can be divided into the part that is provided in the budget under two laws, and it amounted to in 2020, 3 billion and 800, while the second part of the expenditure goes to help hospitals, and it amounted to about a billion and 340 thousand. So this first part of the expenditure transferred to HZZO under the law, so we're talking about the Mandatory and Voluntary Health Insurance Act, it's planned in the 2020 budget of 2 billion and 600 million, and then it's rebalanced for an additional billion and 200, and so we came to our final figure. The Ministry of Health neither for 2020 nor for the years before that, nor for the bogs, nor for that year thereafter, gives a clear and transparent explanation of how these calculations are coming. So 2 billion and 600 were estimated, and then added another billion. So it's completely staying unclear even though it's constantly wondering why it counts. Here's what's unclear, and on the basis of which it's calculated that this year we have 6 billion less in health care, so we'll probably add to the rebalances again, but it's still going to be unclear how, who and why does that count. The second thing that is the constant that the revision points to is that each year HZZO, based on these two laws voted by this House, is that HZZO itself calculates how much they should be transferred. And that amount is regular, every year higher than what they are given. And not that it was bigger, but here for 2020 was more than a billion they calculated more than they eventually got, and in some previous years there was this difference that was even more dramatic. The State Audit itself has been seeking for years, but not only the State Audit, but also the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to arrange the Mandatory Insurance Act. To make it clear how the costs are calculated. And if we could do better, we'd have better predictions of our future expenses. To better run that health system. Since 2015, the ministry has reportedly been preparing changes and amendments to the law but we haven't seen it yet, so we still don't know who drinks, how much he pays, how much it costs us all. This is the key problem of the health system, which is what a colleague of Lalovac was talking about among other things. As for the second part of the expenditure, so the part given to hospital rehabilitation facilities, so first and foremost to drug suppliers and medical suppliers, according to the Ministry of Finance from 2013 to 2020, spent a total of 10 billion on the recovery. So it's a huge amount of money, and the debts are not that they're not recovered, but they've deepened. So we can't ask ourselves, since it's public money, how is it possible at all, and I'm going to repeat that you have here in the conflict of the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Finance, who last year quite nervously and frustratedly pointed out at a committee meeting that nobody thought was filming it, that it's unsustainable, and that it's impossible, and that when we settle these debts to hospitals, we don't resuscitate it from some colorful balloon, but we're re rescheduling the deficit. And how long can it go like that? And thirdly, I also agree with the fact that we, as health workers, listen all the time about being a bottomless hole, just creating debts, and no one is wondering if maybe the key to who this system is leading and how it is managed and how transparently it is managed by finances in the system. Here's what I don't think we should talk about at all, except for what's certain, which some of your ministers agree on, that urgent and complete reform is needed, but the HDZ hasn't spent in 30 years, so I'm skeptical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99050	The next will be a debate between respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99051	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, as I have said to certain parts I will look back at in an individual debate, because simply this report is so high-quality, essentially done and extensively, and it is a pity, and I am sorry that this debate did not instigate a little greater interest with fellow MPs, because it really needs to be appreciated the work of the State auditors who do it very well from year to year and give us reports that point to some things that we all know a lot and we talk a lot about, but still when the State Audit as an official institution shows it and puts it in their report then it gets weight. Let's say one element is APN's subsidies that started again now on Monday, and that notorious APN has also been stuck with the European eye institutions, and the State's audit again in the context of neutralized dedicated receipts. And in fact, we have this model that creates a real-estate balloon that benefits bankers and construction companies, if we know it's designed, created and conditioned by HNS, then we don't need to be surprised. I asked in the replica the respected deputy state auditor means about the different booking of wages in nature, and then the stock, then the revaluation of non-financial assets specifically real estate, then the financial assets, shares in the share of the principal, some harmonize them at the end of the year with market value, some not. In response, you told me that in principle it does not change everything, but if it means that someone is doing a revaluation, and someone is not, if we consider that financial assets, or shares, are estimated at market value and someone is not estimating them in market terms, it certainly affects that we have a credible report. And that basically leads to this kind of so-called. Creative accounting, because in fact we still lack these sublegal acts, and it's really unclear why some things aren't detailed in order for everyone to show, all of the budget users are even because both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side we have an unequal display according to the report you made. My colleague Kekin was talking about the segment of health, and I'm not going to look back too much on that. The fact is that this health hole is growing year after year, now it's like a pandemic, so there's a pandemic, but from 2013 to 2020 it's 10 billion kunas means it's paid to get rid of it, and the fact is that there's not enough for the regular functioning of the health system from year to year. And that reform we've been waiting for, some have seen it. Minister Maric says he didn't even see her, but what is crucial to us is that we lack 6,000 healthcare professionals, which are nurses, which is what doctors, specialists, general practitioners, and that's the fact. Our system of health functions exclusively and thanks only to our healthcare professionals and we must do something about it before the whole system collapses because this chronic lack of financial resources. The report also shows that some budget users are quite relaxed, and I would even dare to say so, because the data do not contain the imaginary type of borrowing, the currency in which borrowing is agreed, the rate of interest and the maturity of the debt payment. So it's not some irrelevant information. Why these key information has been forgotten to record this is quite interesting. It also raises the real question when we get a report on how credible it is, so if we have a whole series of these data that are being recorded in a way that is not uniform for all budget users. And, of course, the instructions are ultimately, some orders are whether it is a recommendation, and it is interesting that since 2013, we have, for example, been in the phase of the adoption of a regulation on how to assess and approve investment projects, for example. And we have to ask ourselves a question, so how is it that investment projects are approved at all if this issue has not been settled properly since 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99052	Thank you. The esteemed representative Bencic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99053	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Vucimilovic, I wanted to see what your attitude is about these things that I pointed out in my speech, which is a matter of concession. So you saw the total revenue of the concession budget. However, I went to check the 2020 concessions report and saw that, for example, for 354 water concessions, we had a total of 11 million kunas of revenue. It seems to me that these water bottles may be used by the Parliament more than the state earns on concessions it gives to fill these vials and other vials. So, I'm curious to know if you think we should continue such a policy concession on aquatic goods, or whether we should use water goods in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99054	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99055	Thank you, dear colleague Bencic. It's not just water good, it's there and it's complete meaning all the quarrys, so mineral wealth, etc. Oil, gas. When you have a minister who is in charge of this resort, who says that nothing is Croatian, then of course you can't expect that amount that is embarrassingly low from about 220 million kunas to be charged for concessions to be higher. If you add to that that raw oil, which is 25% of our needs, is being exported to Hungary where the petrol is 9 kuna and 17, and here we are very cheap. But that's what you know by the system, you raise it to 20 kunas and you drop it to 15, so now, that's a big bargain. So there are still 12 kunas per litre of elevators that are extremely large and 30% more than in Hungary, for example, where Croatian oil is processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99056	Dear representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99057	Ladies and gentlemen, once this audit report is read, everyone is asking themselves if he could use the time of that reading more wisely. This report is completely useless. There is obviously a mental restriction in responsible persons in certain public services, especially in supervisory bodies, who consider their role to be ironing i.e. to hide irregularities of government officials and institutions that lead them. This misrepresentation of obligations, rights and democratic social order is one of the key problems in today's Croatia, because in functional democratic systems, the supervisory authorities are watching for example. executive power, because they exist and are therefore paid by taxpayers, they must of course not hide irregularities. Given the result of the work of the State Audit that we are discussing here, we can conclude that Croatia is not required for the State Review at all. We can freely abolish it because this revision creates only a cost and Croatian citizens have no use for it, because this report describes where all the state spends money, it is simply a copy-pass of the state budget and that is why it is useless for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian Parliament. Before I state what we should have read in this report, but there is no such report, I will give an example of the work of state audits in the EU, i.e. which should be done by the State Audit. That's how it is, for example. German State Audit... A year and a half ago, she concluded that the management of the Deutsche Bank State Railways had unlawfully paid advisory fees to former managers and thus forced the Supervisory Board to terminate these contracts and to pay off these managers to pay back the money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, several months ago, a special report warned that the Ministry of Health was buying pandemic-related protective masks and thus prompted investigations by the State's Attorney's Office following arrests of individual officials throughout Germany. The State audit also assessed whether individual ministers or officials used official travel as alibis for private excursions etc. Ladies and gentlemen, from the State Audit, where is your information that the concession fee for the project in Kutarim, which was issued by the newly appointed Minister of Paladin, is ridiculously low and illegal and that the contract is contrary to the interests of the state of Croatia? Where's your report of irregularities in the Brodotrogir cases? Where's your HH report and how you spend money in them? As is known, this mastodont and loser, entrenched members of the family of high-paying powerful men such as the wife of Chief State Inspector Andrija Mikulić. But what is most absurd, these railways finance a variety of media conferences, to God's sake for advertising, and as we know, HZ has no competition, you can't ride a train in Croatia unless you're driving a HZ. In addition, EU subsidy rules are also violated. Where is the INA-Mol arbitration report that has cost Croatia 200 million kuna so far, in which Croatia has paid self-called experts and their expertise has resulted in the loss of all disputes? Where is your report on the fact that the former Economy Minister Horvat, together with Pupovac and Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, is illegally sharing incentives? After all, where is your report on the purchase of software at the EU Ministry of Funds that has been paid four times the actual value of this software itself? The state audit established by the Croatian Parliament with the task of controlling on behalf of Croatian citizens the proper spending of their funds, does not do the job but irons the abuse of state institutions and their criminal treatment of public goods. I would like to inform the Chief Auditor Ivan Klesic if someone is making it impossible for you to do what the law tells you to do, then be dignified, resign and tell who is making you impossible. The way you presented the report on the spending of the state budget does not apply to the paper in which it is printed. Croatian citizens demand that everyone do their job for which they are paid and you do not do that job. But be assured that there are many of us in Croatia who will introduce a culture of responsibility in the country of Croatia and arrange our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99058	The replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99059	Thank you very much. In Croatia, we have five problems, all five can be listed in one sentence, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. I have an example of where the State's review of shipbuilding, the funds that were purposely approved, it's about billions and Brodosplit and Brodotrogir, I don't know everything about it, the State's audit has listed and directed to state institutions, to law enforcement, to question what the State's Attorney's Office is doing, nothing. I'm a witness, I've read one of the reports that they've been non-transparently spending money that was secured for the development of shipbuilding. At the same time, shipbuilding was destroyed, money was not invested in ships, but who knows where both the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary did absolutely nothing. About that finding, you've been critical of the audit, absolutely, if necessary, critical but I'm saying you don't do institutions your job... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99060	Thank you, esteemed representative Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99061	Thanks, buddy Bull. Yes, Croatia has many problems but I would like to bring these problems down to one denominator and that is the Croatian government. The Martians didn't corrupt us and put the judiciary completely out of office. The Martians didn't completely corrupt the media. That's what the current government of Andrej Plenkovic did. And let's be very clear and transparent, there's no difference between HDZ, SDP and all their pillows that help them all these years in what we're looking at today as a result. The state audit gave a report in its own time on the criminal conversion and privatisation of Croatia's insurance. What happened? Nothing. That fellow Bulj, the DORH does absolutely nothing for which it has not received a warrant from the Prime Minister we have seen on many cases that go through the media every day, but we will change that. You know how? Once we remove them from their position of power. We'll arrange Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99062	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99063	Here's a parliamentary representative I've been for five, six years. Five, six means review reports I've always explained. But I'll always start at one point. The state audit, which means that part of the jobs described this year were in Sinj City for 2020. I expect it to be fair, and I've already looked at it. There's now... where he has to make certain objections and I believe that the State Audit is doing what he's doing, I've noticed a shipbuilding here. [[You don't understand.]] So money was given as dedicated money for the production of ships, and we know what shipbuilding was in Croatia. The main developmental branch. Only from Dalmatinska Zagora, from my Sinj went 60 buses before,... 20 years in a Split square. [[You don't understand.]] Now it's going I don't know, two and a half vans. So the judiciary is the key to the problem. We can discuss everything. It is a day - night, but the fact is that the judiciary has not done its job on those irregularities that we see. Of course we mentioned here, here's a colleague a little while ago, so I as mayor can feel what kind of justice it is. Never in Sinj City was the State Inspectorate. Never. Since I came to power, I think I've run Sinya City one 15, 20 times. The state inspectors are sitting there. They're not the wrong people. It made them on the phone. I'm telling you that institutions only work because I don't belong to a party in power. Only. I wasn't even hard on the city's employees who, in the city administration, boycotted me as headmaster... I wasn't sharp. [[You don't understand.]] I understand the frustration of people when they lose the election, because they think they're being appointed, that you're giving to God. When they have a ruling party card that they give God that they have to manage that chair. Perhaps they thought here was a textile worker who appeared though and an officer of the professional Croatian army, but as he did not familyly his back ground that he ruled. They have to rule, and of course they didn't accept me, and that's sad, isn't it? I didn't even look at the party's card on the appointment V.D. The director absolutely, but I accepted all these people who want to work in the public administration. However, about the revision when I speak, the revision is what does its part of the work with the capacities they have and the jobs they have. The question is, what does that end with irregularities? That's always the question. I am obviously interested in having you answer publicly now whether you are all the irregularities that are punishable to local self-government, state budget, report it to the competent institutions. And where are we now? You guys do a huge job. What are the capacities, the audit I have no idea of human, financial, material, and I don't know all of them. Whether that's enough or not, I can't get into it. Someone else knows that. But the fact that in Croatia, the problem of the judiciary and politically supervised institutions is delegated and driven to the remote by political key is a fact. I don't have a problem with the inspectorate coming. Yes, of course. He's written me 50 fines so far. I'm not even talking about Covid's passports... It's a world-class scam. [[You don't understand.]] I think 100 thousand kunas just gave me a ticket. Thank God, here in the courts so far, they're refusing to do anything, no matter what law has been discussed here, what the government must have... Spend the day on employees. [[You don't understand.]] So as far as the review is concerned, what I noticed when I was looking at certain things here I mentioned the shipbuilding audits had done their job and said that the funds were being spent untransparently. The fact is that several billion kunas were done, several billion kunas. Of course, what colleagues mention before we have to mention energy. However, someone has passed a law on incentives for wind power plants, illegalities, lobbyings that have been well mentioned, we have you from HDZ, so even from the government we've seen some of you translate. However, Milosevic must not be touched because Pupovac says naturally that he is setting up SDSS operations non-transparently because Pupovac has dug everyone around him up. So Milosevic does not, he must not be called to the authorities to say. He is obliged to violate the constitution and set up his SDSS, not for the people of Serbian nationality... It's SDSS's business. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99064	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99065	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, I agree with you that auditors do their job truly professionally. And I'm reading those reports, and I'm reading in the State budget, and I see that I'm missing some things, but I see that the auditors don't really miss anything. But you asked the right question what happens after the State Audit? What's the DORH doing? What the judiciary is doing, and if the audit is already doing its job right, then what happens is you've set a very good example where some people end up in prison for the same thing, and some like Vice President Milosevic can't even be handed over to them, let alone bring them in, let alone run something. And as long as we have those two categories where some are privileged and some aren't difficult and the judiciary can do anything if some simply can't be touched.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99066	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99067	Well, I guess here's what I'd say is that we should step up the State Audit. I repeat, here I am, and I became mayor eight months ago. It was the State Audit. There are many problems, irregularities, but it is very important to say that it is necessary to strengthen the audit to do its task thoroughly, to point to irregularities that need to be corrected, corrected, and what is punishable, what is harmful, what is... Of course I need to process, and these things I'm interested in, I've asked you to do the better, the more thoroughly, regardless of all the problems they have in the city administration, which I have here with these problems that I've encountered in the city administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But never mind, next year when they come to me, if they come to me, I'll ask that as high-quality and thorough as possible for me as mayor and responsible person. But it's always a question of all the questions why not Milosevic without someone else from the SDSS. Is the Pod that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99068	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99069	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Here I will quote to my colleague Vucilović, she said I quote: "A very professional and responsible audit." And then we had another colleague who said the same thing, and I quote, "a useless pile of paper." Now, I'm asking you if it's possible that I can talk about the same thing in such a way here people in the Parliament and if it's correct, you're the same person, the head of an institution, whether it's correct to talk about the Deputy State Audition in such a way, and we know that here we can really read everything that's important. Now I'm not going outside of this paper, and we can, on some other occasion, talk about where it's concerned, who should have continued on this State Audit report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99070	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99071	I also said on many occasions, and while I was not in charge, I was talking about the State Audit so that the tribal would even strengthen the financial and capacity of their people, their potential to strengthen so that all irregularities were better seen and removed of course. However, here you are... what's punishable and what's noticed the audit, what's done the damage to the budget, it just didn't work out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I can't go there personally, I don't know I can't go into details, I'm not an expert. But what I noticed, I noticed from the State Audit report that I had in my hands here, so I noticed, and it's in Brodotrogir and Brodosplit, I don't know all these means of purpose. So once again I would say that the issue of institutions, that pile of paper will be if nothing is done and nothing is corrected, nothing is fixed, but it is not the fault of those who did the report but it is the guilt of everyone else, so even us if this is the only thing we eat and we don't support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99072	Thank you. She will now speak to her respected representative, Ankica Zmaic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99073	Dear Vice President, the respected deputy chief state auditor with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us today, the report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 carried out by the audit, i.e. the State Audit Office, carried out in accordance with the legal provisions during the period from 11 January to 31 May 2020. The purpose of the audit was to verify whether the annual report for 2020 was drawn up by all the specifics and the prescribed reporting framework in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions and our National Law on the State Office for Audit and to verify the full and accurate statement of data in the Annual Report for 2020, the planning and implementation of the State budget, the achievement of revenue and receipts and expenditures in accordance with the state budget, the borrowing and issuing of guarantees, and the approval of funds from the budget and to examine the organisation and management of the accounting of the state budget. Based on the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, the State Audit Office identified irregularities and failures in the area of preparation, i.e. the planning of the implementation of the State budget, the accounting framework, reporting, the area of income, the financing of state guarantees, and the system of supervision of budgetary resources and the latter, the State Audit Office gave or expressed its conditional opinion on the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, with all the tasks and recommendations that we can see in the report itself. The content of the report consists of the reasons and the facts for which the conditional opinion is expressed. Therefore, it is prescribed when a conditional opinion is given or expressed, which is where there is a doubt of one or more positions in financial reports which is significant but is not decisive to understand financial reports, or if business has not been carried out to a lesser extent in accordance with the applicable regulations. The conditional opinion points to unconditional opinion but also to a clear emphasis on the reasons for which the conditional opinion is given. We are all aware and we know that in 2020 there was a year of covid-19 pandemic and yet we have achieved a state budget of about 131 and a half, about 131 and a half billion kuna. Now, if there are any irregularities, more or less, that will be removed in the next period. We see from the report that the Ministry of Finance has been shown to have orders and recommendations in areas and has already addressed certain shortcomings and irregularities and implemented certain recommendations or are all under way. As I have already said, much of the failure and irregularities are due to the lack of compliance with the legal provisions and regulations, which will be passed by passing a new law that we passed in 2021 and abolishing the Budget Act. I believe that the orders and recommendations that the State Audit has made and the proposal will contribute to a more transparent and efficient use and availability by means of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99074	Let's finish. The first club of representatives is HDZ, respected representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99075	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues before us is the report of the revision for the implementation of the state budget for 2020, which has been an extremely challenging year. It's the first year we had Covid. That's the year we had both earthquakes. Let us not forget the years in which we had and the Croatian Presidency will be very important because it has a reflection on the budget. But it is the same year that comes after 3 years of surplus of the state budget in the first term of Andrej Plenkovic. It is also the year of Croatia's entry into the phase II course mechanism, the II and ERM II course mechanism which has also enabled us 2 billion euros in SWAP credit, i.e. already in the spring of 2020. The European Central Bank gives us 2 billion euros before entering the exchange mechanism, and Croatia... 15 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the year in which negotiations were concluded on the multiannual financial framework of the standard EU funds, but the year in which it was agreed, a national recovery programme was programmed. 750 billion euros in the recovery programme, where for the first time in Brussels, the European Commission is in charge of all Member States in response to the crisis. In line with this implementation of the budget, and this fellow Brumnic absolutely disagrees and is an unwarranted criticism that counterpart Peric was not talking about the topic because the budget is a reflection of government policies. And what it says in the budget is related to policy implementation, and if you interpret budget revision, then you also interpret government policies. And government policies, and so if you're talking about budget implementation, are you saying whether the government was successful or not in implementing its policies? The deputy state auditor herself said that this was not an assessment of individual bodies that each body had its own assessment but also that all these challenges that I mentioned led to the first time that the budget deficit was 25 billion kuna and 6.2% of GDP, that in this report 45 recommendations had already been made 18, not 25 were implemented, 2 in part and 18 in the process. Thus, the law that we have passed in this home since 1.1. this year most of these recommendations have been adopted, which means that we are just listening to signals that come and recommendations from the DUR and that what I asked in the replica is extremely important that they have the capacity to study and watch all these reports, and the deputy has said enough how much it takes for those auditors who come into the system to learn. The conditional opinion is mostly as far as we can see from the misrepresenting of the terms of different credits which the technical question did not affect the deficit, and the results in 2020 are that when we look at the crisis that we had in 2008 we were almost a decade out of it and when we look at what it meant for membership in the Union where the crisis started in 2020 in the year and a half we came to pre-crisis GDP and that, regardless of what was such a major deficit we managed to keep credit ratings that they were stable, Standard & Puoors confirmed the investment rating and declared it stable precisely for entry as one of the main elements in the euro area from 1.1 next year. Therefore, the government has clearly shown that it is responsible for dealing with public finances, the recommendations that DUR made have been adopted, and the HDZ Club will, of course, support this report and everything we heard in the debate, I believe that the DUR will continue to implement in its work as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99076	The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will now speak finally on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99077	Thank you very much. I'd just like to say that he's actually here and he's not a reflection of the budget. This audit has given meaning of its opinion on either illegality or any failures within this budget. And about the success of the budget here, there's no question of a successful budget, what a successful budget, so you won't judge whether it's reasonable to judge what you've said well at the code and there you were right, in the report on the budget. When reports are made and when we see an item, plans are reached. But I would say here a key sentence and a very important sentence, so we mention the euro zone, entering the euro zone progress, I don't know a good credit rating, we all mention it, but right now in this situation in the state and this climate independent of this audit that we are in, we have to work most to stop inflation, prices and work on self-sufficiency. What about the incentives? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Here I'm always interested in incentives, always talking about incentives in agriculture, the more money we give in agriculture, the less production we do. That's amazing. And it's not successful then if we give too much money into incentives, not too much, I, they triangulate more, but what are the results and effects in agriculture. Well, by the time we were 10 years ago, we had 64,000 opgs dealing with agriculture. The dairy, which was used in dairy products, we've now burned below 5,000. So that self-sufficientness is very important, and these incentives, that revision, I'm very interested in what's up with the incentives. I mentioned shipbuilding, but surely in agriculture and this about my fellow Milosevic that it must not even be mentioned, it must not be mentioned because Pupovac said it was his legitimate right to fight for the people of the SDSS to get certain incentives, support. That's legally said by your coalition partner Milorad Pupovac from the SDSS. As long as your party colleagues are in custody, you can't even look at him. You can't look at him. There's a problem. The problem is inequality or inequality in practice. I don't speak or condemn anyone, but the fact is that Pupov's men are protected. It's a fact they're absolutely protected. You're even bringing in your colleagues from HDZ. It's not funny, it's a fact the bud said no and it's over. No, you can't touch it, look. He dug you up. It's a problem, and the people see it. But this is not a question of my relationship that I hate national minorities. No, I don't. However, I live with these people, share the same fate in my village, we have the same problems when there is no electricity... our laborer with my neighbour of Serbian nationality,... [[You don't understand.]] are all Croatian citizens deserved means the most part so there is no problem with that at all. [[You don't understand.]] But what Milorad is doing to you, it has nothing to do with the rule of law. It has nothing to do with the rule of law. This isn't a question... He's a theater man, I guess that's his profession, too. He'd almost cry here right now. [[You don't understand.]] He's... Come and cry. [[You don't understand.]] What are you going to do, an orphan, come to the stage and pay, and he's the one who's threatened most of them. He's not a minority. He is the majority, depended on by the government, depended on him by his distinguished peers in the audit, most of them are dependent on him, and are not allowed to do anything. Even those in HDZ are more endangered than I have to admit... So you're the Prime Minister Milorad Pupovac with the support, with everything, you can't look at it, you can't. [[You don't understand.]] These are the problems the people see. Here today, tomorrow is the funeral of the heroine Vesni Bosnian who left a great trail in the Homeland War, so because of such people from the Homeland War, we cannot allow it to be the majority, not the majority, to be the minority. Yet the democracy in which we have Croatia is still a lot of blood spilled in difficult times, but Milorad Pupovac is currently an alpha and omega in front of the prime minister and his people and members... The SDSS and that's the problem. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99078	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative named Brumnic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99079	Respected deputy directors, respected colleagues and colleagues. So this is how when I listened to my colleague Pavic, I kind of thought of one of their officials who said it was nice to live in this country. I can agree with him, it's nice to live in this country when you get a state apartment, when you get a state basement, when you get an official driver and then it's nice to live in this country. But when you read this review report, then I don't know where you find a quality and sustainable health system for the last 10 years, where you find a strong economy where the incentives we've got are transparently in which transparent incentives are invested. When you say wrong recording, wrong 10th and 100 million of concessions, rented spaces, sold property of the Republic of Croatia, good housing policy in the Republic of Croatia where the colleague said something in fact we do not guarantee 100 million most needed roofs, high-quality EU funds, or EU funds that we will not have to return in the future because I read from this report that some of these funds will have to be returned to Europe or that they will burden the state budget. Then logically, a colleague here draws two conclusions, which your other colleague pointed out to one of them to say that this report is well done because in it we can really read a lot, and that it is true when they say that this report serves nothing because if the HDZ votes for this report as he said they will vote then in fact... that this government is incompetent and that it did a bad job because it says so in the report. counterpart Pavić asked at the outset how to help the audit be better. I said in the last debate that it would change the government because it turns out the only way to help this country satisfy what the deputy state auditor said at the outset, what she wants to achieve with her audits that we function legally because this budget is not legally spent, that we function effectively. This budget has not been spent effectively. And to function transparently. Neither have we worked transparently, and this is not just a matter of wrong recording, but of persistent efforts by HDZ and others to hide certain things through the budget. And when you say it was a challenging year, then in that challenging year, I wish you'd said how much money you received from Europe under quotes of help from the money you gave to Croatian citizens. De facto the same as you got, you passed it on. As far as the earthquake is concerned, we can read about it in this report by the auditor on the spending of EU funds given to us by the earthquake, the National Recovery Plan. The national recovery plan is not being implemented, and what we got money from that national plan we got because we're the worst as a state. So Europe is self-aware that we are one of the worst members of them, and then she tried to give us the most, so that the most man would say bounce. Now that's the question of the functioning of this government. I say once again I think the report should be supported because the report pointed to problems, not only this report but many other State Audit reports as well. Where are the problems? The key problem is the policy that leads this country because it leads it in such a way that such reports have to happen, and these reports, I would like to get a report in this country once without any objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u99080	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will see each other again tomorrow, continue working Thursday 24 March at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the proposal for a Croatian hydrogen strategy by 2050. Have a good afternoon. MEETING Interrupted at 5:24 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u82957	Dear MPs, I wish you a good morning. A few short notices, but I see you already have everything that matters. As of today, we are working again in only one room in the assembly, so I am glad the seats are quite full and I invite all other colleagues and colleagues to come here so that we can work as well as possible. Except that we're all going to be working together right now, and we haven't changed any other rules for now. So masks are still mandatory except in the case of a speech here after the main speaker and immediately when you replicate or use a breach of the Rules of Procedure or seek a break. We've also made a new seating schedule. I asked the clubs to deliver by Thursday exactly which representative and representative will be sitting in, where we could have a clear record of who voted. That's the change we've made for now. I hope that the epidemiological situation will allow us to continue to move forward with the relief of measures. We will see here about the minutes, the speeches, the masks and the opening of the Assembly for our citizens and for round tables and everything organised by committees or club representatives. So this is, hopefully, the first step in the positive direction, and I expect that we will continue to work in quality, efficiency and well-being for our citizens. Today, as always at the beginning of the session, we are starting to take a stand. The first is as an independent representative of the respected colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u82958	The esteemed president of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues in Bosnia, lives on the side of our people's cleanest, purest, most corrupt who can easily be without us than we do without him. For us, his life is more famous than Paris's proletaries and German wise men. Its natural state is more beneficial and necessary to us than to Western civilization, which disrupts the mind, poisons the heart and kills our lives. These are words spoken relatively long ago by Ante Starcevic, talks about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will, of course, speak here about Croats and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina all know that they are not in an envious situation, and we see that the situation is complicated from day to day. The Croats are actually crucified between Serbian separatistism and Bosniak unitarism. And it is difficult to find the right dose, the right measure of how to set up against these two policies of the Bosniak Muslims and Serbs. What is signifiable here I must say that even High Commissioner Christian Smith recently gave the wind in the back to policies that do not carry well to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina when he said, so the elections should not be held, i.e. make it a status quo. And even Michael Murphy has said something that should be unacceptable to us in Croatia, i.e. he has put a sign of equality between the guilt of failing to reach an agreement between the Croats and Bosniaks. What we need to know here in the Croatian Parliament must be a consensus, which is that it is the Croats who are definitely the ones who want to reach an agreement on the Election Law, and the one who sabotages it is called Bakir Izetbegovic. So he's the one who doesn't want to come to a deal. Now, let's get into Bakir Izetbegovic's skin, what's this about? If he accepted an agreement that would be fair and fair for him, he would be declared a traitor within his voters, he would lose the election. And for him, this is a chess mat position. So, he simply must now decide whether he will agree to a fair deal with the Croats, of course, and with Serbs either risk his political position or in order to keep his political position much more at stake, perhaps not at a personal level, at a global level when I talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now Croatia's position here is extremely crucial and Croatia must, above all, be actively involved through the EU through Brussels. So we must no longer allow anyone in BiH to do anything without Croatia being involved in these processes. What I will remind you of is Croatia is also a signator of the Dayton Agreement, i.e. Croatia has both the right and the obligation to worry about the implementation of this agreement, i.e. according to the Croatian Constitution and the right and the obligation to care for the Croatian people. So this is one key topic and I call on Croatian diplomacy from this place to get as actively involved in these processes as possible, and at any cost, but at all costs, to reach an agreement on the Electoral Law in BiH. Otherwise, it remains a status quo, remains a status quo that corresponds partially to Serbs, answers definitely to Bosniaks but is 100% not responding to Croats. So this situation does not suit the Croats. And I'm going to say this, even though Ante Starcevic used to say that we needed them more than they did. So we need them very badly, but today, the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately without the help of Croatians in Croatia, will not survive without the help of the EU, and we must be aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83011	Let's move on. The ninth debate of the House Movement Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Dretar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83012	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The expected subject is quite clear. On yesterday, March 22, 2020, the city of Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake just as naturally as Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorje County. The estimate is the assessment we've heard over the past two years that it's been working on about 25,000 damaged objects, some less damaged, some more, some ready to collapse, some on construction or non-building reconstruction of which, in these two years, we can't really see anything. A few days ago we saw a powerful construction machine in the center of the city, a crane, fast workers at the corner of Zagreb, Petrinjska and Djordzic were headed for the demolition of the first house after two years. So we really have to say, and that's where I'm going to agree with the esteemed representative Raukar's pure Montipitity, and that's where they'd be particularly proud of themselves. What would really happen if I asked myself once more by the rhetoric of the State Movement that the people who are currently leading Croatia were leading the same country at the time of the great Serbian aggression? How many years would you wait to call the arms procurement tender? How much would that change wise men who would say they should, if they had to buy from whom, and how it would affect geostrategic, geopolitical relations in the region, Europe and globally, how many tens of millions of kunas would be blacked out in public procurement of sanitary material or all that was needed to obtain, or to defend and create a Croatian state? These questions can be answered, of course, only in the zone of speculation or imagining from which cold thorns must pass us. Fortunately, at this point, there was no question of people who are currently in power, at which point the most wondered Croatian defenders and, of course, their sacrifice that we must never forget. I'll repeat another 25,000 objects after two years of restored or of course built zero, zero. Incredibly inert, terrifying carelessness, a terrible and unforgivable sin of failure and inaction. Thank you, everyone who remembered the earthquake today and yesterday, but let me remember today on March 23, 2020, so 2 years ago at the Children's Diseases Clinic in Klajic, the 15-year-old girl Ana-Marija Carevic died of injuries. I will for her and in her memory be silent for a few moments and you can join me in it. Let her be an easy Croatian country!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83135	As the fourth one, a respected colleague, Bernardic, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83136	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is a chance to look back on yesterday's worrying, partially and dangerous statements by the new Minister of Paladin. So yesterday, on 22.3.2022, two years have passed since the Zagreb earthquake, from which no single house has been renovated, nor has a single scrap been changed. Although the hills and valleys were promised at the time of the pre-election campaign in 2020, they shared money with hand and hat, the full inability to solve citizens' problems has just come to an end in an earthquake. It took a full six months to pass a controversial Law on Reconstruction that showed time was disastrous, and that it was the worst witness to the fact that it had been changed after a year. So, only in 10 months last year, a year and a half after the earthquake, Croatia received a framework for reconstruction. This showed that the government had neither the political will nor the restoration was a priority, but unfortunately it had neither the ability to implement it. Former Fund Director Vangelic warned for months that the law is not right, that the programme of measures is bad and that it must change and that the resolution ministry is now already in charge of former HDZ construction minister Darko Horvat. In the end, Vangelic left, and the unresolved problems remained. But the balance sheet, two years after the earthquake, looks about like this: So only a little less than 4,000 requests arrived in the fund. I will remind you that only in Zagreb is 25000 facilities covered by earthquakes. In Banja together, it might all go up to 50,000. So only a little less than 4,000 requests have arrived, and 500 items have been solved and none of them relate to reconstruction. One refers to, not one but more to the check of the square, some to the payment of cash fees for the necessary procedures, but only a few decisions refer to the collapse. In addition, a recent competition for the restoration of a single house has been opened that nobody has reported to. So, because of the poor measure program, and because of the prices that are simply unsustainable. So, nothing. It's a dead end. And instead of turning Croatia into a large site of reconstruction still stands, and citizens do not move into their homes because they collect papers. The citizens of Zagreb, Croatian Zagorje and Banija are only interested in when they will be able to move to their homes and expect an answer from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Resor or the Mayor of Zagreb, who, on a new Friday, is with the Minister of Resor. Yesterday's statements we could hear from Minister Paladin are alarming. He announces, although the reconstruction has not yet begun to last six years. At the same time, they announce the restoration of 30 buildings in the city of Zagreb. Therefore, the public will be very interested in whose buildings they are, as they are chosen, because in them live people either are the subject of speculation or have been given the advantage of a political line as a building of a prime minister's friend. So some are moving into reconstruction immediately, and some will wait six years. That's what the minister said yesterday. Yesterday, with that dangerous thesis, he said two more. The first is to consider rounding up public procurement on the basis of framework agreements or on the basis of generic type-expensives. This will speed up the process. I'll remind you there's a great possibility of fraud in generic type-expensives. This cost includes materials, work, quantities and competitions, the one with the best price and with privileged information from the fund or the Central State Office it is known that some items are not available at all, and some have much more in the cost list. And then for items that don't have much you offer a lower price and a higher price for those who simply have a lot and based on privileged information. So if you don't have privileged information or you get a job and lose money or you won't get a job. And the second thing that has actually confirmed the first thesis of Minister Paladin is that this week he will insist on opening a new competition for the fund manager even though the tender has already been called and candidates who meet the conditions have come forward. So the question arises why they will insist on opening a new competition. Because he'll probably pick someone he can arrange public procurement with. It actually confirms that the Zagreb earthquake, two years after the earthquake, is still shaking, but this time, the government of the Republic of Croatia will most likely tear it down by the term of office. To express myself paintingly, Plenkovica is led by Horvat, and will be finished by Paladino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83137	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83138	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have violated Article 33(6). Rules of Procedure that says you need to coordinate the work of the working bodies and the work of the Croatian Parliament. I will now report every time a situation like this occurs that during the duration of the Croatian Parliament we have a working body and we cannot attend the session. Your assignment I sent it to you in writing last time, if you're not in a position to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83139	Thank you, colleague Brumnic. So I don't summon working bodies, so this. What am I supposed to do? Order the board president to convene a working body at some point? So the responsibility of the president of the working bodies is when they will call on the working bodies, and I can suggest that the working bodies meet when there is no plenary session. So it's either yesterday or today after the plenary session or before the plenary session, but don't call me. What does that have to do with you? I won't give a warning because my colleague is trying and it's a good intention, so the working bodies meet when there's no plenary session. It's not always possible, but it should be a practice. However, we must admit that one part of the Committee president prefers Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, because they may not be able to attend Monday or Tuesday. But don't call me that, so I don't have the authority to do it. Let's move on. Let's move on. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, dear colleague of Pulak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83217	Dear colleagues and colleagues. With a trail of news that came out last night, they published 24 hours here I ask a question, does Croatia have an empathy tax or humanity? So far, Croatia has received more than 9,000 displaced persons from Ukraine. So many are officially recorded, there may be more, those who have come to friends, acquaintances, families and past the Red Cross and other institutions, and the Croatian people have reacted as they know, to people in need, open hearts, especially because we have experienced similar horrors 30 years ago and the wounds are still fresh. We reacted by showing great humanity in action by helping in every way possible. Collecting assistance, which is sent to Ukraine itself or to the border with Ukraine, receiving people to their homes, providing them with accommodation. Some families from Ukraine are therefore willing to even pay for the accommodation, want to work and engage in a working relationship in Croatia, but most people provide them with free accommodation, do not charge rent. This is precisely the provision of free accommodation renting with an amount of 0 kuna rent is the problem, because the state and such a 0 kuna rent charge income tax on such rent and no income. So for several years now, it's been a rule that the owner of the apartment or house pays taxes and taxes even on rents that he doesn't have at all. So whoever in these difficult times wants to do a good deed but works fair and such contract declares, the 0 kuna rent contract, so make a deal with people on a 0 kuna rent, eventually it will be in a minus because both the state and the city will pay taxes and taxes or let's call it an empathy tax or a humanity tax. Therefore, according to the Income Tax Act, if the amount of the lease is not declared or is not declared in the market amount, the rental income will be determined by the tax administration according to the market prices of the rental in the place where the property is located. Therefore, if the contract says that the rent is 0 kuna, or is less than the market price in that area, the State will establish an average rent for that area is reduced by 30%, and then charge that amount, to charge a 10% tax each month. For example, if the tax administration finds that some market rent for this area is 1000 kn, the owner will pay 700 kn tax of 10%, i.e. 70 kn per month. That is what the city's cut is added to, so there would be an additional 18% in Zagreb, somewhere from 82 kn per month of taxes and taxes. So here, I call on the Ministry of Finance, Minister Maric to react in this case, to review these rules, not to punish those people who really show humanity in action, who show here and want to work honestly, want to report all these rental contracts, but in some ways actually help people displaced from Ukraine, here, cancel the humane tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83269	We're going to the seventh debate, dear colleague Raukar-Gamulin on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83270	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues last week, we had a debate on the proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. The date of the hearing is 17.3.2022. The Law on Official Statistics of Article 34(3) states: “The annual implementation plan is to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament by 15 December of the current year for the following year.” Therefore, this proposal for the annual implementation plan of statistical activities was to be voted in the Assembly by 15 December 2020, so a year and three months ago. In this House, it has already become a normal practice for various reports to be late year, two, even three. Report of the HRT Supervisory Board, report on police work, report by the National Bank, etc. It is enough to look at the Parliament's agenda so you can clearly see a whole series of reports that are late for discussion and voting. However, it is completely absurd to discuss and vote on the annual plan for the past year. So, discuss what will be done last year. Can you imagine a family doing plans and financial structures, where they're going to take a vacation and how they did last year? In the opening brief presentation, the secretary of state did not even consider it necessary to explain the suspicious situation to discuss the plan for last year's activities. To my question what the point of this debate is, the secretary of state honestly answered that it doesn't really make sense. And no, that's basic common sense, but here's the contentious form of the debate is over and will vote on that pointless plan for last year this Friday. But what about the legal obligation? That plan will go according to the article. 34. The law on official statistics will be unlawfully passed, so it will be illegal. How is it possible that the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, does not simply adhere to the letters of the law. The law-making body, which must be followed by all citizens and citizens of Croatia, just does not adhere to the same law. What happens to citizens who don't follow the law? They get fines, financial or prison. And what happens to the Parliament, to the MPs, to the Parliament's representative? Nothing at all. However, I have not noticed that the representative of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, sees as the most responsible in this regard any problem. I've never heard a hint of apology, of discomfort, which has been delayed for years with reports, so it's to assume that this Friday will put a peaceful vote on total absurdity and illegality. What kind of message is the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia sending to the citizens when the law itself is not adhered to. What message does it send when it allows to discuss the work plan for the previous year? It's not only unserious, it's not only absurd, it's not only that it can stand in the anthology of Mount Peyton, not that it's simple and illegal, but it totally degrades the highest legislative body. The assembly turns out to be some unsuspecting body, some free debate club in which you can do it anyway. It doesn't matter that the legal deadline is not satisfied, it can be delayed, it can break legal deadlines per year, two, three, it can be what it wants as long as the Krlegian compact majority obeys the arms. So this Friday, at the invitation of President Jandrokovic, will without speaking, raise his hand for a completely pointless, absurd plan of activity for the past year, and break the law, but who cares. The personal shame of an idiotic situation is gone, sanity is gone, obedience is the main thing. Long live last year's planning. This is a new, innovative Croatian strategic thinking for the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83359	Others will speak on behalf of the club of representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83360	We live in a time when people and peoples are afraid of threats, horror. We see wars are close, but we also see misinformation from those who need to give information, calm down in public. We see a drone problem, any explosives, no explosives. So NATO says, the secretary-in-chief says there's no explosives, the prime minister says there's explosives. It is likely that some information has emerged that Institute Ivan Vučetic, who is essentially doing forensics, has established so far that there are no explosives. And it's not the best behavior and it doesn't stabilize our people mainly in this difficult situation, where we have a huge fear. And it's not good just to be top-gain in these crisis situations, wear jackets, put on glasses and play Tom Cruis, because this isn't the time of the act, this is the time of national threat. They're jeopardizing our economies, our economies, our farms, our self-sufficiency. This is a crisis after a corona crisis that has been forgotten of the corona literally as if and there is not going to be a first grenade sweep or ran away at this point we have a lot of problems. First, to calm the people, the people, to put an end to everything that we need to put down but obviously as if the war had come to the government that the PR-ovski represented as, well I said as if Top Gun were on NATO ships, as if we were going to defeat some opponents ourselves, as if we were going to lead the main role and in fact we would have to fight exclusively in this situation for the interests of our people, as in Croatia is mentioned here and in Bosnia and Herzegovina with whom we are so connected with the Croats. That's why we need projects right now. I'm going back to life at this point. I want to know, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats and election problems are mentioned. And that promise made by the prime minister is not respected, because the elections will not be as promised to be equal to the Croatian people as it is under the Constitution and not. And it isn't, that people are forgotten and manipulated. But they are important to us in this infrastructure situation three years from the meeting of the government in Split, the second largest city, the largest county. And key projects in this area are very important to us. It is important for us to have a tourist season, we need peace, peace and stability that tourists in this crisis attract them if possible, because our neighbours in Croatia will come sooner than they will travel to other countries for this instability. But the projects and infrastructure promised then at that time I will mention it, I always mention it, it is, in Dalmatia is forgotten except the Kozjak tunnel. Because in Dugopolje, 2 and a half thousand daily vehicles come out of the highway, while through Split to Sinj, most vehicles pass through the Cetin region daily, mostly in the Republic of Croatia. Only in the centre of Sinja 22,000 on average. State road D1 is the biggest crowd, and from Split to Sinj, 14000 vehicles pass through Dicmo through the Cetin end. And this fast road for 50,000 inhabitants and for Split, the Split swimming pool, I speak from Trogir, Kaštel, Split means I speak for the whole pool to Omis is overcrowded. People can't buy an apartment anymore. One square meter of apartment is 5,000 euros. Well, one family for 50 squares has to give 350,000 euros. While with this fast road that was promised, promised, performance studies, documentation, it was absolutely silent. Well, it can't be just an Ante Sanader's interest to be up to his drill tunnel, which absolutely won't matter if there's no bridge over the Kaštelan Bay. I once again ask a very strong question for Split, Split-Dalmatia County, which is with the verticals of the fast road Kukuzovac – Križice that would allow Split to develop towards Sinj, according to the Cetinska krajina, and also Račva – Drvenik, the Drvenik part, the Knin part is forgotten by The connections to the highway and those ends have been forgotten. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83443	The sixth debate of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Hajdas Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83444	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Small and medium-sized enterprises, municipalities and cities these days receive 300, 400 per cent higher electricity price announcements, so three to four times the price of 1.5, as of 1 May. Unfortunately, the public doesn't get me wrong is having fun whether the drone had explosives, didn't have explosives. So there's this whole cacaphony. And what's the point? The point of the whole story is that inflation is here, not at the door, here. The two-year renewal stands, the official inflation rate, therefore measured by the consumer price index, is in February 6.3%. But what's most important is perceptional, so according to the CNB research, it's 24%. You know why? Because the consumer price index in Croatia measures the average and it represents an individual household that does not exist at all, there is no. How does the consumer price index count? 38000 prices on a pre-defined sample in 9 geographical units in Croatia. And now, of course, it doesn't matter if any imaginary household spends 20 or 35 percent of their expenses on food or fuel, whether it has a car or has no car. I'm only talking about the cause of certain demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. So the methodology is correct if we follow it statistically, but reality is something different. Why do I say that? Because every household in Croatia has its own unique consumer basket, so which maintains their income, the taste of the place of residence, and thus inflation represents only for them a single good and individual service. What are we supposed to do? So some research exists. So, actually segment households in Croatia, for example, pensioners, single households, households with one member, families with two children up to 19 years of age, after 19 years of age. And what's your conclusion after that research? That 10% of the poorest in Croatia spend 70% of your baskets on categories whose prices grew faster, and according to OECD research, 30% of the population in Croatia is poor or at risk of poverty. So the latest data for February 2022, so your rate of change is 10%, your transport is 11%. So I'm talking about the total consumption basket. What does that mean? This means that higher rates of inflation have those households that in their structure stand out more for food and directing, which are mostly your poorer households. While 10% of your richest are entering this goddamn index, these are your households that make you that average of 6.3% inflation. It's so-called. The index published by the State Statistics Office. And now watch the paradox, so the inflation reference rate observed from 2001 to 2021 was 43% for the poorest 52.6% and 10% for the richest in Croatian society had an inflation of 41.8%. I'm talking about the period from 2001 to 2021. What does that mean? It means that the pensioners and their households in 2001 had expenditure on spending of 4000 kuna, and for the same basket 20 years later, 6107 kuna. And what is real income, and how have real pensions been raised and how realistic do we say pay? Which means that pensions should be defalsified by the rate of inflation of retirement households, social benefits should be linked to the rate of inflation of retirement households, social benefits should be linked to the rate of inflation Poor households, and the growth of real wages should be deflationed by the rate of employee inflation. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83445	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic. Now, as the tenth, he will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected counterpart, Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83522	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The war in Ukraine completely dominates both the media space and everything that happens. We have seen how much it is and trauma to people, to our people who have survived the war in this area and aggression, how solid we are with the Ukrainian people, but we must also not forget all that is happening in this country and the good that the government is doing. There I would stick to two topics, one being the adoption of a strategic compass in which the government has put the consistency of the people in BiH as a priority with our initiative and amendment. This is one of the first EU strategic documents that has just entered the government's diplomatic initiative, which is enough to say that this government knows how to care as the guardian of the Dayton Agreement for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we know how to articulate, that the Dutch government has officially given a protest note about the article. Therefore, we knew the key partners in the EU to convince them. The second component is growth, employment and retention of credit ratings. Standard & Poor's has approved or confirmed a credit rating with stable prospects. As it looked in the previous government, three times a credit rating went down. He grew up to us. We had a surplus for three years, and now we have stable prospects. It is a message of trust, of encouragement that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is doing a good economic job, that we have preserved economic stability, growth despite these inflationary pressures, war in Ukraine, covid crisis and two earthquakes. As it started, and let's remember in 2008 when we were almost a decade away from the crisis, the government gave 12 and a half billion kuna to save 700,000 jobs. We have salary growth, employment growth. This year, 11% more payments, contributions, salaries in Zagreb have exceeded 8000 kuna and 1000 euros in Croatia. We are also aware of the inflation issues that hit precisely our most vulnerable pensioners, socially excluded and there is a package of five billion kunas that should limit gas prices to 20%, electricity to 9%, and we have also reduced VAT to key products. We thus retain growth and give a clear message to citizens that in this crisis there is concern for them, that despite everything we have growth and that the price of growth and development and pay increases will be compensated through various support, and there is primarily covid support for our pensioners from 400 to 1200 kuna. We also saw that today, or yesterday, the prices of oil derivatives had fallen where the government had just urinated in the regulation. We also heard colleagues from the SDP talking about the rise in gas prices. If it were up to them, we wouldn't have gas at all. Their colleague Ahmetovic said she would throw herself in front of the badgers, there would be no LNG, there would be no gas at all, then we could not talk at all about measures to ease the price, gas growth. Therefore, if a government has shown what it knows about measures and how and how it clearly shows all polls where HDZ is leading too powerfully. And according to the latest poll that HDZ is the first choice of citizens of the city of Zagreb. And when we listen to colleagues and colleagues from WE CANO who insult our President-in-Office of the Parliament that he is only there for handlifters, I would remind you of what is going on in their city assembly, where here is the only day we saw that Mr. Tomašević has given you the millions of jobs of the company founded after the opening of the competition, where the Chinese capital is guaranteed, millions of contracts are given, and this is so annoying by your coalition partners that the public SDP announces you the revision of the coalition agreement. Therefore, employment growth, the retention of credit ratings, the entry into the euro area shows that this government knows economically, can and will certainly be at the service of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83523	We've come to an end with a view of clubs and independent representatives, so let's get on the agenda now. Now it's my colleague Daus' turn on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83615	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, more and more refugees from Ukraine to Croatia, and every day we hear that our citizens have engaged heavily, they have practically opened the doors of their homes to these people, provided them with all the necessary help from accommodation to all other needs. It is welcomed that the state has been involved, which wants to help all of them, children to be able to go to schools, kindergartens, adult employment and for good faith, empathy, humanism, solidarity, absolute commendation for insisting that traumatized women, children, try to get as painlessly involved in society as possible with absolute commendation. But practice is no longer the same as theory. In practice, we come up with one problem, we don't have a well-developed system. War horrors in Ukraine, a distance from the family, not knowing whether the living are those who remained, then a difficult, hard road, uncertainty, fear, shock, coming into an unknown new environment, a new language, a new mentality, and after that inclusion in this new society is something that under much more normal circumstances is a very complex process. In practice, the first problem that arises is the insufficient number of professional people with knowledge of the language needed to work with preschool and school children as the most sensitive groups in society. We get information from the field from people who have received families from Ukraine to their homes, that children and after those traumas in their homeland are now afraid to go to school because of a language barrier. There should certainly be commendation for all those Croatian teachers, educators, educators who are trying in all ways to engage those children in teaching or preschool activities. Some really do their best, but they're also very difficult because of the language barrier. It really is a big problem that needs to be solved as quickly as possible, because the question is how many more people from Ukraine will come and how many of them will, of course, stay here. Life is unpredictable. In addition, information is provided from the field that very few translators are also available at the first contact when people are just arriving from Ukraine to Croatia, because they need some professional things to explain, and that is only one person who can speak their language or language that they understand, and the translator is really very little. So it is known that exhausted people wait in ranks while each individual tries to explain some basic information about the country they have come to. On the other hand, we can only imagine what a exhausted translator looks like at the end of the day. And I'm not saying that, of course, to criticize someone, but to warn about the problems that are happening. And things change every day, and it's very dynamic and it's to try and we all try to find a solution together and make a contribution to it, to actually establish a system that's going to be fast and efficient. But it should then activate all available personnel resources. I do not know if you can get these data, whether there is a base of employees, married, married citizens and citizens of Ukraine in the Republic of Croatia, then students of Ukrainianism or those of student exchanges, etc. So, all those who can help at this point. This is practically a new emergency situation, it requires, of course, extraordinary management of the system, where at all times you need to know who it is, what it is and where it is available, not that the system depends partly or one good part only on humanity and engagement and the will of individuals. And another thing that I did, I got word from Istria, some charities that also collect money aid, but food aid, hygiene supplies, medicines, drive the collected aid to the border with Ukraine, except, of course, that they have to pay for fuel and everything ok. but can somehow solve the toll problem which is certainly not a small expense, at least to the part where the state can react. So I would appeal to the authorities to find hearing, to try to find a solution to at least free them from the cost of paying tolls that are not negligible especially because these associations show humanity, help the needy, of course, avoid abuse because it is always possible but can be achieved by systematic approach and control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83659	Now she will speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club dear colleague Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-23-0.u83660	Our colleagues have recently witnessed various gatherings despite the interventions of a state that seeks to alleviate and alleviate them. Yet there are gatherings that are felt in some sectors more, in some less. Such a situation was not often ignored, but a very important economic sector, which is public transport. Therefore, public transport to our citizens often remains the only affordable mode of transportation to work, school, pharmacy or hospital. As a rule, rural and underdeveloped environments, this public transport is the only way to get from point A to point B. The first blow to public transport was certainly given by a pandemic, as many carriers contracted the transport of students for 180 days a year, and because of the transition to online teaching, they were left with no agreed and expected income. The same story is with workers who worked from home, and the fixed costs of the carrier remained identical. So they had to pay both directors and fuel and leasing and everything else. Despite the fact that there was a reduction in fuel prices yesterday, without additional aid from the state, many carriers will hardly be able to submit changes in the fuel market because they are becoming unsustainable for their cold drive, driver departures abroad are common, and the fact is that certain counties continue to avoid signing a contract, i.e. public transport services that are crucial for the survival of public transport in rural areas. In particular, public carriers have requested certain measures to preserve this public transport and believe it is necessary to preserve access to fuels without restriction, as some countries in our environment have already reached that measure. It is necessary to encourage a more up-to-date signing of a public service contract with the counties, as only two counties have opened a public tender to ensure public transport to citizens, which is particularly important for those living in rural parts of the county. Finally, it is necessary to continue measures to preserve jobs to be extended. Let us be honest and realistic, without quality and affordable public transport there is no resuscitation of rural undeveloped areas. If we don't have public transport and citizens' mobility, then all the stories of demographic restoration and the reviving of rural underdeveloped areas fall into the water. If we were to fully strip things, none of us would move with little kids to a place that's completely traffic-insulated. And not just that. If we get into a situation where public transport is collected, we're going to cause a growing number of unreported autocars who say they're going to drive on black, and then the prices won't be a little socially acceptable, or reasonable, but will of course go wild and be blackmailing. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS shares the concerns of public transporters and we believe that they need help, because this aid is absolutely affecting all of us, and will in particular be felt in undeveloped rural areas where rarely public transport is the only way of transport, and sometimes the only contact with the city and meeting basic personal and social needs.
