ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u82954	All themes are legitimate in HS. Although I must point out at a time of crisis like this, the stories of some long-forgotten epidemics and something else are slightly trivial. Just because we're going to discuss Ukraine a little later and what the Prime Minister is coming to HS, he's talking about the importance of this topic. I'm going to ask a few questions here that I believe everyone is asking. The first question is, is Croatia possibly already accidentally involved in this war conflict? And I will offer the answer, in my opinion it is even because if Croatia is going to send 124 million kunas worth of equipment or weapons these days, light walking weapons, which are used to arm 4 pedestrian brigades, then Croatia is indirect in this conflict. And it's very important that we keep in mind. Not only Croatia, but many other countries as well. Even though some of them did slow down a little bit. Poland, from the original idea that it even sent military planes to Ukraine and Slovakia, also gave up both Slovakia and Poland. But most EU countries, except NATO, are sending weapons to Ukraine. And Putin knows, I didn't reveal anything new to him. That's what the Russians know. Just so we're not surprised if there's a scenario that might not be a wishful scenario for us tomorrow. What we all know is that one of the greatest conflicts in the 21st century is definitely, and I dare say, everyone has mentioned it since World War II. And it was all like that, it would have ended up being watched on social networks, if at some point Vladimir Putin hadn't threatened with nuclear weapons, and he threatened to nuclear weapons to anyone involved or involved in a conflict. So he also threatened Croatia. I'm going to pull one parallel here, or ask another question, actually, which is very important, which is, in Croatia, are atomic shelters ready? Are they ready? Do we have them? How many do we have? Are they equipped? Are they ready? If someone is threatening nuclear weapons, the logical question is to ask, if we are even close to that country, do we have atomic shelters? We don't have atomic weapons. I still have to point out here that I don't want to spread fear and panic, but these are legitimate things and I'm afraid we're all going to be talking about this soon, we've taken the side and let's take it. We're a NATO pact, we're the West, that's our side, that's our allies. It's just, let's not put our heads in the sand and don't listen, I'm sorry, let's not hear any threats coming from the East. With what is extremely important and must be stressed, Russia is not lonely, is not alone in the world, is not fallen alone in the world. With it are many other, vast and powerful states. China's with her. So I would even dare say that he is on this side of us, good, bright, only the United States, the United States and the EU plus the UK. And no one else. It's just us. On the other hand, this one front that has gathered, or I, one companion who has gathered is extremely powerful and extremely large. So, I repeat, we take sides, our side is the NATO Pact, we're the West, but let's listen and watch what happens, at the moment our weapons cross the border and come to Ukraine, the situation changes, and we need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u82999	Like the 8th, a respected colleague, Dretar, will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83000	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, dear colleagues and respected colleagues. One quote from the book of American politologist and writer Samuel Huntington. World politics is entering a new phase, intellectuals have so far not hesitated to multiply many visions of what will happen, the end of history, the return to traditional rivalries between nations states, the fall of nations under the opposing forces of nobility and globalism. Each of these visions has caught a certain aspect of the reality that is happening to all of us. Yet they all predicted a key really central aspect of what global policy would become or has become. The main cause of the conflict in this new world will be neither the prevailing ideological nor the prevailing economic. Large divisions between the human race and the prevailing sources of conflict will be cultural. Nations and states will continue to be the most powerful players in world events, but major conflicts of global policy will emerge between nations and different civilizations. The conflict of civilizations will dominate global politics, unstable distinctions between civilizations will become battlefields of the future, conflict between civilizations will be the final stage of the evolution of conflict in the modern world. That's what Samuel Huntington wrote in 1996. The thing we have to admit is quite prophetic, and today we are witnessing a bloody conflict for now only unfortunately in Ukraine, we are witnessing the aggression of a civilization that carries its system of values and we are witnessing currently Ukraine, which stands itself, although often used phrases on the defender of good civilization, we can say that at this point at an imaginary, imaginary level, the civilization of good and the civilization of evil is conflicting. But this terrible conflict in which Croatia firmly and resolutely gave its position, and I thank again our civil protection that has triggered and concrete things, is a equally important conflict that is happening here in this country. It's not a war thank God, but it's a conflict not between two civilizations, it's a conflict between two cultures and the question is which of those two cultures will prevail in the future in this country. As we read yesterday that the former minister has been released from custody, that he may activate, reactivate his parliamentary mandate, that he has applied to measure 6+6, while the state's attorney's office is seriously engaged in the launch of pre-operations related to the investigation of another current minister in the Croatian government, while we are witnessing a whole series of downfalls or at least attempts by some important people in this country, I ask you once again, how does the average man view it? He's scared! Of course, he's scared because the prices around him are rising, his salary is miserable, they're no longer driving anywhere, they're out of fuel, the directors are gone to heaven, they don't know how they're gonna get warm, they're gonna pay for basic living needs, the Parliament doesn't do anything, so the Croatian people say, and I'm afraid it's almost there and it's totally right. So what now? In a few moments, ten minutes, this is where the prime minister of Croatia will come to tell us about the situation in Ukraine. In principle, from the theory of infantry, as an armored vehicle has smoke pipes that release smoke, it seems to be a less visible enemy rush, so here Mr. Prime Minister will talk about the situation in Ukraine. No doubt that's the case, no one's arguing. But will he talk about what is currently and how Croatian citizens think and live? He won't. Not because they are horrified by the conflict between the culture of kindness, the culture of maturity and the culture of moral and mental purity and unfortunately those other cultures, the culture of evil, the culture of corruption, the culture of disrespecting the fundamental principles of what is Croatian, what is in our religion, in our tradition, what is our homeland. And just for the last 10 seconds, I'll tell you, they're very proud of the Serbs when we deal with them. The state of Serbia, I speak. Don't worry, they don't matter to us at all. Don't waste time on them, they're not worthy of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83054	Thank you. Let's move on, the sixth is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Sacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83055	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public is indeed ahead of us and we are already in one dramatic time, time of change, fateful time marking war in Ukraine in Croatia. Aggression unexpected, sudden for many, but obviously long planned, and the Croatian government reacts together with its partners, with our partners from the EU and NATO Pact in the way it believes best to protect the interests of the attacked people, as well as our Croatian interests. And so it led us to yesterday's, the day before yesterday's decision to grant not only humanitarian aid and solidarity to accept refugee but also to military aid for concrete deadly weapons on the list of deadly enemies of Putin himself. We as a Croatian state must be aware of this and the Croatian people must be aware of what it means. It's very serious stuff. Yesterday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia made it clear what it means, how they will treat the Russians, and we have to deal with our own style and lifestyle because the decision that was made in October 2007 saw how short, this assembly, this assembly round and parliamentary representatives then, under the chairmanship of Mr. Vladimir Seks, made a very simple decision with 5 words of non-invition, of commitment, of non-inviting recruits to military service. In 2008, the decision made the landing of 325,000 Croatian young men these 13 years was disabled in military training, I do not justify those 6 months and that objection to the conscience that turned into that the young men who were then invited to serve the military deadline more than 65% ended up with Minister Murganić or social services wearing papers, I do not justify it, but the decision to at the same time make this opportunity to serve a voluntary military period according to the plans of 2,000 young men a year has also not been achieved except instead of 2,000 young men per year for serving, but in Pozega every year, approximately 300 to 400 young men, instead of 2,000 300-400 young men and girls, the service of this military training took place three months ago, now two-monthly 8 weeks. And this led to the following that in 30 generations today we reached 9,360 Croatian young men and girls who were trained in Požega for military service, for active military service, but the candidate was 39,000 who were not trained and had an interest. So these are the things that should certainly be seriously analysed by the team before we have been trained thanks to Minister Damir Krstičević, God has guarded and blessed him, it is evident that he was a believer of the Homeland War and as a minister he changed Mr from HSLS he is not here, he has changed the Law of Defence and the Law of Service in the Armed Forces which now enables us to, today in an emergency situation, regardless of our military deadline, urgently raise up to 30,000 reservers in an unclassified reserve to train them for 30 days. So military mandatory deadline Mr. Beljak what you said doesn't have to be in that form in Croatia but we activate the existing laws and we will come to the same thing because we now allow our new recruits to unclassify the reserve, and these are 18 years away, we call it in this unclassified reserve and that for 30 days now I have this possibility of military service we train this because it is necessary. Croatia's future will no longer be the same as it was up to 3-4 days ago. We have here in our heart near Karlovac, near Zagreb, at the edge of eastern Slavonia we also have the condition we have, in the heart of Croatia, close to the heart of Croatia a potential danger driven by strong Russian forces in the future, military intelligence or intelligence or even in any other way that I can [[Intruder: Thank you.]] endanger Croatia in the first 24 hours. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Sacic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83056	Thank you, fellow Sacic. Thank you. A colleague, Vidovic, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83120	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues allow a few objects to happen and the opinion is also the position of our club on this. Of course, we share the concerns of all our citizens, including the entire free world with war, with the situation in Ukraine, with the fact that a sovereign state is so brutally attacked and that no one in the world can be considered devoid of responsibility because of what will be the course of this war, not only because of its own interests, but also because of the fact that the entire world order is actually changing and that this aggression actually means the attack on modern civilization and everything that civilization rests on. We also share the legitimate expectation of our citizens that the Republic of Croatia is actively involved in helping the citizens of Ukraine and the efforts that seem to be welcomed, and when it comes to providing and helping refugees who will come to Croatia but in all other ways we want to and we must be active stakeholders in fact of these battles for civilization values. I would like to welcome the fact that the Croatian government reacted quickly and that the takeover of Sberbank from the Croatian Post Bank is an act that has calmed one part of our citizens who have funds laid down in that bank and that this type of reaction is actually welcome and because it is shown that the government can be if it wants to be functional. At the same time, however, we are also asking the Government to urgently gather everything that can be gathered in Croatia to closely promote the situation and economic consequences that this war will undoubtedly have on the Croatian economy and standards of our citizens, to well assess the risks and energy situation that comes with all the other consequences, and also the fact that through Fortan's Russian capital it owns a large part of the agricultural land in Croatia and that we would have to find a way to return this property to Croatian hands, which is not an impossible mission that Croatia has some money at its disposal. None of us can order or suggest what they'll do, say, pension funds. But in any case returning to the Croatian hands of the fertile agricultural country would certainly be one way to protect also Croatian interests and to reduce in some way the risks that threaten the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. However, I would like to warn you of something else. Yesterday we received a retrieval, or the Croatian government received a request to launch an investigation against another minister. The situation in which each week the minister is one going under investigation, is not the situation that guarantees us, which ensures that we can count on the government really working the way it should in these challenging times we need an absolutely functional government, we have the right to ask for it. The opposition does not have to stand on the eyelashes to require the government's reconstruction, but the prime minister must stand firm on his feet. Let the government, if the ruling party and coalition are not in their ranks, in their membership, choose people who can best meet the challenges that this country faces and when it comes to rebuilding and when it comes to ensuring these, address these problems that are just coming to us. So competent and elementally honest people can be found in this country to do ministerial work that cannot be a reward. This is one of the most difficult jobs and the most responsible ones that a country has, and that is why we believe that this cannot be a reward for similar people, but really a serious effort to lead this country in the best possible way. We put that request before the government and expect it to respond in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83199	The 10th debate of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague of Pulak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83200	I thank the chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. Last week I finished my speech on Ukraine on Friday, and this week I start because all other problems seem irrelevant compared to the possibility that one finger pressure would destroy the whole world and our way of life. In the struggle between autocracy and democracy, between dictatorship and freedom, Ukraine is now our first line of fronts in defense of civilization values and we are obliged to do everything in our power to stop this madness. For the seventh day of the Russian attack on Ukraine, the war on the European continent has been the largest since II. World War II only 500 km from Croatia. People in Ukraine wonder, do we believe in Croatia that this is actually happening there or do we believe in Russian propaganda that says that they have come to free the people from the Nazi government. Today, as the bombs fall on Kiev, Harkiv and other Ukrainian cities as the missiles hit maternity sites, children's hospitals, while a 65km long column of military equipment, weapons are coming to surround the capital of Ukraine, while more than 600,000 people have left Ukraine since the current President Putin we hear similar excuses that we heard in '91. in Croatia. He says he comes as a savior, saves the endangered Russian people and frees the people of Ukraine from evil authority. And the only evil in the whole story is him. Putin is a war criminal and if this war survives, he will be tried as a war criminal. The International Court of Justice will hold discussions next week on Russia's charges of genocide. So this is not an attack by the Russian people on Ukraine, the Russian people do not want to war, the Russian people protest the streets of Moscow, St. Petersburg has been arrested in more than 50 cities across Croatia for anti-war protests of more than 3,000 people. The international community has united in support and solidarity with Ukrainian President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people in their fight for freedom. They remind us why democracy is important and why we must fight to protect it. Last night was reportedly prevented and the assassination of President Zelensky, I can freely say that today we are all Greensky. This is not the time to be neutral, and it is, therefore, particularly worth the step of Switzerland and other countries that have been neutral so far. We are united in sanctions against Russia, impose economic, sports, cultural, financial sanctions, Russia is isolated from the rest of the world, and Ukraine is sending all possible assistance. Unlike some who spoke here at the pay phone, I'll say they should be even more severe in all sanctions and more direct in helping the Ukrainian people. For days with heartache, we witness a humanitarian tragedy that takes place in front of the eyes of the whole world in the heart of Europe in an independent and democratic Ukraine. We listen to that bell language, we recognize similar words, we learn about rich culture and interesting history, we talk about rich tradition and the will of the Ukrainian nation. Now we need to talk about the desperate efforts of the Ukrainian people to resist a superior enemy who violates all international agreements. This war is not directed against the state, but against Ukrainian identity. We are aware that Ukraine has now measured European values, and its defeat would be the defeat of democracy in world terms. That's why I call on all people of goodwill, all over Europe and all over the world, especially Russian intellectuals, scientists, athletes, humanitarians not to be silent about speaking out loud because we don't have the right to remain silent about this. " Prove that you are with us, prove that you will not leave us, prove that you are truly Europeans, and then life will win death, and light will beat darkness," the Ukrainian leader said yesterday in an extraordinary session of the European Parliament. There are no weapons that can destroy the human spirit and the will to defend your home, your family, your freedom. Finally, I will quote the greatest Ukrainian poet Taras Chevchenko "Forget all the shame of years ago and bring to life good glory, Slava Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83341	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. As we have announced, so after taking a position, we will have a report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Ukraine, depending on the number of clubs that will speak, so we will discuss the debate. I put half 11 as a possible term, but maybe it'll be a few minutes later. Let's go now to the debates, first in line on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored counterpart Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83342	We are all witnesses and all day long we are the last eyes in Ukraine, we know that here it is, and Croatia is making the most of it to help mainly people who are fleeing from Ukraine. Here I can say that it is good that we help people in difficult situations and that this maximum that we must give and I am as ready as other mayors and mayors of Sinj city to deliver a message that we are also ready to help those families who are running from war, mainly children and powerless. We need to help these families. However, Croatia currently has a number of problems. At the same time we have fences here in the square while half the government will be in the fences of the Remetinca. I therefore call on the prime minister to say urgently what is happening in the government if we see that the DORH continues to tailor the government of the Republic of Croatia and to remove these fences for tourists from Mark's square at the moment, while the fences are set for the Croatian government in Remetinco. I would also mention here the terror of a two-year Civil Protection Staff and that a few days ago they were abolished in public legal bodies by the covid certificates that are pointless. They were abolished at the moment when the referendum was started to count, which we collected at the Zagreb Fair, and at that moment in this severe crisis of war that Ukraine in Ukraine, of course, was the easiest thing to say to end the certificates. But we will not stay from the referendum so that three, four colleagues Bujević, colleagues Bačić, or I don't know who came there and they decide who will and when to introduce what measures in the threats and crises but will decide by two-thirds of the majority on the abolition of freedom and rights. I in the City of Sinj, regardless of the law imposed here by the forced commercial majority, have not even introduced a copy of the certificate, but that's why my colleague Bačić was harassed by Andrija Mikulić, the inspector of me as mayor and punished by a number of penalties here, I have a folder here. It's a lot of tens of thousands of kunas I've received, but I haven't introduced a senseless homage of confirmation because I've been elected mayor for those who have been vaccinated and not vaccinated, and they've been vaccinated, and they've transmitted the infection, especially in my city administration, I have proof of that. Therefore, once again, you will not introduce any more terror but you will not say a covid certificate will be abolished, the referendum of the people is pointless. It's not pointless because there's enough terror in Andrija Mikulic and his inspectorate he privatized. No matter what on the first degree, the court refuses their sentence sent to me, and we know that the council here has decided on amendments to the law exclusively Lex Bulj to punish me. And I am proud to say that I have not abolished my rights and freedoms as mayor of Sinj City, not one citizen in the City Administration of Sinj as mayor, but I have served everyone, but that is why I was elected by the citizens. And that terror must end. Can't colleague Bujević, a colleague of Capak when a colleague from HSLS was in isolation while our farmers were punishing at that moment the farmer was punishing him because eight kilometers in a circle there was no one he cared about his country to feed someone at that time the colleague of Hrebak came from self-insulation if the doctor recommended it to him, but counterpart Capak said that you could come to the assembly and raise your hand if one arm was missing. It was a blow to democracy. You mention Putin, and it was terror just terror over this people. Terror on freedoms and rights, violation of the Constitution, colleagues Bujevic, colleagues Bačić and the rest of you who come down here, fellow Pupovac who did not come. It was terror on us mayors, commissioners, public authorities and proud to point out that the mayor of Sinj City, no matter what the law has been passed, that we have to look at the covid of certificates I did not watch, and I am proud that my City of Sinji remained free that did not violate the Constitution and did not abolish human rights and freedoms No matter how full [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] a folder of penalties of terror Gestapo [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Andri Mikulić. [[Intruder President: Thank you very much colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83413	Just the information, so I'm looking at how much time we're standing here now and we'll start at 11.00 then we'll do it when we're done with the free speeches one break and then at 11.00, then the first point will be the Prime Minister's report on the state of Ukraine. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83414	You're the maesters for Ukraine, you'd ask Papundek. The Maester would look at him defiantly and say, "Remember, little man, I'm always the opposite of those who shoot, and for those who shoot." The legendary line of Miljenko Smojje from the legendary "Velo Misto" series, which the legendary Boris Dvornik best described as the EU and NATO countries reacting to Russian aggression on Ukraine. All the dilemmas, all the hesitations that certain leaders had in this case have disappeared, and all the mistakes of the West in relation to Ukraine today seem microscopic compared to the mistake made last week by the Russian Federation. To be clear, those who shoot are Russia, those who are being shot at is Ukraine. We are both Croatia and SDP on the part of Ukraine. This attitude is also shown by our representatives in the European Parliament, our representatives in the HS and all those representing the SDP. As Europe has united on the issue of war in Ukraine, unity should also be shown on the issue of relations with EU candidate countries. We would like to stress that we support the view of the accelerated process of Ukraine's EU accession, but that the status of candidates for BiH and Kosovo should be sought and that some EU members stop dragging and fulfilling the promises they made to Albania and Northern Macedonia, to speed up negotiations with Montenegro and to make it clear to Serbia that they must choose sides. It is our national interest that from a country in Southeast Europe that has declared and proved their intention and willingness to join the EU as soon as possible. War is always unpredictable because important decisions often depend on a human factor. So no one can say with certainty how this will develop further. At least a month after the assassination of Franz Ferdinand, none of the major European leaders of that time spoke of a great war. I believe everyone in history has learned something. Regardless of the further development of the event, the SDP knew in key moments how to act both as opposition and as power. Since participating in the Government of Democratic Unity in '91. The Alliance for Europe in 2004, the joint efforts in NATO entry negotiations and EU accession of differences in political positions for us were not and will not be an obstacle to supporting the important decisions of the government and the president in key situations, especially when they are aimed at those who are shooting and at those who are being shot at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83501	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Grba Bujevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83502	Dear colleagues and colleagues, how important is the civil protection system in Croatia and every organised society is evidence and tonight's departure of the assistance convoy in Ukraine, which was directed by the Republic of Croatia as part of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Ukraine in which nothing was caused by the brutal aggression of the Russian Federation on freedom and independence for us dear and friendly countries of Ukraine. 1st March marks the International Day of Civil Protection when the UN General Assembly declared that day an international day. It joined in 1992 and the government of the Republic of Croatia and decided that it was also the Day of Civil Protection in the Republic of Croatia. Civil protection concerns the prevention, reduction of the risk of disasters, operations, legislative regulations, education, demining, radiological and nuclear security, information communication jobs 112, international activities dealing with the withdrawal of funds from European funds. Today, the civil protection system in the Republic of Croatia is a system organised at local, regional and national level whose activities are aimed at three directions, reducing the risk of disasters, providing a quick and optimal response to threats and dangers, and easing the consequences of major accidents and disasters. The Civil Protection System in the Republic of Croatia has been facing major challenges for several years. The role of the civil protection system in support of the health system was immeasurable in the crown, underlining the activation of the national and local civil protection headquarters, the establishment of the logistics centre of the Civil Protection Directorate, the involvement in setting up and equipping additional facilities for the needs of medical institutions, continued supervision of the implementation of measures, and international cooperation within the framework of the Civil Union Mechanism. It was also the first time in Croatia's history that all 576 local civil protection headquarters were activated at the centre of civil protection. During one period of response to the pandemic, more than 18,000 members of the civil protection system were engaged in the first part of the pandemic. During the battle with the coronaryvirus, two devastating earthquakes occurred in which operational forces and civil protection actors responded in time to the demands from the field, primarily in the search and rescue of human lives, the extraction of ruins, the provision of medical care, and the evacuation and disposal of the population. The management of the civil protection system would not be possible without the unity and synergy of all components of the civil protection system, firefighters, police officers, HGSS, the Croatian Red Cross, the health system, as well as without the support and cooperation of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Experiences so far show that the prerequisite for effective action of the entire civil protection system is well worked out. The disaster risk management strategy is also preceded by 2030 and is part of the disaster risk management action plan. That's unusually important. This will ultimately enable us to withdraw European funds for the equipment and training of operational forces, as well as informing the civil protection system. The large contribution to security and national security is also provided by the 112 operational centres available to citizens and tourists from 0 to 24. Emergency centre operators 112 received about a million and 900 calls to 112 during the year, and due to their professional work they were given a special recognition of the Croatian Tourist Board for outstanding contribution to tourism in 2021. We can conclude that the joint efforts from political, strategic to operational levels have, in a short time, achieved the visibility of the civil protection system in a legislative, preventive, operational and logistics sense. Thank you to all members of civil protection, once again I will list them, police, firefighters, HGSS, Croatian Red Cross, health workers on human labour, effort, time and readiness to make our lives safer. I wish them a happy International Day of Civil Protection and a Day of Civil Protection in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83566	We are going to the fourth debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, respected counterpart Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83567	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few words about the war in Ukraine. I'm listening to some of you colleagues, I'm listening to a gentleman who's in the Liberal Party, so a liberal who calls for a mandatory military term is not very clear to me. As they were all experts on the crown, all of them are now experts in geopoliticals. I agree with the general view of the whole West that it is an inadmissible aggression against Russia, but I cannot agree with the rattling of weapons in our area, especially in Croatia, and calling for a mandatory military deadline is in some way a rattling of weapons. On the other hand, the news of the agency that is coming to us and that we are keeping awake, I hope that we are following saying that this war is nothing like war in Croatia, war in BiH, war in Kosovo, war in Syria or in all the wars we have seen in the last 30 years, nothing like it. And that's where our young men show up, there's General Sacic, there's a lot of people who are in '91. To defend Croatia, which remembers not to let go of the young men without a finished army, could not go to war, could go somewhere else, but not to war. Now it happens that young men listening to us, to you, listening to agency news go to defend Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. We have to remind them, calm them down that it doesn't matter that they can't pull parallels between Croatia and Ukraine. Ukraine is 12 times the size of Croatia, Ukraine has 12 times the population of Croatia. The other day I'm watching a video, watching it every day, but one special, especially interesting video of a city called Berdyansk that has 100,000 inhabitants occupying a Russian army without a shot fired. Afterwards, civilians gather, yell at the Russian army under full military control, and sing the Ukrainian anthem. Now just ask yourself all of you, and remember, I think you all remember except for the younger ones, how long did Vukovar defend himself in which by the way there were 30% of Serbs. So, three months under a complete block. It was a war. Imagine the military occupation of Vukovar that the defeated Croatian forces welcomed the Chetniks with the "Beautiful Ours" that would have happened to them. In this town of Berdyansk, that's not the case. So it is a strange war that cannot be drawn parallel to what was in Croatia. I appeal to all those who are responsible, and I told Minister Bear to make a decision that every man who goes there will certainly be questioned when the war is then the states suggest to their fellow citizens that they do not go to war areas, and we do the opposite. We're doing the opposite. Young people will suffer, they'll die, they don't know where they're going, they'll be disabled, and what's the worst part is the other part, so you have those who go for society, for adventure, but you have the other part that goes, and that's what we're witnessing in '91. If they came to us from the Foreign Legion, like this, like me personally, I'm a personal witness, they didn't care who they were fighting for, they just asked if they were shooting, we'd shoot. So let's not let Croatian youth go into the unknown. You need to stand on the right side and the right side is the west side. That's for sure. I think it's a lot of Russians see, feel and know that this is wrong. But this flagging weapon should not have any Croatian sacrifice in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83568	The fifth debate, excuse me before my colleague Bull's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83569	Well, my colleague Beljak hurt Article 238, and he said that people are going to war without thinking about who they're shooting at. I wouldn't generalize. If we took Jean Nicoleier who came here to Vukovar to defend Croatia, so would those people who went to defend the heart of Ukraine, I wouldn't generalise everything together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83570	Comrade Bulj, I think you've said well, but it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I have to give you a heads-up. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83571	A colleague of Bulj injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. I don't think he said it right. First he's no expert on it, and second he's an expert on everything, so he thinks he's into it. So he didn't say right. And he should also know that his speeches can also inspire someone and tell Bulj is my hero, we're going to Ukraine. So be careful what you say for others, not for yourself. Don't say anything stupid, 'cause that's what other people listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83572	My colleague Beljak, don't say that stupidity, he expressed his position, he said what I noticed was not to be generalized, there are different motives, there are different people. But all right, let's not open up about this debate right now. Can you give up your colleague Bull or what? Come on, thank you very much. Then let's move on. Of course, I have to warn my colleague, Whitey, too. Thank you. And we're going to the 13th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83653	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I won't talk about pensions, but I want to talk about peace. So unfortunately, it would be better to talk about pensions as it started with the right colleagues of Hrelja, but today throughout Europe, the world, and then Croatia and the region in which we are at risk of peace, serious and large because what is happening on Ukrainian soil, war in Ukraine, Russian invasion of Ukraine, the response of Europe, America, is a potential, directly a potential source of major danger to European and world peace. Those who got involved know that. Solidarity with the Ukrainian people that were here and should be spoken of must not be questionable. Preparedness for humanitarian and any other support also, preparedness for political assistance without any remainder. What seems to me to be our additional concern, and at the same time our additional responsibility given that we are located here as a country, in a space that is not consolidated until the end, with countries that are not stabilised until the end, which are divided within themselves and not sufficiently reconciled, it seems to me that the ultimate messages that can be heard from here from some countries, both to them and to us, but conversations like one yesterday by the Prime Minister, while providing arguments that both in BiH and in Montenegro and Serbia and relations between those countries must be imperative. It must be imperative to deal with internal open issues and to remove the possibility that anyone in this geopolitical situation will find out what is the best choice, which is the best way for us neighbouring countries and for the future of the people in those countries. I think that we should do all of our diplomatic and political activities as a member of the Union to give assurances and open space that these countries can choose such a path in which neither they nor we will feel more threats and more dangers coming from a global conflict than less. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will be committed to solidarity with the Ukrainian people, but will also be attached to the search for peace and support of any initiative that will keep peace with us and in our region, build political stability as we want to safeguard it in Croatia, but at the same time seek all those solutions that will stop the war in Ukraine globally, first and then expand it outside Ukraine and preserve peace. Many people here today spoke differently than they said a few days ago. Sobriety is necessary for each of us. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83654	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. We've come to an end with a view, so now we're going to take a break by 11 o'clock, then the prime minister will address us for 20 minutes with the possibility of a replica and then speak to the clubs afterwards. It's 10:39 p.m. We are going to another debate For a just Croatia will be spoken by a colleague, Vrkljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83695	The Honorable President of the Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues. The act is a mad war and a war raid on the Ukrainian people. 24.2.2022.g. Russia has attacked Ukraine and we are likely to face a great war with all the elements of a possible world war. This year's 24.2. is an irresistible reminder of 3.9.'39. The same Russia tore Poland apart at the same time. The world was at that time as shocked as it is today, with generations that have grown up in peace in shock today and often a question can be asked why history repeats itself in Europe. '45. In Western Europe, fascism was brought down, but it was only '90s in Eastern Europe. The years brought down communism, and in the Republic of Croatia we were in '91. Counted and politically defeated communist Yugoslavia, and in '95 And we've won the army. Today we can say that the whole world is a victim. Russia is now destroying the international world order, and the question is how a new world order will be built. World peace is threatened, and when world peace is threatened, and world order is threatened, the least countries are at risk. Europe's response was the unity of European states, the unity of European peoples, especially the emphasis that has been made by Switzerland, Finland and traditionally neutral states, and all together we have shown together with the Croatian power of democracy, that it is greater than the power of arms. Croatia is particularly important to point out that the importance of Croatia's path towards Europe, Croatia's integration into the EU, NATO and soon in the euro area and the introduction of the euro. In these difficult times, the Republic of Croatia has settled in, into the free world and morally and materially, we have the credibility to help the Ukrainian brotherly people. However, it is particularly important not to allow the destabilisation of the Republic of Croatia today, regardless of whether it is a consequence of internal or external action because the interest of the Republic of Croatia is by no means destabilisation. The aggression of Russia is unacceptable. It's a barbaric act in the 21st century. It's an attack on a sovereign state unmarked in the last 80 years. It's annihilation with the entire civilian casualties, the population disintegrating and undermining the world's order. I'm afraid it's a war without returning with the threat of turning into a world war. And that's why I call on Russian intellectuals, Russian scientists, the Russian people who are a great nation, I personally dear, friendly people, to find strength, to get out of irrational and mythomania, and not to allow the formation of Russian national consciousness based on various acts like. Holy Russia against gambling because such myths lead the Russian people into conflict with all neighbours, with the world but also with civilization. The absurdity of that action is just visible through today's Ukraine where '45. The year did to Zelenski as a red armyman defended Ukraine, and today in '22. His grandson, Zelenski, is otherwise Jewish and the president of Ukraine, was attacked by the same Russia. I call upon the Ukrainian people to seize strength and defend themselves. I call upon the Russian people to make it clear that they do not support this war. I call upon the Croatian people to remember 15.12.91. the year when Ukraine in difficult times recognized Croatia a month before both the Vatican and Germany and to be solidarity with the Ukrainian people. And I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to continue to lead the Croatian people and the state as reliable partners of the EU and NATO. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83721	We will now move to a third debate on behalf of the HSLS Club and Reformist respected counterpart Klasic and information, so since a large number of clubs have applied for a position now 15 to 11 plans for the Prime Minister to come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83722	Thank you, well-respected and esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, an attempt by the Russian occupation of Ukraine from the foundation has changed the security architecture of Europe. The belief in Europe as an oasis of security and peace has been run over by tanks headed from Belarus to Kiev. The citizens of Ukraine had to face the cruel reality that their freedom and statehood had to defend their lives. Russia's aggression has shown NATO members that they do not have enough quantity to effectively cover the border with Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. The war in Ukraine shows us from day to day that the numbers are still as important as the equipment of the armed forces. The war in Ukraine has fundamentally changed the European public's attitude towards the military, and at the same time according to the topic of military service. In the event of an outbreak of war or the occurrence of a direct war threat, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may only grow to 35,000 members. About 14,000 active units plus 21,000 reserves. That's not even a far-reaching number to defend the state's territory. Only during the Homeland War did the Croatian army have more than 200,000 members. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it must not be stressed that the military service obligation has never been abolished but has just been suspended by a decision of the October 2007 parliament and is being implemented since 1 January 2008. The current Defence Act provides for compulsory military service, based on Article 47. A constitution that prescribes a general military obligation. The security assessment at the time was that the environment was stable and there were no external threats. Today, the situation is very different and it is very real that it can occur in the context of this crisis in Ukraine and the attempt to political destabilise the country in our immediate neighbourhood. In Montenegro, until recently, there was a coalition with the majority of pro-Russian parties, premiums and parliament presidents coming out of the ranks, and Montenegrin media on a daily basis reported open-ended meetings of pro-Russian politicians and Russian secret service agents. The pro-Russ party openly threatens to demonstrate the roadblock as they say if it will take much more. Republika Srpska is a time bomb, a bomb detector located in Moscow, new security relations have forced even the new German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to give up austerity policies at the expense of former Chancellor Merkel's army and German armed forces within the 2022 budget. Assigns 100 billion euros to be invested primarily in new weapons and equipment. It is a huge change for the SPD party, which in the government's coalitions viewed armed forces exclusively as unnecessary cost. An ever-increasing deterioration in the political and security situation will require significant effective insurance of Croatia's border. Croatia shares as many as 1,111km of border with BiH and will need several times more troops than the current possibilities for its insurance. If NATO forces come to a greater number in BiH to prevent a possible crisis, the security of the state border will remain exclusively our obligation. The war Russia started in Ukraine needs to be taught. In Europe, 15 countries have maintained their obligation to serve the military deadline, but they differ from country to country. Part of the state has a very liberal policy while a very small part of the state implements a policy of calling all military officials. The basic backbones of these systems are a privilege for young people who serve the army because all who serve the military have numerous benefits from the benefits of employment in public services to tax benefits. Croatia has now become an anomaly among European parliamentary democracies with an insufficiently defined legal framework for the management of the armed forces in respect of which there is a court jurisdiction between the two state bodies. The blockade of the authorities of confusion regarding the command of the Croatian Army and the placing of the Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an unspeakable position requires an urgent change of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces to establish the legislative legislation applicable in most other European parliamentary democracies. New political security relations in Europe are also looking for new response measures, a significant long-term increase in budget allocations and the provision of additional recruiting forces literally became a new reality overnight from 23 February to 24 February, both in Croatia and in the EU. I propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia to consider providing additional troops to the recruits, suspended by Parliament's decision of 2007. and under the urgent launch of amendments to the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of Armed Forces in which the legal framework is defined Armed Forces Management. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83733	Now, on behalf of the club HNS and HSU and independent MPs, the esteemed colleague of Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u83734	Your Honor, I'm not a geostrategist, the war touches me deeply and hurts deeply, and that's why I'm going to talk about another topic. After all, the Prime Minister's report follows. The story of the past determines our future in our society is used in different ways and adapted to different situations and falls into life's truths. At one point in human life, that sentence is just as literal and unequivocal. It's the moment when people go or have to retire. It's a life turning point, one moment in our lives that completely changes our lives from all aspects of life's habits, ambitions, incomes, time available, a short-term standard way of life. Facing a pension solution rarely leaves you indifferent, let alone content. And immediately the first outpouring of bitterness. Well, for God's sake, we've worked 35, 37, 43 years, and retirement isn't half the last salary. That's how we get to the first delusion. It's important how much we worked, but it's too important what our salary was in the past, how much money was paid on that salary. Because that, that's exactly what determines our material and in the future. I'll stop there. And as hard as it is to think about the future in this storm of war, I must say that it is the imperative of life and that we must not relax and relativize the future. I often hear from young generations in the third and fourth decades of pension life. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who's gonna meet her? Or if and when we retire, the state will no longer pay. Or I'll have to work for a retirement church until I'm 70. Or whatever I'm saving in the second pillar, it'll all be ruined by the time I retire to the most liberal position, give me a gross salary, and I'll know best how to take care of the old days. This was last said by some of the current pensioners while they received a minimum wage for 20 years and twice as many hands, and today they are fortunate to be protected by the minimum pension institute of 73.13 kuna per year of internship. The time will pass, the pensions will be, the people will be, the attitudes expressed will be shown by delusions and will ask the age where youth has been as it is now. In addition to delusions, attitudes are also an excuse for not thinking about the future. Of course, I exempt nearly 150,000 young people from this assessment who are extremely difficult to live with with small wages, on a minimal, with small children, unresolved housing issues, working on certain times which are very uncertain at present. It's hard to single out anything for the future or think about it. But I turn to all those who could save something for their pension, or the future, other than those 330,000 who do so and in their accounts have more than 5 billion kunas of total assets. To those who do not want, do not know or want to hear that the pension savings in the third voluntary pension rate are the most profitable, certain, that it has been working for 20 years and that in Croatia the most encouraged throughout the EU and beyond and that the contributions are paid from 5.9 to 12.5%. This isn't marketing, this is advice for your better quality future and retirement. Young people, imagine yourself, for saving your own lives is what solves your children's concerns. Why save? Because all of us, so the state, for example, the 5,000 you've paid, we're adding 750 kuna. If you or your employer to whom it is tax-recognized expense savings is increased by the contribution of the fund. There are no restrictions on height, no payment dynamics. You pay when you can and as much as you can. If you do not pay three months or two years your membership is not abolished your funds, you do not pay taxes and are hereditary to the family and the only condition is to start using 55.g. Age, can be later, and then if you really saved up, you can once get 30% of your property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94399	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] It is up to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on the situation in Ukraine. Based on an article. 123. The Rules of Procedure of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit an oral report on the situation in Ukraine. Before that, I will welcome again the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Republic of Vasili Kirilič. And I also welcome representatives of the Ukrainian minority who live in the Republic of Macedonia. [[Applause.]] Welcome. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, I see that a colleague Milanovic litre called for a break. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94400	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club due to the current situation in Ukraine. The Ukrainian people, unfortunately, are historically intertwined with crimes committed against him. One such genocide is also called holodomor, which we proposed to the HS Declaration on behalf of the Ukrainian community in Croatia, which has been awaiting a debate since March last year. Tonight, the Russian Federation continued to shell Ukrainian civilians and thus continued to fill out a list of war crimes committed in the Ukraine area. We are witnessing the killing of journalists, medical workers, the rocketling of residential buildings, hospitals and the use of cast and thermobaric bombs that are banned under the Geneva Convention. We need to talk more about these crimes and share the truth about this war, which is the only goal of obeying the will of the Ukrainians according to the will of great Russia. We have to ask ourselves, will Putin only fit in Ukraine, and is she enough for him? God and Croats, glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94401	The apartment is approved, but we will proceed in accordance with the article. 293b and I will now invite the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, to submit a report on the situation in Ukraine. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94402	The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. A quarter of a century after the Homeland War on European soil is once again an angry war. To the astonishment of the whole world, the 7th day has been nothing caused by the brutal Russian aggression on Ukraine, which began at dawn on February 24th. A day that will tectonically change everything we know about international relations and the international order until that moment. The war of this kind of force and proportions in Europe has not been full for 77 years. By its nature, as a cold and calculated insult to the world order and a harsh violation of international law, it already has far-reaching consequences on the whole world. With this unprecedented act in which Russia attacked the sovereign state, they have been trampled themselves on the basis of which today's Europe based on peace, democracy, freedom and law. Croatia strongly condemns and expresses its full support for the Ukrainian people who, in these difficult moments, are once again dying for European values as well as President Zelenski and Prime Minister Shmyhal [[Applause.]] who are bravely opposed to their people to this insane aggression. [[Applause.]] From minute to minute on television screens, on portals, on social networks, we look at footage of the bombing and destruction of Ukrainian cities, settlements and civilian targets. We witness the earthquake scenes of the terrible bloodshed, the victims of innocent civilians, women, children, old men, and the deliberate glow of fear. More than 700,000 Ukrainian exiles and refugees have already arrived at the EU's borders, desperately seeking refuge and our help. However, despite the superior military force of the aggressor who attacks from all directions and means available, the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people provide heroic resistance. All these scenes in Croatia will be painful memories of the massive Serbian aggression of Milosevic's regime and of the war horrors we have survived. But that is precisely why we know that tough resistance can ultimately defeat the superior aggressor and decide on its own future. It is therefore no coincidence that Croatia is united today in support of Ukraine and in condemning Russian aggression and that both the parliamentary majority and opposition on this issue are on the same side, on the side of justice and freedom. And I therefore congratulate you on all the representatives in the Croatian Assembly on the unity you showed on the occasion of the adoption of the Declaration of Ukraine which you strongly condemned aggression. Unfortunately, this crisis will probably take some time. And in order to be able to support the Ukrainian people in the longer run and remain firm in opposing this military aggression, it is important that we preserve this political unity. Ukraine expects it from us and deserves it. According to the information available, Russian forces have occupied major parts of Ukraine north and northeast of Kiev, where they are also attacking the main Ukrainian city of Kiev, which was woken by sirens by the crowds from Belarus and Russia this morning. The battlefield stretches over 2,000 km. In the wake of the war between David and Goliath, Russia attacks Ukraine with a huge disproportionate force of military forces. After the Kremlin had for weeks convinced that by hoarding forces at the Ukrainian borders, it was not an attack but only a military exercise today that everyone was aware that it was only a deception. Since the revolution of dignity and protests in Majdan in Kiev, Russia has orchestrated riots in the provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk and detected Crimea. I worked on it before I became Prime Minister as head of the European Parliament's delegation to Ukraine and I know very well the opportunities in this friendly country. The first act of this latest and universal aggression took place by Russian recognition of the separatist regions of Donjecka and Luhanska. In particular, it is a cynical excuse for the attack by calling the Ukrainian democratic authorities genocide over the population of separatist regions in the eastern country. For Nazism and for endangering Russia's security, the point is that Russia and its leadership today deny the identity of the Ukrainians and Ukraine, while also correcting the mistakes of former Russian leaders. It is a optic without whose understanding we cannot fully understand what is happening on European soil today. All those who seek justification for the attack on Ukraine, who relativise Russia's exclusive responsibility, should be clearly told that there are no warring parties here. There's only an aggressor and there's a victim. There are also those in Croatia who did not recognise Europe's peace threats in time, but I am convinced that today they no longer have a dilemma. In these exceptional circumstances of war and severe humanitarian crisis, I want to inform you of the principles that we Croatia will be taking in the next period. First is determination. The principle we have shown on our own, which we will show with both our partners in both the EU and the North Atlantic. In the past few days, a series of decisions and restrictive measures have been taken that we have decided to oppose this aggression. As you know, measures have been taken in the financial, banking, energy, transport and visa sectors. The assets of Russia's Central Bank abroad are frozen. Similar measures were taken by members of G-7. 7 Russian banks have been excluded from the SWIFT's global payment system. Despite its size, Russia's gross domestic product is no bigger than the GDP of the Benelux countries, and are already facing a 30% decline in Russian laundry value. In foreign banks, assets of nearly 500 Russian oligarchs and political officials have been blocked. At EU level, air traffic is prohibited by Russian air carriers. This is only the first stage of restrictive measures. They will be sure I am feeling the mood among European leaders, but also the public in our countries continue. It will also prohibit the broadcasting of global Russian televisions by those who, by their propaganda and disinformation, justify aggression on Ukraine and wider disinformation. I would like to stress that the sanctions are primarily directed at decision-makers, not on the Russian people. Also, because of the participation of Belarus in the aggression in Ukraine, there is an extension of sanctions to the country. We have established, on our part, a permanent group to apply and monitor the implementation of sanctions. We also set up a crisis team to implement an intervention plan on gas security measures. The Commission shall monitor the security of the supply of the oil and petroleum products market. We, as you saw before the aggression itself in the context of the energy crisis, brought a € 4.8 billion package to mitigate the effects of energy prices, above all electricity and gas and citizenship and the economy and the most vulnerable groups and pensioners and farmers and fishermen. Today is the moment when we must stand in defense of fundamental principles. The principles on which a free Europe rests, on which a peaceful world rests because those principles in this situation are shared on those systems that are democratic, which respect the rule of law and those that are not. This is kind of a synthesis of what we call a conflict between the democracies of authoritarian systems. We want to defend the principles and the world of democracy, and that is why here we must be principled and solid, and at the same time our determination here is on one example to see how we were lightningly protecting the interests of Croatian citizens, savings, business entities, Sberbanks, which, after the announcement of the European Central Bank, could or should have failed a few days ago, the activity of the government, the CNB with the Single Retirement Committee at EU level, whose part we are because we are on our way to the euro area instead of winding up, we have a recovery of Sberbank Croatia and there is no more panic, no more running on the counters, no raising deposits, there is security of our financial system and public interest. There is also an important message that there is no damage to the Deposit Insurance Agency. It could have been as much as 3.8 billion kuna. We stopped all this because we've been working the day of the night since this crisis escalated. We are, as you know, solid. Solid with the Ukrainian people, solidarity with Ukraine, which is a victim of aggression. We've been leading this policy for years. Not since yesterday, not from 24, we stick to the principle and stick to the policy which Croatia has in its seriousness of what is called responsible policy and responsible political parties, when the mainstream has had for years. And that is why we made decisions last Thursday to help Ukraine in the context of demand through the Civil Protection Mechanism, technical assistance, and we have also made decisions on preparing for the adoption of Ukrainian refugees. By now, about 600 have entered Croatia. We have also established a special expert task force responsible for providing health care. We have established and launched the acquisition of strategic stock supplies for the reception and care of refugees. We've decided to send help in both protective and defence equipment. Croatia also showed its solidarity by keeping its ambassador to Kiev until this morning. Among the last of the EU member states, given the worsening security situation, I am yesterday speaking for what time with our ambassador, Ana Djamic, taking care of her safety, said it is time to leave Kiev and she is on her way to Lvivo today from where she will continue to carry out her duties as ambassador to Ukraine. I want to thank her and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, our consular services that care about every single Croatian citizen who is in Ukraine, many of them have returned, stayed on the road, and some want to stay. [[Applause.]] We take care of both their situation and their safety. We are grateful, of course, to representatives of the Ukrainian minority in Croatia, Ambassador Kirilič for everything you do to help the Ukrainians who will come here, but also to help us understand the colors daily, current events at the level of every hour that happens in your country. The third principle is unity. So, determination, solidarity and unity. I am extremely pleased that we held a meeting Monday in the government with the leaders of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. It was very good to hear that we are all unique here and on the right side of history. I call upon all of us to keep it that way as long as this crisis lasts. We will be unique with our partners and in the EU, we will make sure that this issue and our values, as well as the building of Europe in which strategic autonomy becomes extremely important. It becomes important when it comes to defence policy. It becomes important when it comes to energy policy. It becomes important when it comes to food production and import policy. There are no segments, and in particular two major crises that are driven by this aggression, which is a further energy crisis and a refugee crisis that will not spill over on all of us. On the lives of all our citizens wherever we live in Europe, including Croatia. And that's why, from February 24th, nothing, but nothing is more like it was before. This is a question and a global order. We are active in all multilateral organisations, from the UN in particular the General Assembly, the Organisation for European Security, Cooperation, the Council of Europe and of course these two integrations in which we are agile and active actors. This aggression on Ukraine also speaks a lot about the issue of energy independence. It is only now that we fully understand how far-reaching and strategic the decision was to finally after 40 years of debate in the Croatian public space, and especially in the circles of energy experts to address the issue of terminals for ingested natural gas in Omislj, Krk. Thanks to these 2.6 billion cc's of gas that we can obtain over the year, we ensure the full needs of Croatian households and Croatian economies. At this point at EU level, solutions are being sought for alternative routes of gas supply whether it is Norway, whether it is Algeria, whether it is Libya, that Azerbaijan, that the increased production that exists in the members of the Union, and, of course, to a greater number of orders from natural gas ships. In this respect, Croatia has more security than it would have had if we had no LNG terminal. If we didn't have a LNG terminal today this debate today would be very different, we'd be wondering if we'd have heating in our homes, if our economy would have enough gas. This issue opens up, of course, the importance of strengthening and modernising our defence capabilities. We, as you know, have decided to get multi-purpose combat planes. This is the situation, I think, that even the last skeptic is disarming the argument whether we really need it. This situation also fully justifys the decision of our government and our government's project on the acquisition of combat vehicles and infantry Bradley by better conditions and more vehicles than was originally offered. This situation also speaks of how supply chains will be disrupted in agriculture and what we must do now to provide enough food, enough food in the months ahead. This situation will have a major impact on the global architecture of international relations. We will ask ourselves with the right to how much international law applies today, is it possible that another global or regional hegemon will do the same? It's a fundamental question of the world in the 21st century that most of us probably didn't expect, but it's a legitimate question today, it's a legitimate question today, and we have to take care of it. I want to say that we are with Ukraine, with the Ukrainian people because today the fate of Kiev depends on the future of Europe, all the foundations of the order on which the modern world operates, and therefore I believe that Croatia will, with its experience, not only choose solidarity and it is clear and articulated on the right side and history and rights and morals, because all these values are objectively questioned today. Therefore, supporting Ukraine and respecting the courage of the Ukrainians not to flee from tanks, not to give in to blackmail, not to die their heads, to be inspired by love for their country, as the Croats were in '91. In the Homeland War, let's be with Ukraine and the Ukrainians today. Glory to Ukraine... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94403	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now move on to replicas, there are 30 of them, I invite you to a reasoned and dignified debate, first order of business, colleague Celic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94404	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the Croatian people know very well what it means to fight freedom, which means to fight against a much more powerful aggressor. Today, all of Croatia is with the Ukrainian people, today it is not only in the HS but in the entire Croatian society, unisoning support for the struggle for the proud Ukrainian people to finally achieve freedom. Pope Francis said that every war is a shameful capitulation in front of the forces of evil. We who were 30 years ago. We're kind of looking forward to this war of horrors going through in these places, and we're kind of looking forward to that war bringing instability to our space. I therefore give special support to you and everything you do to the government of the Republic of Croatia and we hope and believe in the freedom of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94405	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94406	Thank you very much. As you have evoked our experience, such as this time to stick to those fundamental principles and fundamental values that we stand by and live by, we will be with Ukraine and with the Ukrainian people and I appreciate that you also mentioned the words of Pope Francis and his messages that we have heard and understood very much. Let's all be together with Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94407	Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94408	Thank you, Your Honor, President HS. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, my question is: The replica about the public may not be so visible an aspect so-called hybrid action related to this aggression and war in Ukraine. In fact, in the media space not only in Croatia but also in the environment of individual individuals, we have one nonsensic that NATO is actually guilty of this aggression and that the Russian military is destroying and killing and destroying Ukraine itself and that it comes to an ideological inquisition of NATO, and we know that this same NATO always has the mandate of the UN Security Council for all of its operations, so I am curious in your opinion whether it is excessively the thesis that these and such individuals are consciously or unconsciously putting into service and a campaign of hidden discrimination on NATO itself or is it common in this kind of public political discussion? I'm curious to know what the motive for such a thing is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94409	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94410	We live in democracy, we live in freedom everyone has the right to speak their mind, but anyone who has experience who knows backgrounds, who knows who and what they say and when they speak very well can recognize both motives and interests. Ukraine is certainly not a country that deserves the concept of neutralisation, and neutralisation translated means the lack of its armed forces, the lack of democratically elected political leadership that would only decide with its people about their fate because this is what this is all about. Those who say this is all because of NATO or because of the possible expansion of NATO simply misinformation, it is not true. NATO is a defence alliance, NATO is not an offensive alliance. Ukraine is not a NATO member and does not fall under the article. 5th and collective security. That's why we're seeing what's happening right now. Hence, responsibility is upon those who utter these words It's up to us to call them out clearly. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94411	My colleague, BArtulica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94412	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I agree with much of what you have said and I support absolutely government decisions to specifically help Ukraine in this situation, including the willingness to see refugees. I am convinced that Croatia will show its great heart as at the time of the war in BiH, we do not need to prove ourselves to anyone in particular. However, I would refer to LNG and the strategic importance of that terminal. Despite the resistance that this project has been implemented to the end, it is now showing how strategically important this gas terminal is. My question concerns the security of the facility itself, which the government is doing to ensure to the end the gas flow and that everything is going according to plan because I'm afraid in these circumstances there is a threat that someone is trying and something here is sabotaged. Or don't God do it with Krk? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94413	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94414	Thank you very much. I'm pleased to see you agree with most of what I was saying in the introduction. Of course we are taking care of the security of this strategic facility, I have said several times that here is the opening of the LNG terminal last year in January Croatia completely changed its position on Europe's energy map. In that respect, I think it is clear that we are taking care of the safety of this facility without a lot of talking. And we make sure that it has been realised not only because we have received part of the co-financing from eu funds but by a political decision and by choosing our government to give concrete means to participate both HEP and Plinarro and that thanks to such moves and such decisions today we can see much more calmly the issue of gas supply as one of the key energys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94415	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94416	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. With support, full support for the Ukrainian application for EU membership is important to address countries in our neighbourhood as well. Trust in membership promises and in the accession process at the end of the day in these countries has been seriously damaged for some time, and some leaders in these countries such as Milorad Dodik have not only openly supported Putin and Russia but Dogik, for example, today in an interview with defenders Kiev, called himself an armed gang. In the past, this government has seen such leaders, I must say, despite our warnings, as partners in achieving some interests in BiH, for example. Will you continue to think of them as partners or will you change something about them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94417	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94418	As regards support for Ukraine in its European aspirations, I will remind you that just during my visit to Kiev in December, together with President Zelensky, I signed the Declaration of Support for the European Perspective of Ukraine. A smaller number of only Member States have done such a thing formally. I think this is particularly important today when after such aggression we see many others who did not take that kind of political message and signals to join what we were saying. There were also very negative comments from political actors on the move, even ridicule. Now it turns out that we were right, and those who were smiling were wrong. The question for what reason they did it. As for the state of Southeast Europe, of course we also support their ambitions towards Europe, as regards this stance by Dodik on Ukrainian defenders, I do not condemn him in two sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94419	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94420	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I express my compassion and solidarity with the Ukrainian people and welcome the rapid reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in sending humanitarian and technical assistance as well as the willingness to receive refugees because it is estimated that after II. World War II could be the biggest exodus of refugees. There is also a concern that the crisis from Ukraine could be shed on our closer neighbourhood because we are witnessing that Russia has supported anti-democracy and nationalist forces in some countries in the environment, and that there are those politicians who are doing everything to disperse BiH or those who, for example, are in favour of establishing a Serbian world in Southeast Europe as a single political people. All these are some signals that lead us to think whether we are safe enough, whether our citizens should be concerned and what is being taken into account in this segment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94421	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94422	We are sure to take care of stability and security in our immediate environment in the countries of Southeast Europe is our policy, policy of peace, policy of developing good neighborhoods, developing support for these countries to meet the criteria on their way to the EU and towards NATO those who are not or who want to go towards NATO. That is why we have made a number of major steps, including you and I, when we were MPs, here's a fellow Stier who is behind you, more than others, that BiH's application for EU membership happens, and we know how much resistance that initiative was then, and among many Member States, and we will continue to do so. As for the preparedness and monitoring of our entire security system, of course, that all services are taking care of the vigilance, taking care of what is happening in our environment, Croatia is safe today, we would not want to see the spilling of this conflict into the country in our environment and we are sending a political message to everyone to be wise and to refrain from any incidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94423	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94424	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, the Honored Prime Minister of the Government, so certainly we are all who have shown a clear attitude and clear support for all processes that are related to Ukraine. But at a meeting that was Monday and beyond today, through today's debates, you will have the opportunity to hear it. But now there's that but. So all the signals we have the opportunity to hear and see, and I will continue like my predecessors, talk about a problem that can escalate in the Western Balkans, that is, in our nearest neighborhood. Deutsche Welle also published today, an article that warns about this aspirations for the creation of Serbia's Greater Serbia, which has not been completed since the 1990s, which is between Serbia, Serbia and Dodik. So what I'm saying is, we all looked calmly and thought there would be no war in Ukraine, that this war would happen. It was tried to solve it in different ways at the tables, and we saw it didn't work out. Now it's time to try sitting at the table and see [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That it doesn't happen to us in the nearest neighborhood. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94425	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94426	Thank you, well-respected MP Mrak-Taritash, here, as you can see, we have come lightningly before HS, teaching our conversation on Monday, and I think that this dialogue will continue between the government and the parliamentary majority and the opposition. As for stability in our neighbourhood, I will repeat, we want peace, we want cooperation, we want all these countries to go towards a path called the EU, those who want to travel to NATO, we want everyone in this situation, but just everyone, to refrain from any incidents, from any flammable rhetoric, from anything that could destabilise a situation that is tense anyway, in at least 3 countries at this point in our environment, and Croatia is here as a member of the Union and as a member of NATO, a country that will make the greatest effort to maintain stability. This is very important and should not happen if we have two parallel crisis hotspots in Europe at the same time. This chaos is enough right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94427	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94428	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. We have often talked in this House about the advantages of EU membership, they often refer to EU funds, but you, too, have been able to remind us that we are primarily a Union of values. And there is a question of solidarity, and in the speech itself, you pointed out the determination, solidarity, unity and us as member states and all countries, absolutely came to terms, we saw it on the EU Council, we saw it yesterday at the EU Parliament session, with a very emotional speech by President Zelinski, and we saw also how much stronger integration values are, and that Croatia is heading towards the Eurozone, to save Sberbank, this one, that we have opportunities, and also Commissioner Ferreier said that European funds could also be used to fund European refugees and also, that for the next year, 100% will be used i.e. co-financing of funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94429	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94430	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That's all true. I think the dynamics of activity, the speed of reaction, the comprehensiveness of the reaction was at national level, I think we are here in Croatia, but also all partners at EU level, this time above all of the previous reactions in any crisis we have seen, a consensus politically that is at the highest level very clear, determination to help, a willingness to accept Ukrainian refugees. You have seen that according to some estimates there may be between 4 and 5 million people who will leave their homes, we have never had such a situation before, even in the Eastern Mediterranean and Western Balkan routes and a completely different character, but here it is really clear that support, openness and desire for systematic support will be what will lead both Croatia and the Union in all aspects of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94431	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94432	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia. The involvement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you as president, from the first moment on, nothing caused aggression and invasion of the Russian Federation on us friendly and independent Ukraine clearly shows what a quick reaction means in the full sense of that word. Tonight, a convoy of assistance headed towards Ukraine to send a clear message to both the people and the leadership of Ukraine that we have a strong partner and allies in Croatia and I am sure, knowing that this is a clear signal to everyone in Ukraine that the Croatian government, you, as prime minister, want to help them end this situation in which we all want Ukraine to remain an independent country on the ground of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94433	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94434	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Right, I expect that, not only the government's activity and institutions here will show great solidarity, but that the Croatian people, numerous associations, civil society, many actors who want to help, whether from the world of economy, sport, art, academic community, all parts of Croatian society, will contribute. Countless are those who appear to different ministers, representatives of the government, our resolutions, who want to give their pain to help, from hotelers, from businessmen, and I think that here we will all be unique in making our contribution, a proportionate contribution to the care of those Ukrainians who are forced to leave their homes, and also to help those who are determined to stay in their homeland, defend and live in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94435	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94436	Dear Croatian Prime Minister, here is Croatia and the EU face a number of challenges, one of which you mentioned yourself, which is to provide enough food and food products for all of our citizens in the coming months. But given the very likely arrival of a number of Ukrainian refugees, whether it's a few tens of thousands or maybe 100 and 200 thousand, everyone's welcome, I'm curious to know what the situation is, what the situation with the strategic stockpiles of the Republic of Ukraine is, whether they're in a hurry to increase their capacities because we know that in recent disasters, especially at Banovina bar in the first weeks, they didn't find it best not to surprise us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94437	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavliček, you who come from Vukovar, and there are more representatives you know that part of the most responsible representatives of the Ukrainian minority is right in your city, that they are active, that they are well integrated into Croatian society, that they contribute to the improvement of our joint efforts and we greatly appreciate their role and their contribution. Here, we met with them just before the session of this meeting today, i.e. this point of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. You saw in a government meeting on Monday that was completely dedicated to Ukraine that we brought one of the points concerning the strengthening of all needs relating to supplies, especially with the intention of caring for refugees and exiles from Ukraine that will come to Croatia. So we will be fully prepared on that side to give all the services what it takes for people to feel good here. And that they have everything they need. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94438	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94439	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, it is difficult to control our emotions today, I must say that I am very sad but also proud Croatian that we are this sad I am being attacked by one of our friendly countries of the Russian aggressor, nothing caused by children, old and innocent people, and I must say that I am proud because you had a firm attitude, you had the determination to stand on the right side and help everyone, all the way to the Ukrainian people. I believe that the Ukrainian people with the European community will, with God's help, truly defeat the Russian aggressor and live happily and freely in their own country. Once again, thank you for truly showing character unlike some whose character it is. He disappeared along with them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Slava Ukraine, lived Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94440	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94441	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I said this is a moment where, regardless of the price, we have to stand by fundamental principles, although it may require both denials from both our citizens and our way of life, this is a situation where we can't have dilemmas. This is where the personal comfort must be in the other plan. Here they must be in the first place of principle, responsibility, in the final trace of history that we are all writing now in such an unpredictable brutal aggression that Ukraine is experiencing from Russia. I repeat, nothing caused, nothing at all, let's not forget that. There were no provocations, and that is why it is important that we speak facts in this communication entity, and we do not listen to propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94442	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94443	Thank you. First of all, I want to express our solidarity with Ukraine and with Ukrainian citizens and citizens again, and that is why, given the evident situation of an increased number of refugees who we assume will come more and more to the Republic of Ukraine every day, but also because of our citizens we would like to know in what aspects there is a risk to the food security of the Republic of Croatia. And so we ask you to inform us which food products we have imported from Ukraine and Russia in significant quantities over the past 3 years. For example, there are imports of a fairly significant number of semi-certain bakery products from Poland and Germany, and whether in view of the importance of Ukraine in relation to the export of cereals, there is a risk to food safety. Namely, we think that Croatia should prepare a myth plan immediately risks to food supply chains and invest more [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and invest more in our food safety or ensure intervention [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] import. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Raukar.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94444	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94445	Thank you very much. It is known to all that Ukraine is the wheat of Europe, there is no dilemma, ultimately and the color of the Ukrainian flag tell about what it is and how much it is. And that is why I did not miss the opening presentation to talk about possible repercussions for what is called the food aspect of this crisis. Energy prices rise in food prices, that's one aspect. This situation may also lead to further disturbances in supply chains at Europe level. And that's why we, from the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture, from the point of view of supply, from the aspect of economic operators that are very important in this story also see that in any way we do not endanger the needs of our food market. You've seen the package we're going to bring, which will cut the VAT even further than it is now. So we'll also ensure a better price and sufficient quantity. It's a task which is One of the government's tasks in this crisis. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94446	Comrade Hood, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94447	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I think that today we are all proud of Croatia's functioning and looks reliable, solid and stable as a reliable member of the EU and NATO alliance. Croatia is once again on the right side of history and today we are fighting all the democratic states of the world to help friendly Ukraine preserve Europe's international order and security. All this is at stake and this consistency of Croatian state policy should be maintained as well as unity in the implementation of European foreign security policy. But in view of all of the government's policies on the issue of Ukraine in the past, even just 10 days ago, I ask you, will the Croatian public be spared the cacophony produced by the President of the Republic who, just 15 days ago, mocked the possibility of Russian aggression, which the one who warned about it declared inaccessible, who did not only warn about the possibility of Russian aggression but went further by warning extremists in Ukraine and who placed Ukraine in the Russian interest zone in the evening of this aggression, while Kiev declared Moscow's suburbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94448	My fellow Hood, thank you very much. Please stick to the time, you started dating, for a few seconds, but don't be too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94449	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In my opening speech, I said that there were those on the political scene in Croatia who had significantly different views than the consistent and fully correct attitude of the Croatian government and all our assessments. I believe that this is a moment in which we must give opportunity to those who have not been precise enough to settle on the right side of the principle and help us with their actions, even with our openness, and even with a certain restraint on political criticism for which space is one-off, in an enormous amount at this time to ensure unity. We want unity on this subject. Croatia has never had unity in this topic, there have been these outbursts, there have been poor assessments, there have been poor sentences spoken. I call upon all to be unique in the period ahead, which will be difficult and demanding and long.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94450	Thank you. Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94451	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I believe I speak on behalf of all health care professionals when I say that we, with our maximum expertise, humanity and heart, are actually with our citizens and in peacetime and at the time of the pandemic, and here we have witnessed war times. We will also be with all our hearts with all those hundreds, including thousands of citizens of Ukraine who have left their countries and, their country, will come to us. However, given the real danger of a nuclear attack, I ask you, is our health care system ready in case this occurs, are the instructions prepared not only for healthcare professionals but also for citizens? And one more thing, it is probably known to all of us that our citizens have been frequently coming to the pharmacy for the last 2-3 days and looking for pills or potassium iodine pills that can't actually be obtained just as well as a prescription, should they be very detailed about which, when using potassium iodine, which are possible side effects, which are possible allergies, are we all prepared for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94452	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94453	Thank you very much. As you saw at the government meeting on Monday, it was concluded that the Minister of Health formed an expert working group at the level of the Minister of Health, which he had already brought on the same day, so the group is functional, the Secretary of State, Mr. Dulibic, and there are representatives of different health institutions who have the task of taking care of all of these aspects that you spoke of, above all, to ensure adequate health care that will certainly be needed for older people who will come from Ukraine and children to have what is necessary. As for this second element you were talking about, which is about nuclear weapons threats, I sincerely hope that such a scenario will not happen because then it would literally end everything we know as the world at this point. We will make sure that the Ministry of Health takes care of all needs needed in the variant of all scenarios, but I hope that this will not come to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94454	Thank you. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94455	Mr Plenkovic, you have filed an HS report on a war in Ukraine on which Croatia has no real influence in either military or economic power. The very name of this report speaks of the disorientation of your government because you submit a report on the situation in Ukraine, but you do not submit a report in Croatia. I remind you that you are paid by Croatian citizens and you answer them. Yesterday it was announced that another minister was under investigation, two weeks ago you were arrested by a minister You should have resigned a long time ago, but in any case, you've already had to report the level of corruption you've made possible. [[Please, please, just, just a little bit, just a little bit.]] because you have been the Prime Minister for 6 years, and this corruption threatens the lives of millions of Croatian citizens on a daily basis. [[Intruder: Collars and colleagues please, please]] Why don't you file a report and report on all your government members' affairs so far, as well as evidence of your personal involvement in corruption, such as CERRP and Klobuchar's lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94456	Thank you very much. Just a little please colleagues and colleagues, everyone is saying, this is Parliament, as they think we should speak, the citizens will judge how appropriate it is or not appropriate. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Deur, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94457	Thank you, Your Honor. 238, here's the esteemed representative Kristo. I don't think this is the moment you've been talking about, Croatia is sympathetic and the Prime Minister has brought out something that, we can be as a people proud that we can really see the time that we've been living as a people in the '90s. I believe you may not understand it, or you don't understand it now in your explicit life that you have or do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94458	Comrade Deur, you know for a fact that this was a replica, and I have to give you a warning. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94459	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister. My colleague Kristo is injuring 238. Rules of Procedure. I think instead of joining this and taking care of the Croatian citizens and all the efforts that have been made, I think you missed and not only the subject but you missed the century when you talk about this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94460	A fellow Katičić as well as a colleague of Deura's. Here comes another colleague, Rasdic, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94461	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure by Katičić article 238. Insulting and disdaining speakers. The Croatian Parliament was very clear with 133 votes for, including the colleague's voice, to support the declaration and to give clear support to Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. But we won't let you use Ukrainian tragedy as a fig leaf for crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94462	My colleague Rasdic, you get, you also get a warning. This is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now let's move forward with the president's reply. Comrade Deur, here you go, one more violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94463	Mr. Rasputic, you have, in 238, you have your time in the Parliament as you had your time many years before this Parliament. And you often did not understand what the Croatian people needed, but you understood your time and your feelings. You're the only one who can take Bruce Lee along right now, maybe that's the only situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94464	Comrade Deur, I urge you all to stand down with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to leave the debate to go its course, not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Here's the Prime Minister's reply to the replica. My colleague Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94465	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, for calling me by my last name. So, your presentations are famous. They're vermin, untrue, accusing, slanderous, inappropriate, with a missing theme and no arguments. I don't know who's writing them to you, 'cause everybody's saying you're not writing any of this stuff you're reading. You know that better than I do. So I'll tell you if you want what we've done. Unlike you who haven't done anything, you have 10.4% GDP growth in 2021. Maybe only Ireland will be above us. You have net wages per employee in 2021 in the fourth quarter of 7489 kuna. That's never been the case. You've got enough vaccines, you've got the best tourist season, you've got four days of ridding and destroying Sberbank. We work, you obstruct. It's a famous model. We win, you lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94466	Thank you very much. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Comrade Vidovic-Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94467	Yes, Mr. Jandrokovic, articles 33 and 124 have been injured. You don't usually do your job. The way you run the session is devastating and I would say in the context of parliamentaryism at the bottom. Mr. Prime Minister is here to answer counseling questions, not to insult MPs. You were obliged to warn him that he was obliged to answer, not to offend the intercessors. [[Intruder President: Fellow Vidovic Kristo...]] You didn't throw him out of the assembly, but you had to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94468	Comrade Vidovic-Kristo, please sit down. The Prime Minister told the truth, he didn't insult you. Please sit down. My colleagues, Peovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94469	In 238, what I wanted to refer to as the prime minister is insulting the MPs, the president of Parliament also insults MPs and MPs. You can't tell her that the prime minister told the truth when he was talking about his colleagues and colleagues that they were vermin. But why did I answer? So again, it's being manipulated by GDP, and GDP growth hasn't happened. So we're talking about the fall, the biggest GDP drop in Croatia last year compared to the year you refer to. You also manipulate pay growth and don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94470	Comrade Peovic, thank you very much. You're getting a warning. It's interesting how it's normal for MPs to take offenses to, say, the Prime Minister or the President of the Parliament, so that's okay, and when the answer comes from the other side, that's not right. Give me a little balance on the criteria. Let's move on with the replicas. Comrade Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94471	The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are rightly concerned with the way this crisis and war will spill over to their lives. With some of your statements, you have deepened that concern. Namely, you said that the Croatian Army has raised the level of alertness. It is a term that has unequivocal meaning in the Law on Defence, in its Article 76 and thus the consequences of the mobilization of the Croatian Army. Therefore, the statement ended on the cover of all the media. Afterwards, the president of the Republic's denial that you asked for the army to be raised to a level of alertness. Since it is extremely sensitive times where we have to keep an eye on every word spoken, and mostly military terminology I will ask you here what exactly you meant by this because you have really alerted Croatian citizens like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94472	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94473	Dear MPs Selak-Raspudic, I assume, once again as Milanovic's spokeswoman, you had the opportunity to follow the context of that statement. So, based on what the Chief Staff is doing, the Croatian Army has raised the first degree of protection. And what do you think the Croatian military, police, intelligence agency, military-security intelligence agency should do under these circumstances, to maybe go to Seattle? To go on vacation, to close their eyes, to cover themselves with a pillow and pretend like nothing's going on. And what do you think others do? Therefore, this pursuit of formulas of Semantic alertness, I think we're serious enough with everything we're doing, and if you want to look for your little 10 seconds of attention somewhere, it's your right. Follow well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94474	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94475	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The courteous European face and rhetoric quickly disappeared as soon as you encountered the first justified criticism of what you say and the way your corrupt government is acting. It would have been much more civilized and serious if you'd admitted your own failure and explained to the Croatian citizens who have the right to think of it, not that you'd been able to get away with cheap flossules by potentialing your conflict with the president. which at this point is the least we need. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94476	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the replicas, Comrade Raspadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94477	As I have already said, HS and the Croatian people showed unequivocal solidarity and support to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people at the end of last week, and that will be the case. So there's nothing important to add. But what we need to talk about today in Parliament is the state of Croatia and the state of security in Croatia. The representative said in Croatia that if the Croatian government said it was reliable, solid and stable, it was insecure and unstable. Ten days ago, you were arrested by one minister, today you are required to remove immunity from another minister, the Deputy Prime Minister is under investigation, another minister is directly charged with the first associate. In such a situation, and in such a globally insecure situation, it is obvious that your government is full of corruption and that these people are blackmailing and controversially unstable who knows from whom, including the secret service, can also be Russian. What do you think you're gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94478	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94479	Thank you very much. You've quite easily moved on to the thesis that the assembly is unique. I, as I recall only a dozen days ago, should have waited from one half of HS for what Milanovic thought about the Ukrainian issue. What did you forget? Do we remember that? I remember very well, I have a fresh memory, I hear well, I see well and I analyze messages well. By the way, if it weren't for someone else being blackmailed, if it weren't for someone else under pressure, if it wasn't for someone else's influence? This government certainly isn't. What the government would show in all these crises was that it would be stronger than all the crises, that it would be there for Croatian citizens, for their improvement, for jobs, for the economy and for security. Where you'll be in that story, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94480	We have a breach of the rules of procedure, colleague Raspadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94481	238th Insultation and Disdainment of MPs. Where I'm going to be in this story is irrelevant, like where you're going to be, will you be where Ivo Sanader is, where Jadranka Kosor is on the sidelines, whether or not you'll be drawn from HDZ by the same people who are clapping at you right now, I don't care. Answer the question. These people are being blackmailed, they end up in prison, they're being investigated, they're asking you to remove his immunity right now. In a situation like this, you don't need people like that in power. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94482	You get another warning from your colleague Rasdić, so you will lose the right to speak. A colleague named Zekanovic is now reporting for a breach of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94483	Art. 238, here's what I'm listening to, and now I'm saying whether or not I'm going to pick up, but here's what I need to do to comment on my colleagues and colleagues, the Rasdic married couple, my colleague Vidović Kristo. I'm asking you to stay on Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94484	Your colleague Zekanovic is being warned that this was not a violation of the rules of procedure. Let's move on, colleague Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94485	Okay, if we're done fighting internal enemies, related to the current situation in Ukraine. What has the government done so far in the field of protection of the population of the Republic of Croatia in the event of nuclear war? So since we're sending out humanitarian aid and military aid, we've settled in those countries that Putin threatened to see what we haven't eaten before. There is a likelihood that in the event of a nuclear war, we would be one of the goals, not to mention even ordinary air raids on the Krško nuclear power plant. So if there are conversations with the Slovenian side about anti-aircraft defence, is there any plan? And in all things, you should report a lot more to people in view of what the other night mentioned, which is to look for supplies of potassium iodide. Is the health system even ready? People are afraid for a reason. And do we have any plan? In which state is our country in question because we cannot rely on some rationality I hope that won't be your answer, rationality Putin. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94486	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94487	Dear MPs, Peovic. I was informed that you were the only one in HS who wasn't in favour of the Ukraine Declaration. Maybe you know more about this rationality than I do? Maybe it would be useful to discuss how you're the only one against it, and everyone's in favor? What's your motive, I really don't know. I don't know, is it possible that what the esteemed representative Zekanovic said wasn't that you were living on another planet? I hope you don't alarm the public and shed fear of nuclear attacks. I told you already the civil protection system is awake, prepared, expert group at the Ministry of Health is awake and alert, all other services are awake and ready. And communication with Slovenia on the issue of Sberbank, on the matter of political stance, on all possible aspects of this crisis is practically several times at the weekly level at at the highest level you can imagine. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94488	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure again, the first colleague is Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94489	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238. Demeaning of MPs. What I was, so I was abstentioned to the Prime Minister, I wasn't against the declaration and you're cheating on the public. That's the first one. Another thing if you've already started calling and looking for internal enemies and feeding your political popularity on this extremely dramatic geopolitical situation then remind your colleague who is sitting behind you the Grlic Radman who recently called Putin in Croatia for an interview. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94490	You get another warning too, and you won't be able to speak anymore. Now it's my fellow Highdukovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94491	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Neither I nor we from the Social Democrats Club had a single moment of doubt on which side we should be together with my colleague Bušić but I was on the first day of the start of the war with our Ukrainian friends and we told them what you had actually finished your speech with, which is "Glory to Ukraine! Glory...," but it is no longer just a Ukrainian greeting, when you say it means glory to democracy, glory to freedom, glory to peace, and therefore I say, glory to Ukraine. I'm glad you brought it up. Anica Janic, she really is the heroine of our diplomacy and I wonder who said that diplomats can't be heroes. I wish her a happy arrival in Liviv. And finally, one question for you, Prime Minister, the Croatian Post Bank bought Sberbank. However, because of the suspension of payment traffic, I think it is good to know that the Croatian public should know who that money was paid for, from whom exactly did she buy it from?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94492	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94493	Thank you very much. I'm glad we're politically on the same line and I appreciate it and I follow it. So I'm not generalizing when we talk about comments 10 days ago, 15 days ago, but those who know what they're saying have been recognized, you're not among the teams. As for Ambassador Jamic, she's great, she's experienced, she's loyal, she's brave and she's done a lot for Croatian citizens, but together with our policy and with constant consultations she's sent a message to our friends in Ukraine, that she's been among the last, as far as I understand two or three EU ambassadors who were in Kiev this morning. And it doesn't matter and it will stay. As for the HPB and the Sberbank, so the Single Renaissance Committee based on the fact that we are in the banking union is the one who ran the process, the CNB, the government, 71 million kuna, all quiet, these funds are the ones that were offered in currency, and there were three other banks that were offered to buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94494	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94495	Thank you very much. Unpreserved support in the fight for the freedom of the Ukrainians. We here must ask one key question. In this fight, what about Croatian citizens? What about the Croats, what about the people who will feel this crisis in many ways? From the threat we have right here in the neighborhood to the worst, which is possible to collect all food and food products. At this point, we're not self-sufficient. Prime Minister, we have a number of challenges ahead of us. Personally as a man and everyone in the Assembly will defend the freedom of Ukraine and will advocate freedom, however, we face challenges and solutions. This morning there's over 12 kuna oil, 12.5. The indicators will say that soon they'll be maybe a third more expensive, We need to have solutions for this urgently. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94496	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94497	Thank you very much. It is good that you too support this truly broad consensus that exists. As for Croatian citizens and their situation or our economy, I think we have already made a series of moves in this crisis that have shown us what our priority is. Number one is, we've limited the price of oil derivatives twice, they're also limited at this point, thus preventing further impact on both the businessmen and the citizens. A 4.8 billion package of its fiscal part, part of which is direct subsidies, part of which is specific support, pensioners, fishermen, farmers, citizens, economies, consumers, all those who are in this chain are part of the priority concern that the government is doing and we will continue and whatever challenges they are, we will always find solutions because we have proved it in these six years. There was no situation, which we didn't find solutions for, and they were very challenging and we're going to ask for your support. And be not afraid of it; nothing bad will happen to you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94498	Thank you very much. A fellow Bull, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94499	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. 238 demeaning me as a representative. I've always been on the right side, Prime Minister. When the gorilla was in Croatia and started in Ukraine and in other countries. Therefore, do not prove that you are glad that I am on that side of justice. I'm talking here about the problems we have inside the Republic of Croatia, and these are the problems we're going to have with a number of additions and inflation. ... So, and don't just give the MPs a little bit of a hint. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you're the ones who are doing the division right now in this assembly [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're laughing, Prime Minister. [[I'm a friend of mine.]] There was a time when you... [[Agreement: colleague Bulj, you get.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94500	You get a warning, there really wasn't any damage to the Rules of Procedure, so I don't understand your motives, but okay. Please, please, Prime Minister. Let's move on. A colleague of Bencic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94501	Thank you. So as the Green-Left Block Club, we've pointed out repeatedly that we're interested in assessing the impact of war in Ukraine... on the supply chains in Croatia, especially in the food and energy sectors, and one of the risks to the food sector and supply comes from the Forten group. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Please, please.]] We have spoken here several times and warned about the risks involved in the takeover of the majority stake in ex Agrokor, i.e. now fortens by Russian banks, the Sberbanks of Russia and VTB. We were particularly concerned, of course, about the fact that Forten owns agricultural land, more than 30,000 hectares, with more than 30,000 hectares running, and now that the issue of Sberbank, Europe by taking over from HPB, is resolved, I'm curious that the state will show interest in buying a stake in Forten's group in the event of the collapse of Sberbank Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94502	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94503	Thank you very much. So, we were only 3.5, I think, a month in the term of the first government and it happened because of ownership errors and bad business, a crisis that threatened the bankruptcy of Agrokor, a reflection on all suppliers, employees, family farms and we prevented and solved it. The company is there, gradually returning to market conditions, we are in constant contact with Forten's Administration, at this point they are quite stable and when it comes to liquidity and when it comes to ownership structure, I remind you, this Sberbank that we were talking about earlier, is not the same one that owns it. The position of the owner and the bank is not the same and at this point its business is fully functional without any difficulty, as you can see, whether it's the food part, whether it's the retail part, whether it's the processing part, Intruder: Thank you./... it works normally so will be and we'll worry about it working.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94504	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94505	Dear Prime Minister, I am extremely pleased to have a consensus in the Croatian Parliament, although it may not be a full consensus, here are colleagues from MOST who are slightly different attitudes, but what I must point out here is that there is one potential danger, more colleagues have already talked about it, and it is about the threat of Vladimir Putin with nuclear weapons. Of course, we will not spread panic, but still in the context of the military assistance that Croatia is giving Ukraine, and I am very much in favour of any help here, and I want to hear your attitude or what is the position of Brussels on these threats of Vladimir Putin and here again to point out that I am extremely pleased that we as a Croatian Parliament have made it loud and clear that we are in the NATO Pact and that we are the West.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94506	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94507	We said what we believe in, what we have advocated, what there has been a consensus of the majority of the call of this Croatian Parliament over the past three decades and at times like this, these challenges, these divisions, I think it is important that we show it in practice. Our solidarity and support has been manifested in several ways, as well as in sending primarily protective equipment, as well as certain assistance in pedestrian weapons because Ukraine asked for help. She asked all the allies, asked EU members, asked NATO, each contributed as much as she could and as much as she could. As far as these other threats are concerned, I think we've already talked about them, and of course they're being discussed and analyzed. The fact is that intelligence here was, first of all, reliable. I guess he was just waiting for the Olympic truce to end. The war doesn't start on Wednesdays in Europe, but if it isn't Wednesdays it can do Thursdays. That's what happened. And that's the height of the cynicism we've been listening to in messages these past days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94508	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94509	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister may be able to achieve some tactical victories, but he cannot do so on the strategic agenda especially if we are unique to all who are on the side of freedom and democracy. And I would stress that there are three important levels of this unity. One is the unity of the West, so America and the EU. Those who thought there was no more room for NATO were wrong. Those who thought Europe needed to get away from America or America were wrong, and this is what's happening today. EU unity and then unity of course and political scenes in each individual member. And I think that in this respect we should stress the importance of what we are doing today and what we voted on the other day in the Croatian Parliament, show this unity and that is the role that Croatia is responsible for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94510	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94511	Thank you, well-respected counsel Stier, I think that a show of unity at the level of partners within the EU and allies at NATO level is indeed undivided. And personally taking part in, at this extraordinary meeting of the council Thursday evening, and especially during the address of President Zelenski, you feel at a political moment that everyone is aware that although they are shocked by what is happening, how important it is that this unity of partners, condemnation of aggression, support for Ukraine and reaction to this multi-sanitary mechanism are consistent and firm. And that's what's going on. It happens quickly, it happens strongly and the repercussions will certainly feel whatever the known resistance of the different regimes of sanctions here is a package very large, very strong, firm and we believe it will have an effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94512	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94513	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, therefore, we have clearly supported the declaration, but also supported the government's decisions, therefore, and in terms of humanitarian aid, the acceptance of refugees, and also military, military aid or aid in arms, so we have supported the Ukrainian people, and I would like once again to point out that, and I agree with you when you said that we must defend democracy, those values on which the Western world rests. But I want here to actually touch what you said, which is a censorship of Russian media. I don't think democracy defends itself by censorship. Democracy defends itself with truth because the truth will ultimately always win, and the truth is in this case that Russian aggression is not caused by anything. And I'm not inclined to go in that direction, that Western countries are going in the direction of censorship, but in the direction of defense. their values, and defending values is freedom [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The speech. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94514	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94515	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with you when it comes to democratic values and freedom of speech, but it is also necessary to distinguish freedom from the propaganda of biased, paid, incorrect, fabricated, false news and information that has an impact on public opinion. Who aim to bring fear, destabilise, rock our citizens in what everyone needs to see next to their eyes. But nowadays, such intense, large communications, especially through smart phones, are not an irrelevant question. These are the hybrid threats we've been facing for a very long time. It is an imputation to numerous democratic electoral processes in the members of the Union that lasts. In these circumstances, it's on the nth, and that's why those decisions are not against freedom. They're a filter for people to hear the truth, not a lie. It's very important, and that's the message, and that's why we have to build consensus and raise awareness of these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94516	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94517	Respected Prime Minister only shortly after we held an inter-parliamentary group of friendships where we expressed our support for Ukraine there was a terrible attack. The question for you is that we have three acceptable largest centres, one of them is also in the area of the Varazdin County, which makes it possible for the government to allow people who are coming, to really feel like ours, like those who, who, who have the experience of being a refugee, so what right will Croatia allow them to really at least a little forget war horrors, and in that I mean also alluding to 30% of the empty housing units that Croatia has, so what can the government do to make these people live here for that time, decently?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94518	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94519	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd say there's a first stage, then two possible options. The first stage is that this acceptance is stable, solid, sure, that people have a roof over their heads, that they have food, that they have health care, that they have everything they need when they come to Croatia, that they feel better than this escape from the horror of war. That's no. 1 and the system of civil protection and all regional centres, both Osijek and Zagreb and Varazdin, but also others, and I say, the response is extremely large for all those who can provide accommodation. Phase two has two options. 1st to stop the war, to win Ukraine and to get people home. That would be best and that would be the greatest success. 2. is if this blame lasts long is to see how we can ensure in the best way, not only health care, but also education, education, employment, and the integration of Ukrainians who will come into Croatia and on these scenarios... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94520	Thank you. Comrade Krstulović Opera, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94521	Dear President, for the last time in the House, this was the unity of all political forces on the night of January 24, '91. Mr. when President Tudjman went to Belgrade to negotiate to prevent an invasion, a massive Serbian invasion of Croatia. We MPs were then expecting the news and return of President Tudjman, the atmosphere in HS is identical today. Croatia chose the apartment today, it is on the side of the truth, on the side of Ukraine and on the side of the Western world. But Belgrade and Vukic chose the dark side. They didn't side with the truth and it worries all of us. The instability in BiH, political paralysis and instability in Montenegro, all of us must be concerned. It is good that the Croatian Armed Forces are on alert, that the security forces of the Republic of Croatia are on alert and what is needed, Croatia needs to be stronger with its Western partners in the light of this worrying crisis [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in our environment [[Thank you very much.]] I'd like your opinion on that. [[Upadica: Thank you, colleague Krstulović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94522	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94523	Thank you, well-respected representative Krstulović Oprah. You are a witness to history 31 years ago and today and it is good that we have people with such continuity and in this synergy of HS, which gives you a special value optic of what happens literally historical processes. I said Thursday night, February 24th, there will be a day when tectonic changes have taken place. These changes, hopefully, will have no repercussion of the security and destabilising character of our neighborhood. We expect, and that's what I said when it comes to Serbia's policy to be clear, articulated, that there can't be two chairs. This situation is either-or. This isn't a situation I-I. And on the other hand, when the focus is greater, this is an opportunity to hear it, to see it, to put it clearly in this situation, and we expect that whatever happens here, Serbia takes care of its reputation and its stability for its neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94524	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94525	Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation after expressing our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, you have touched on a few more topics that are extremely important to our citizens. One of these topics is LNG terminal, and the other topic is agriculture. If you don't mind, if you know the data, I would ask you to respond, since we know that part of the LNG terminal's capacity has been leased, if perhaps in negotiations and arrangements with suppliers to buy the remaining capacity on LNG, and as far as agriculture is concerned, I'm interested in whether the government in the light of all these new events has prepared some new package of measures for our farmers since we have a completely different situation than we had 10 days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94526	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94527	Thank you very much. As far as LNG terminal capacity is concerned, you know that we talked about it before it was launched, so we have ensured its purpose with capacity rental, which from our companies, which from Hungarian companies, at this point, if you remember 57% of the gas spent in Croatia comes right through LNG on Krk and on the terminal on Krk, which is very important. We will in agreement with LNG Croatia, in agreement with our suppliers, do everything to intensify, as much as possible use of LNG terminals and to ensure that on top of all these ships already ordered this year, you can see whether there can be and how much extra, to ensure sufficient amounts of gas. As regards food, here, Minister Vukkovic made a very clear statement during the morning, Croatia has enough food at this time, enough food supplies and nothing is missing at this time, but this decision to purchase additional supplies, given the inflow of people will be respected and we will have enough food for us And for exiles, refugees from Ukraine. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94528	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94529	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia. I express a lot of compassion with Ukraine and with a people who are suffering at this moment, and it really evokes the memories of everything that we had 30, 31 years ago and unfortunately everything that happened both in Vukovar and in Zadar. What certainly saddens me is that reason has not prevailed, although we expected this to never happen again, and especially not in the area of Europe. You were also special, as head of the European Parliament's delegation in Ukraine and then, and as Prime Minister, you mentioned the possibility of actually having the experience that Croatia had in the process of peaceful reintegration. That's when they criticized you a lot. That's what it is. to prove it right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94531	Thank you very much. I, today with full confidence, think that Croatia's contribution and assistance to Ukraine in our experience in the 1990s and here I am stressing in the part concerning the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube, the successful operation of the UN for the transitional administration in eastern Slavonia, which has made it possible for Croatia, through negotiations then with local rebels on Croatian territory with the help of the UN, with the help of US General Klein, to come to a peaceful solution. It's the best and most successful project, a project with no victims, a project that has made it possible to avoid any, any loss of any human life. And knowing this situation there for years I've been saying it, arguing to my colleagues in Ukraine, I made it clear to the Russian representatives when I was in contact with them, to all my partners, and I think that's what we could give because there's no big difference between what's the point of the agreement in Mine and what's going on in the Croatian Danube. They are very similar, and the political will to realize it was important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unfortunately, there's been this escalation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94532	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94533	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, although we from the Homeland Movement have regularly asked for this and we are still looking for Croatia until now, it has not filed charges over the enormous human casualties and material destruction committed during the Homeland War. Let's go to the speculative category. Assuming that the rulings of international courts would be on the side of the Republic of Croatia, which should not be doubted and that the consequences of these judgments would have a significant impact on the views of the current war conflict in Ukraine, primarily on the views of Vukic and Dodik. Do I ask you from the speculative category that you have not filed charges against Serbia for war damage both to Croatia and the Croatian people? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94535	Dear former Jordanian schoolmate Dretar, I believe you followed him here a few days ago, our former foreign minister, Zvonimir Šeparovic, died, he was the minister of justice, if you remember. Croatia filed lawsuits, filed them before the international court, these proceedings lasted, had all the elements in them. These courts have made certain decisions, Croatia has never forgotten or exhausted all the possibilities of the issues that you are talking about and doing so knowingly in the protection of Croatian national interests, and above all the enormous war damages that we have experienced and which objectively reverse us that we have had to be there for years, in this phase of hunting steps with other Central and Eastern European countries that have neither had aggression nor war nor such war damage. So I suggest you remember a little bit of all the processes that generations of people who were responsible before us, and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94536	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94537	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the response to economic and other sanctions has therefore become global because countries such as Australia, Singapore, South Korea and others are joining the bloc against aggression. It's on the one hand that economic segment. On the other hand, Russia's aggression against Ukraine has forced many countries and organisations to make historic up until yesterday almost unimaginable geopolitical decisions. The attempt to fragment the West, the NATO Alliance failed but brought additional, additional unity. Their current foreign policy, the long-standing principles of neutrality, is changing. Finland and Sweden have solidly bowed to the West and to Moscow, and perhaps this aggression will push them into NATO. Is it except that in the latest poll, the Finns have even 53% opted to join NATO now? Whether this is being discussed at EU level, so please answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94538	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94539	Thank you very much. I think the unity of the Western EU and NATO is something that has been demonstrated completely. I don't see here that there are any more serious deviations. Which will and will decide on its future and membership to the North Atlantic Alliance eventually be decided by the governments and citizens of Finland and Sweden. As Croatia has made its decisions, its choices, stand firm behind them, it believes that part of the value and universal but also of the Western civilization circle is primarily peaceful and respect for rights, freedom, respect for other countries and their territorial integrity, so we expect others to respect it. And that when someone breaks it, we make it clear and we make a firm argument. I follow these statements that are in political space and in media space, which come from these two countries, but I have no information at this time whether, when and how they will make the real decisions, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94540	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94541	Thank you, Mr. President. In the usual situation, some kind of poison arrow would have flown from my side towards you and yours towards me. Comedash Doncic would certainly be a mess, but this isn't the usual situation. The situation is that countries are making decisions that we couldn't even imagine yesterday. That's exactly what my colleague Cappelly was saying. One of such possible decisions that I think has a very high impact on both the Republic of Croatia and the real Croatian national interest could also be the accelerated enlargement of the EU to the Western Balkan countries, those who have expressed their readiness to join the EU and have proven their readiness to join the EU. Consensus, of course, is being achieved over certain things. What we agree and support is consensus. Do you think it is possible to reach a consensus in Croatia and show it as our national interest in the EU that the countries of the Western Balkans, BiH, Montenegro Albania and Macedonia are rapidly joining the EU. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94542	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94543	Thank you very much. Here's no arrows to both of us. As for political support and the political declaration that we have said and which we have, and according to the aspirations in Ukraine, but which we have according to the aspirations of our neighbouring countries, they are there. We have a lot of experience, if we know something, in detail and politically and legally and procedurally, as it all goes together, we know how the EU accession processes go, the country submits a request, this request is received by the country that holds the presidency, in this case it is France, in our time it was Greece, a debate is held at Council level, a decision is taken whether the Commission is asked for an opinion, the Commission is prepared, the Commission is informed of the country in question, the matter is returned to the Council, Parliament is asked to start negotiations with someone. Only one country entered the EU overnight, it was East Germany. This atmosphere reminds us of extraordinary circumstances, at this point I cannot say with certainty how much such processes would The shortcuts lasted, but we will also support all of our neighbours and Ukraine, that all of their steps towards Europe are speeding up. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94544	I thank the Prime Minister. We've come to an end with preliminary exposure and replicas, so now we're going to discuss it. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the esteemed colleague of the Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94545	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. What we are unique about, and it should be absolutely repeated so that no one would try to question it, is a condemnation of war, but also of aggressor because we know very well that there is no shared responsibility here. We have a situation where one country, Russia, led by a dictator attacked another country, Ukraine. And there's no doubt about it or there can be any doubt about it. And that is why we must all work together and support those measures concerning humanitarian aid, those of other forms, and those of military assistance and those of measures concerning the reception and assistance of refugees who have already begun to come to the Republic of Croatia and whom Croatia must provide a safe haven from war. In the same way our fellow citizens and fellow citizens were given that refuge 30 years ago. We unfortunately have experience with the war, and that is why we know how important it is to take all the measures that are at our disposal to help people who come to Croatia whether they come here for a day, two, a week or a lot longer. And if this war lasts, by all accounts, there won't be a situation that will be resolved overnight and that's why we as a society, we as a state have an obligation to engage all the capacities we have to help these people. However, I will take this opportunity to make a single appeal. It concerns not only Croatia, it also refers to many other countries. It's not the Russians and the Russians who are to blame for this war. It's Vladimir Putin's fault and the click that supports him, and that's why we need to support those brave people who protest for days in Moscow, St. Petersburg and elsewhere. More than 6,000 people have been arrested so far. People risk jail time, long term sentences, torture for getting up against the war. And as we've said many times, the collective guilt of the people is gone. The blame for this war lies on the dictator and the dictator's victims are not only the Ukrainians who die, but also his people, the people he deceived, the people he deceived, the same as we saw in our premises 30 years ago. Unfortunately, history repeats itself, and we need to learn from the mistakes of that history, we need to be unique, we need to provide help, but we also need to analyze the situation in which we live. The EU, if it wants to deal with crises in the future, must be more ready for it than it is today, and we are seriously discussing whether we want to face a Europe that is willing to deal with these crises, which can or will allow this, as has been too often the case so far, to have 27 votes that speak for themselves and look at themselves, and then because they are unable to see a wider picture, to do anything. Now is the time to think deeply about it, and as soon as we move forward with Europe's reforms, it will be better and more effective. And in this context it is extremely important to talk about the European perspective, but not only of Ukraine but also of other countries. But it must not be just words, it must be concrete works. I'll only mention one country from our environment, it's Macedonia. Macedonia has made huge concessions. Macedonia has been a victim of foreign involvement in its internal affairs precisely from Russia's direction, these are facts. Macedonia has done a lot, and its perspective has stopped. The message sent to Macedonia is bad. And she's threatening to go the wrong way. That's why we have to open the door wide for those who are ready and who have shown which direction they want to go. But we also need to send a clear message, and again, so that we don't talk about someone unidentified, I'm talking about Serbia, that this is the moment where we have to make a decision and define ourselves, which is your way. And for Croatia, unfortunately, it is not only foreign policy but also our security. And that's why when we talk about the way Serbia behaves we don't say it because of some envy, we say it because it's important for us, for Serbia and for Europe. And these are the things we need to think about, and these are the things we need to deal with. But we also need to deal much more specifically with the consequences of this crisis for Croatia. We are already in a situation that stems from the pandemic, which stems from the earthquake, which results from inflation pressures that are not only a Croatian problem. Eurostat today published data on how much inflation is in the EU Member States and that it is the strongest in the energy but also in the food sector. They collect energy, heating, transport or collect food. That's why the package we talked about 10 days ago is just not enough anymore. What we need to talk about must be much more concrete than the VAT reduction itself to food. That respected colleagues and colleagues at this time to ensure the stability of our country and the standard of our citizens is not enough. M and we need to ensure production, ensure quantities and ensure availability. And that's why what the proposal was 10 days ago, I'm going to say it one more time, it's not enough today. We must work together to ensure that we give citizens more. And I'm going to point out once more VAT, but even more than that, we need to secure production, we need to ensure our farmers the ability to produce food without them falling apart. And in the situation of war, they don't depend solely on the market. The market often doesn't work, and in the event of a war, it doesn't. Don't forget that. There are times when every country if it wants to be serious has to intervene. This is one of those. I also mentioned the end, but we cannot go beyond that, the other disasters Croatia faced. First of all, the earthquake. The Petrinians protested on Monday. They were protesting with one message, and that message is that we are aware of the victims suffered by people in Ukraine, but don't forget us for that. We must not forget our citizens in Zagreb, in Banija who have been in Zagreb for two years now, for over a year in Banja face the consequences of the earthquake. They're facing the fact that the reconstruction doesn't work the way it should. I am aware that we must talk about the consequences of the war, but that is why we must not forget the other problems our citizens face on a daily basis. And those who died in an earthquake in affected areas demand what I fear at this point, and not only because of the fact that there is no real minister, that support, that support that the state should be giving them is not getting. We need to get that right from now on. We need to make sure things start to work again. And for the very end, support for the Ukrainians and Ukrainians, support for their restoration of their homeland and so that the situation in Croatia would never happen clearly tell Russia is an aggressor Ukraine is the victim, and Putin is the dictator who started the war. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94546	Thank you. Next will be the Club of Representatives of the Most, and time will be shared by the respected representative Nino Rasdic and the respected representative Selak Rasdic. First of all, Honored Representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94547	I'm expected to see a strategic retreat from the Prime Minister. I will repeat once again, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people have already come to light at the end of last week immediately through a declaration that we almost unanimously supported, we gave support to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. And so it will continue to be and there should be no further waste of time and repeat what we have heard 10 times and what we voted for in that declaration. But what we need to focus on right now is what we have learned from all this and what should be done both at Croatia and at EU level in order to pass as safely as possible next months and next year, a large part of strategic breakdowns and dangers. For weeks before the open Russian attack on Ukraine, the EU again led a strange policy, i.e. There was not a single coordinated foreign policy but rather a little meeting on his own with Scholz Putin, a little talk by Macron, little our Minister Grlic Radman called Putin for a meeting, etc., etc. Even on the first day of the attack in the evening, Macron speaks to Putin, so it is seen again that as soon as the crisis, the problem, there is no single policy. It was seen at the moment of the migrant crisis when he suddenly disappeared, evaporated by Schengen, each state raises national borders which army, who wire. The same was seen at the beginning of the Covida-19 pandemic when suddenly every country runs its own health and safety policy. This is a fact in the EU today, and we need to consider it. But what is even more disturbing is the fact of corruption at the very top of the EU and of certain European countries. In 2014, Russia detected Crimea and was introduced as some pseudosences. What happens after 2014 and what did these sanctions look like? So here's what it looked like in 2016, the EU Commission and Germany de facto give total monopoly to Gazprom over the OPAL pipeline. Why? Ginter Etinger, who was from CDU, who was the European Energy Commissioner, in a private aircraft in May 2016, on the private aircraft of Klaus Mangold, the main Russian energy lobbyist in Germany and the note of the honourary Russian consul in Germany, Ginter Etinger is on his private plane from Brussels, Budapest. What Schröder does, a former German office doesn't need to waste words. So we are dealing with a deeply corrupt, except for an incompetent EU-level structure and also at Croatia's level. This morning I heard a scandalous statement from the Prime Minister to the media when they asked him about removing the immunity of Minister Aladrovic, which should be a routine and what's going on for the first time, he says, we'll see, I've got more important things to do right now. What's the most important job? Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister said he wouldn't replace any minister, that we could plant on eyelashes. Ten days ago, two days later, a construction minister was arrested and still unable to name him. In a country where Zagreb was torn down, almost two years after the earthquake, in which Banovina looks what it looks like. There's no Minister of Reconstruction. Deputy Prime Minister Aladrovic is now wanted for the removal of immunity, the former energy minister, now the economy, the first co-worker, accuses and shows e-mails that radio crime was on his orders. I will repeat, in such a dangerous geopolitical situation, I will have the top of the government that is deeply engulfed in crime and corruption is a security risk for Croatia. Such people are blackmailing and controlling, especially from secret services, who knows whose, including the Russians. That's why this government has to leave. The Russian attack on Ukraine is not an argument against the fall of this government but an argument for the fall of this government. Because we don't need blackmailing people in power right now. It doesn't have to be tomorrow's election. We can set up and support the government of experts, some technical government that's about to ship, but I'll repeat, the last thing we need is the blackmailing people in power, and these certainly are. Then, we see, there's another mention of some kind of new cross-station, some kind of inside the government of an inter-resor, some kind of body. We see that Croatia is constantly in permanent state of emergency, first of all 2 years of the crown, most of it without any need or explanation, is now using this situation. Why? To stop the processes and detect and process their crime. The issue of national security, I repeat, do not have such a political peak in wartime. HS and the people, I'll do it again, they said it. And here we're all tough, but what's important now is not to let war in Ukraine be used as a fig leaf to cover up someone's crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94548	It will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94549	Croatia is an accident that we have such a corrupt government and that at a moment of unremembered threat to European soil, rather than ultimately commit ourselves to solidarity with the Ukrainians and concerns for our own safety, we are burdened with the daily corrupt affairs of this government and we have to deal with the charges under which its ministers are located. In opposition there are no small mice and this is important to highlight and we will not be given moral and emotional blackmail as Prime Minister Plenkovic is now trying to politically paralysed on the tragedy of the Ukrainian people in order to prevent a discussion about the corrupt affairs of this government, which is indeed an unremembered moral bottom in the recent Croatian politics. In that sense, we will continue to fight to highlight all the problems that are key to this society and to bring about the shift of ministers and these authorities precisely because of the uncertainty that we are surrounded by because we only now see how dangerous it is to have unstable authority at the helm. When we talk about how this war threat can be reflected in Croatia, it would be important to know what condition our shelters are and whether we have the necessary equipment at all, not only to defend the country but also to protect the civilian population if there is a war or nuclear weapons being used tomorrow. According to what we have been able to see in some media, shelters seem to be not being maintained properly, and the question is whether they had enough of them in the first place since they were long ago being built new. However, the key long-term strategic issue of the Republic of Croatia is the state of its military science. If we don't have strategic leaders, and we need them now, they are now the key, who will know how to use military equipment and motivate the military, all our techniques are becoming useless. Why don't we keep the trained military personnel, and why do we retire in full-time and intellectual strength? Do we know what Ban Josip Jelačić War School is and do we work on its improvement and visibility? If we use enough of the fact that we have the highest military education, so with our neighbouring countries, the issue of attending and finishing this war school is prestige. In Croatia we could hear many statements of short-sighted, unserious so-called Progressive politicians, who would probably defend us with pets and who had their amendments to the budget based precisely on a reduction in military funds. Today, there is a valid question of what it would be like to be heard, and how many such people are in a position to manage the earth? To be clear, we're all pacifists, but we're realists, the military is not empowering because someone has a fetish on weapons and a desire for war, but because of a reasonable approach to politics and pragmatic consciousness that we live in unstable times in which it is necessary to present the muscles in order not to be attacked, or really not to enter into conflict. What's the role and responsibility of HS in military policies is the question that we need to answer here? What about our key strategic document, the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? Apparently, there's a new one going now. Have we asked the right questions and followed the spending? And what I will finally refer to in particular is a principled social issue relating to the current information war in society of spectacles whose component we are. Media sensationalism in which every news from Ukraine is fatal because such goods are better sold, and then starlet public response to it, imitations of Ukrainian hairstyles and similarly justify the question of whether today because of the information available we have become more solid and sensitive to the tragedy of the Ukrainian people, or whether it is just a trend fashion supplement suitable for any post-apocalyptic fashion editories in which we hope to find our five minutes of fame. But more than the issue of lack of real empathy and the higher only promotion of what we really need is the way this crisis is transferred, the potential censorship, and the consequences that both the crisis and its communication will have for the mental health of Croatian citizens, and most of the children are already rooted in agony. The consequences of war events in a globalised networked world do not necessarily have to be direct in terms of wind damage. How many people can't sleep today? How much will the number of mental illnesses, opiate use, and delinquent behavior and criminal activities result in? Is our health system ready for that? In that sense, responsibility for serious, rational, humanitarian or anti-sensationalist approach to the current conflicts is on all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94550	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of HSLS and Reformists, and time will be shared by the respected representative Martincevic and the respected representative of Hrebak. First of all, the respected representative Martincevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94551	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, only six days after the beginning of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, we can say that Putin and Russia's imperial policy are essentially and long-term defeated. The basis for Putin's decision to attack Ukraine was the belief that according to a lesson from the Crimean Anexia and Russian presence in the Dombasa regions, it is possible without strong resistance within four to five days to break Ukraine completely and to bring the EU and NATO to a final act. This belief Putin was not primarily based on the underestimation of Ukrainian unquestionably less military power but primarily on the assessment that Ukrainian national identity is not fully informed and that a number of Ukrainians see themselves as the least said to the Russians by a very close nation with a historical common state. This would, of course, mean the absence of any real resistance to aggression during the attack itself and, more importantly, the lack of resistance to the establishment of a puppet pro-Russian regime with characteristics of Belarusian. Another key assumption for the attack was the security that NATO's military presence on Ukraine would be missing. The third was the certainty that Germany, with France, was the most influential, and the economically strongest country, for historical, economic reasons, and primarily energy reasons, would certainly not be ready for military aid to Ukraine because this would represent a fundamental change in its policy over the past three quarters of the century. Putin assumed that Germany would probably not easily accept even the most severe sanctions because it would be the most difficult for them. The fourth reference to this was the belief that, without Germany or the EU, they would not be able to make decisions on a significantly higher level of sanctions than in 2014, let alone make decisions on the financing of weapons or the sending of weapons to Ukraine. In the past six days, however, every Ukrainian military and civilian sacrifice, with every refugee family within and outside Ukraine and Putin and the world, and especially the EU and NATO alliance, has shown that the Ukrainians are fully aware of their identity and are willing to risk everything to defend their statehood. Nor should it be doubtful that the heroic resistance and victims of the Ukrainian people in the defense of the homeland today will permanently mark their consciousness of themselves tomorrow as well as their relationship with Russia. It is precisely the resistance and the victims that prompted, and it has in some way forced both NATO and the EU as a whole on an unprecedented engagement so far. From the level of German initial aid of 5,000 protective helmets, which the Polish prime minister in Berlin justifiably called a joke, which is the easiest he could say, to date, 1,000 pieces of anti-tank weapons of 500 rockets of land-air now sent by Germany. We are now witnessing serious military aid and almost all European countries except for the fully exposed partner of Orban, who has banned even the transport of military aid via Hungary. In this context, it is particularly important and the courage and determination of Sweden and the emphasis of Finland, which are not members of the NATO Alliance, that they have responded to the direct threats sent to them by sending, announcing military assistance to Ukraine. For this reason, we Reformists strongly support the sending of Croatian military aid. On the human tragedy of refugees, on the first day of the crisis, we first expressed a key message to receive the citizens of Ukraine not only as refugees but as our fellow citizens in trouble with all the rights that Croatian citizens also have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94552	The respected representative, Hrebak, will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94553	Honored and respected Croatian Vice-President, respected and respected ministers with state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Europe is at war again. 30 years after the war in Croatia, BiH is in Kosovo more than half a century after Soviet troops marched tanks in Prague and Budapest. The sirens appeared at the heart of another European capital, Kiev. Children, women, men die again because Vladimir Putin decided that everything else is less important is that he enters the history books as the greatest son of the Russian people of modern Russian history. This is a moment of truth for Europe, it's not just about Ukraine, it's about the conflict of two worlds, two opposite common values. This is a conflict between the rule of law and the rule of law, this is a conflict between democracy and autocracy, this is a conflict between the rule-based order and the world of naked aggression. Our reaction to aggression against Ukraine today will determine the future of the entire international system, the fate of Ukraine, but also the fate of Europe and the entire liberal democratic world. Even though this world that is so brutally perfect today must show the power that lies in our democracies, we must show the power of people and peoples who lead their independent ways freely and democratically. The EU has adopted three waves of heavy sanctions against the Russian financial system, its high-tech industries and the corrupt elite. This is the largest sanction package in the history of the Union that will affect its members, but on the other hand we must be united and the EU has finally shown unity and political credibility. These sanctions will have a hard impact on the Russian economy and the Kremlin because we have to stop funding this very war that the Kremlin so simply advocates by propaganda. The Croats, unfortunately, know very well about the horrors of the war because the last ones in Europe fought a defensive war like Ukraine today, so we are giving a strong message and calling on all those who were forced to leave us friendly Ukraine to receive them with an open heart because of the aggression of Russia. Ukraine recognised Croatia's independence among the first and helped with weapons and equipment while we were under the embargo. Croatia must not forget what Ukraine did for us more than 30 years ago, our Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja have been home to the Ukrainians for centuries, and Croatia should be a new temporary or God forbid if necessary, we are prepared to be their permanent homeland. We don't have a lot of weapons to help them in this unfair war, but we have a great desire to accept them not only as refugees but as truly our fellow citizens, so that if this were to get really worse we couldn't go back to our homes. In fact, we do not know what will continue to happen with this whole situation, but if the worst happens, if freedom and democracy replaces a totalitarian system, unfortunately we can count that one large part of them will not be able to return to their homes because they certainly did not choose freedom in the other plan of totalitarianism and autocracy that obviously has intentions to rule Ukraine. We hope that doesn't happen. For the next few days, we can expect precisely because of all this mass arrival of refugees in Central Europe and for that we must be prepared. And my city, Belovar City is ready for more than 100 beds at this moment prepared precisely at several locations in the area of my city that can already host citizens of Ukraine tomorrow who unfortunately had to leave their homes and already today the first families have arrived in my city and we will receive them truly as their fellow citizens. We are prepared to provide whatever else it takes as long as it takes, if necessary, we will activate additional resources. And that's why I'm asking all the other colleagues to do the same. Bjelovar is an open city in which 21 of the 22 national minorities in Croatia live, including the Ukrainians, and we are proud of it. That's why, as we have responded, I say once again, I call on all other colleagues to react, there won't be much time we can expect a great wave of refugees and so we all must now at this very moment and all the mayors, the mayors, the mayors show one great community, one great heart. The hard days are ahead of all of us and we have to be solid and openhearted to these people because we must not forget how they treated us 30 years ago. We stand by Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94554	So I'm waiting for my colleagues to stop talking so we can keep working. Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Mrak Taritaš, Oreshković will speak and share the time with the respected representative Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94555	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Less than a week ago, we woke up in a world quite different from the one we slept in before. We ignored the dangerous signs of what had happened that they had seen for years. I'm not talking about Croatia at all. He fell asleep in a civilized world and allowed a despot to grow in his backyard that was ready for anything, and even threatened to turn everything into nothing in a few seconds. The topics that were still around us last week were the crown, the earthquake, the restoration, the corruption, the news and images of the horrors that we apparently naively thought were behind us. What he now sees is how far-sighted were the greats of European history that were after II. The world's war has hit the foundations of the EU how important the Transatlantic Alliance is, how important it is that liberal democracy spread to the world and how important it is that Croatia is part of all of this. The measures so far taken by the EU, the UK, the United States and our other allies support as we support and participate the Republic of Croatia in all forms of assistance to Ukraine. We also support and support all forms of political and diplomatic efforts that could lead to ceasefire and cease war. I will also mention that I am proud that the European Liberals of the ALDE party joined the party of Ukrainian President Zelenski yesterday. The messages we send must be messages of encouragement and support in all ways as possible. I would also like to join in the expressions of respect for our ambassador to Ukraine, Mrs. Anica Djamic. In front of all of us now are serious tasks, Ukraine needs help, but it will only be a start. This situation has shown us its weaknesses. The unity within the EU we have witnessed in recent days has not been seen for a long time, and that was the problem. That's why some important processes have stopped. The enlargement of the Union in our region is one of them, extremely important for Croatia. The creation of a solid and unique foreign, security and defence policy is another one of the things in which we, as Europeans, have failed. Today we are faced with different fears and doubts, some of their causes we have unwarrantedly forgotten as is the case. The problem of nuclear weapons, some in the routine of everyday life, have taken too seriously such as instability and weakness of institutions in our immediate neighborhood. Prime Minister, I have often told here that we must take an even stronger and more proactive role in the processes of European integration in our region, telephone talks with Moscow and call for an agreement with Putin, it is an inevitable fact. In this regard, I hope that our political and diplomatic efforts will be stepped up in these very processes. Our hearts and souls are with the brave Ukrainian people, with people who experience horrors that I would not wish for even the worst enemy. I repeat, we are pleased that the Republic of Croatia has joined all the measures that the civilization world has taken to try to stop an insane invasion in this dark hour. The images from Ukraine woke us from a dangerous dream that what we have, we have permanent and that's why we don't have to fight. Freedom needs to be fought every day, and that's the only way we're gonna keep it. Today, people in Ukraine are fighting for it under bullets and missiles, but that fight is ahead of the rest of us. We must lead it in such a way as to strengthen our democracy, strengthen our institutions, strengthen citizens' awareness of their role in everything, together with our allies and friends, we must build the next step of the EU, a Union that is more unique than it has ever been before, a Union that is deeper, more integrated than it has ever been before, a Union that has a single and strong foreign, security and defence policy. We must strengthen and build our friendship and partnership with all countries of the world who share our values of peace and respect, human freedom and dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94556	The respected representative Oreskovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94557	Your Honor. The situation in Ukraine and the danger from which the whole world now suffers is not and must not be suppressed and made irrelevant to all our internal problems. However, I think this is quite a reason to realize how important internal mechanisms of restraint and control are for democracy and peace, the internal system of control, because the situation in which anyone's word and importance is always bad and dangerous for everyone. In the same way that the whole world is now wondering if there is anyone in the Kremlin who can stop Putin and we have to wonder if Croatia today is what we dreamed of for centuries, if HDZ's rule is unquestionable regardless of the amount of corruption that Plenkovic's government can describe. In anticipation of conflict-settling, early snap elections are not a happy solution, but the same is the unsustainable situation in which several ministers are being prosecuted for various corrupt affairs. This is no longer about individuals but about the system that Andrej Plenkovic is conducting. Because of the global crisis, I do not call on the government's impeachment, I call on Andrej Plenkovic to replace ministers who have lost confidence in the public eyes because in the competent functional democracies it would simply be necessary, the more Croatia has now settled itself with the values that have been united by advanced, modern Western democracies and Western Europe's Member States, Croatia cannot remain contradictory within itself and send a message that the will of our domestic mini autocrats, followed by its parliamentary oligarchal majority without discussion, is crucial and that whatever government does through its corrupt ministers, because no one can do anything against such authorities. It's not a credible message against Putin and his oligarchs. I also call on Croatian citizens to remember in the next parliamentary elections whenever they are not forgetting that corrupt Croatia is the only political legacy behind Andrej Plenkovic and that it does not ever deserve to be the prime minister for the assembly of any future Croatian government because each of his governments will be the same one that he paints 15 already because of the corruption of the changed ministers. And in view of the situation in Ukraine itself, I will note that these unfortunate events result, or are the result of an abandoned problem from which the EU has fled. Only the Baltic states have systematically warned about what this is about, but apparently the problem in the international community has not been sufficiently apostrophe. In this part of the world, cold war politics has not stopped and is now in some post-modern phase. In search of solutions, I believe that politicians should not rely solely on what they themselves have to say, we should begin to respect the profession, historians especially those who deal with Russian and Slavic issues, and obviously in some geostrategic moves so far there have been too many, too many mistakes. We all think the same thing more or less about Putin itself. Apparently, his concept of great state, his political discourse, as well as his war-torn rhetoric. In this sense, however, it is not too different from some thesis, from some rhetoric that we can hear too often within the Croatian Parliament itself. So I would like to point out that dialogue has no alternative. The dialogue must not be abandoned. Therefore, the gesture of disdain at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, which, when delegates had mass boycotted the moment Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov addressed them, was not a gesture that was an example of the seriousness of the situation. Perhaps it was still necessary to take advantage of the opportunity and try constructively to explain that this could be the end of all of us if the dialogue fails. Hitler was being negotiated, so at least he'll have to try to negotiate with Putin. No conversation should be missed because someone in that room at the Disarmament Conference may have said something that might help right now. It's important to amortize the situation. We all think what we're thinking, but the key is to find a solution to stop the war before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94558	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94559	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I have listened carefully today to most of you who have spoken and, in particular, Prime Minister Plenkovic, and somehow I have the impression that they are more or less speaking the same, as if everyone is repeating what is being read in the newspaper, which can be traced through the media, and all these are more or less agency news. Politics is hardly ever led on stage, especially not by big politics, and this in Ukraine is about big politics, but behind the scenes. That's where certain things are arranged. I would like us to try first of all, try to think that way by looking at it primarily our own and our own Croatian interest. Our Croatian interest at this point with a global of course not to reach the world war don't give God, to protect ourselves. I'm reading what Dodik says today, yesterday he was at a meeting with the Russian ambassadors if I'm not mistaken. We see what he's doing and he's saying "Wolf." And on the other hand, we see one hysteria, a hysteria about a war that is unfortunately all of us have experience with wars in the last 30 years, at least strange. Very strange. I'm trying to think about why this war is so strange, which is why the whispers make cities of 100,000 inhabitants fall without a fight, without resistance. I'm trying to look for the pictures we saw from Syria up until a few years ago, so that picture from Ukraine, I can't find them except alleged Ukrainian or alleged Russian sources. And it all seems very, very strange to me. But if we weren't all going in they were talking, we'd all still be talking about Ukraine, so I wouldn't be wasting too much time on that. I would concentrate on Croatian interests. I don't think it would be foolish at this point to be the leaders of the countries so-called. The regions of the Western Balkans or whatever you want to sit down as soon as possible and see if there can be a conversation about calming the tensions that exist all the time, especially in BiH and also in Montenegro, but also in Serbia, if there can be talks, if we can agree with these areas that God does not give some expansion of the conflict to ours, there will be no conflict to our space. Lukashenko was yesterday when he showed some kind of map by accident or on purpose, but there is no chance that a mistake was stolen in politics, I say a mistake under quotes where in the plan of Russian operations in Ukraine there is an arrow from the south of Odessa, Moldova. So, a plan has already been developed to enter Moldova. I wouldn't want him back in the assembly now, I support the Moldovan people, etc., so let's let Ukraine go now. Moldova is a state that isn't functional. It's divided into two states. All those who follow football will know what I'm talking about, so in two countries one of which is to say normal, internationally recognised, and the other is de facto independent with its authority and no one asks that because it's far enough under quotes again from us, and it's not. So, do the Russians plan to enter them obviously friendly territory and thus enter another sovereign and internationally recognised state, but which does not work within the limits of how we view it on maps. Similar to that in BiH. The sovereign state, etc., etc. If I wanted to pull parallels, if I wanted to be bad, I mean bad, real, try to be realistic, or if everyone tried to be realistic let's try to wonder what would be and how our reaction, the Croatian Parliament, would happen if God didn't give the scenario, I don't want any war, but that the scenario of Serbia's attack on Montenegro would happen. What's going on? So Milo Djukanovic says this aggression against an internationally recognised state, calls on NATO to help, whether we are doing the same, whether they are sending, whether our volunteers from Zagreb are going to Cetinje or Podgorica to defend themselves, and on the other hand, the whole of northern Montenegro is still nationalised today. Not only do you have north in Herceg New 90% of Serbs. Then who are we going to take as refugees? We want Montenegrins of course, but I want to say it, it is not the same situation or I can drag parallels with Croatia. We're in '91. were united exactly the same from Umag to Ilock, from Chakovec to Prevlaka, united as the people. In Montenegro, this is not the case today, you see for yourself, the destabilising of the pro-Serbian etc. etc. The same thing is in Ukraine you know, there are Ukrainians out there who are pro-Russian-oriented. It's not a simple situation. But I repeat, I wouldn't want to just talk about Ukraine, this is a potential conflict that can be spilled into our territory. A war in Ukraine against wars of Serbian, Serbian aggression between '91. and '99. is so far nothing that's been going on here. And if that story ever happens again, God forbid it ever happens again, we'll get hurt again, us again. So, I should think that in some way we should establish a dialogue, try to talk to all the relevant factors at the premises of the former Yugoslavia as soon as possible, so that there is no chance of throwing any virus under the allegations of a new conflict that would indeed be cataclysm for Croatia, and I think that after that, Croatia as we know it, as we love it, would not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94560	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Stephen Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94561	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. I will also join others who have clearly condemned Russia's aggression in Ukraine. I think the situation is such that we must be unique in expressing support to the Ukrainian people and I am glad that the Parliament managed very quickly to bring almost unanimous this declaration on Friday. That's a good sign. In the meantime, I'm going to say that Ukraine is not an artificial state unlike what Putin is saying. So it's about an old people who have their own identity, their own history, the right to determine their own future, and I think we're all complicated here, that it's undeniable. But the situation, at least, seems to me many who fell asleep after the end of the Cold War must face a new reality. For many years, we have been listening to the thesis of the end of history, the American sociologist Fukuyama, who claimed that the end of the Cold War was actually the introduction into a new period without great conflict at least ideological ones. And now with our own eyes, we're terrified every day of what we see happening not so far away in Ukraine. So it's not the end of history. We must continue to be aware that wars are possible, so very real. The Ukrainians have shown and show the world that they are very ready to resist. I think few people expected this to be a development, but the question arises whether the announced assistance, or whether the military aid, will arrive in time. I will say on behalf of the Homeland Movement that we welcome government decisions regarding every form of assistance to Ukraine in this situation. And from this place I would like to welcome our Ambassador Anica Djamic a little more than a month ago I was in Kiev personally, we were together and I wish her all the best in this difficult situation, in difficult circumstances to carry out consciously as it has been until now and bravely all of her tasks. We welcome the same announced sanctions, however, the question is how they will affect us. I think about Putin's military campaign that won't distract him, and we need to be aware that it takes time for the sanctions to work. However, they should be introduced and well introduced in the strictest form. However, I will also take the opportunity to remind some of the strategic mistakes made by the large Western countries towards Ukraine. Maybe the biggest and most here's why they pay the highest price and the one from 1994. A Budapest memorandum where former Clinton presidents and British Prime Minister Mayor persuaded Ukraine to give up nuclear weapons. I think we now see that this has led the country to a much weaker situation, and the bitter Ukrainian people are now experiencing it. What are the implications for us? We see in the neighbourhood the lack of a clear conviction in Serbia, it should certainly raise concerns and all those who have criticised the decision to acquire military aircraft should reconsider their views. This is also true for the LNG strategic project. It's been a lot of resistance for years not to realize it, and now you can see how important it is to secure different routes of gas supply, so we certainly see the situation realistically, we're not going to make it any better. However, the same people who would like to lead our country tomorrow in key matters, unfortunately, were wrong. So the Homeland Movement continues to support investment in Croatian defence forces, in defence resources. I think it's quite justified and time will show that we were right. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, we see that Dodik in Republika Srpska is silent, trying to take some neutral position, it is a clear sign that he is not, that he is not a reliable partner, he has never been. I will remind you that, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia has also been recognised by the Western world, and that is what they created by crimes, crimes. So we must realistically see that these decisions have far - reaching consequences. Unfortunately, the people who have been driven out of that space have never returned and we have to make sure that God does not give way to destabilising the neighbouring state. As for what we're hearing these days, I'd refer to these issues from Moscow used to justify a military invasion. So, an explanation is offered to the world that Russia is fighting Fascism, trying to overthrow the Nazis from power in Kiev and so on. It resembles a large Serbian rhetoric from the 1990s, Slobodan Milosevic, who claimed to fight Ustasha authorities to protect the Serbian people and the like. Unfortunately, it still exists on the home plan of the so-called. Antifascists in Croatia often use rhetoric to defend the character and work of a communist dictator. Still in some parties want to return a significant square to Zagreb by its name. It shows that unfortunately some minds are still trapped. They're still trapped, and they're hard to get rid of these ideological shackles, and that can be very dangerous. It's very dangerous. So we will continue to raise our voice against cynical attempts to make something that cannot be defended trying to justify and it is happening today with us. From a list of different rhetorical tools, some use similar arguments and I think they'll be exposed to the end. So there is no room for nostalgia or for the apologetics of communist, communist dictators anywhere, let alone in Croatia. In the end, I would say that in this situation we must bear in mind that we do not know what is waiting for us and that it is very important that we have a stable government in Croatia. It's not a harmless question. We see that much does not point to that conclusion. I will repeat once again that it is a great responsibility for Prime Minister Plenkovic to take decisive moves related to the functioning of this government that is really fighting for political survival. Croatia cannot afford to have a government in the shadow of corruption affairs and we do not know what will come up in the paper the next day. So, that needs to be cleared up as soon as possible, we're not gonna keep our mouth shut about it. I think Croatian citizens deserve actually more responsible behavior than leading politicians in Banovina, but in all of Croatia, and we will not give up on that. We have been looking too long at old habits, old practices of spending taxpayers' money irresponsiblely. And it has to stop. Many have criticized the Homeland Movement when we warned of non-principle coalitions and so on, however, unfortunately the fact shows that we were right. In the end, I want to express my solidarity to the Ukrainian people, I want them to endure in these almost impossible circumstances, to continue to be, to be an inspiration to the entire free world, and we will certainly support them. God save the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94562	Now, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, a respected representative, first respected representative Lerotic, then respected representative Nemet. First of all, the respected representative Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94563	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the IDS Club, of course we express full solidarity with the people of Ukraine and for the last 7 days we are all in our minds with Ukraine and Ukraine. And Russia's attack on Ukraine is unfortunately the defeat of civilization and the defeat of democracy. Of course, the closest we are to being threatened by Russian aggression, and the only thing we can hope for right now is that the negotiations that began to take place the day before yesterday are as soon as possible by success. We can only hope that the negotiations will achieve at least what is now the primary, and that is the ceasefire. Although we understand how things stand and that there is a great skepticism that these negotiations will solve anything. What these negotiations are telling us is that Russia has failed in what it primarily intended. The Russians were convinced that they would achieve their goals quickly, and this did not happen because the Ukrainian army and the people showed incredible resistance. Also, we may also have some hope that his country will turn its back on the Russian dictator because as we see the people, but some Russian billionaires and politicians have started calling for peace. The Russians are de facto impossible to travel, are forbidden to buy foreign exchanges, have been expelled from almost all sports and cultural events. So, Russia's business people are actually almost disabled in business and the question is how will Russia still be able to endure it because it's literally isolated from the world. Putin, in his act, actually united the Western world because both economic and banking, sports, aviation, and many other sanctions were imposed. Furthermore, EU members including Croatia are sending military assistance to Ukraine. But unfortunately, every day war grows more and more bouquets. The death toll of Ukrainian soldiers, as well as civilians, is growing. More than 700,000 people left Ukraine, and those who remained are in shelters and fear for their lives. What is particularly worrying is that Kiev is being approached by miles of Russian tanks and no one knows how much longer Ukraine can fight and how much it can resist such attacks. We are also very concerned about the fact that rockets are falling just 15 kilometers from the Polish border, and we know that about 400,000 people from Ukraine have gone right to Poland. In addition, Ukraine is threatened by a humanitarian crisis because people did not hope for such a foolish attack by Russia and did not prepare supplies. The question is, therefore, how many people with all these attacks, with the ban on leaving the shelter, to get supplies and hygiene supplies, can endure it all together and the question is how many supplies and supplies are there at all. Therefore, with the sending of military aid, all other supplies need to be sent, so humanitarian aid should be sent. In addition to the terrible images from Ukraine, with pictures of poor frightened people to be spoken of by my colleague Nemet, I must say that we in IDS, of course, support this unity of the government and the opposition in terms of sending help, but we must point out that we are concerned about the economic consequences that follow in our country as well. This morning we received information that the problem with Sberbank was solved, which is good, not only because of 80,000 people who feared for their money, which we could see in the endless order of Friday when people were trying to get their money and close the accounts. We support going to rehab, HPB taking over the management of Sberbank, not only for the savings and clients of banks, but it is important to note that this will also preserve several hundred jobs. Moreover, unfortunately, it is undeniable that it will rise and for a long time the prices of energy will rise, and that is something we will not be able to stop. A few months ago, we warned about the problem of energy prices, and already, as a state, we had to have a clearly defined plan to reduce the economic consequences that would affect our citizens because of the present inflation and the increase in energy prices. It is inevitable that this Ukrainian crisis will further potentiate all the problems we face, so it is necessary that the government reacts and adopts long-term measures that will not be a fire resolution but rather a concrete plan to deal with the consequences that have been at stake for some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94564	The esteemed representative Nemet will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94565	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As my colleague Lerotić said, we in IDS, as always as everyone here is, are appalled and shocked by the scenes coming from Ukraine. It's outrageous that in Europe in 2022, unfortunately we witnessed something that we thought was part of the history books, that can't happen anymore. We thought that what we experienced 30 years ago in democratic and modern Europe would never happen again. But unfortunately it is happening, and the whole of Europe in infidelity faces severe aggression against Ukraine. For the past seven days, we have witnessed these terrible, earthquakeing and painful scenes from Ukraine. From the scene of the site to the difficult scenes at the border crossings with Ukraine. We believe that no one is immune to the scenes of the crying and frightened children, to the sad and earthquakeous scenes of the family's separation. It's something I believe no one can remain indifferent and cold. It is the worst horrors of war, a war where more and more civilians are killed every day, among which unfortunately the number of children killed is growing daily. A particular problem is the refugee crisis this war conflict will produce. More than 700 thousand people have already escaped from Ukraine, and every day, more and more of them flee from the terrible images of shelling, suffering, fear and uncertainty. People travel for days, many miles across the border on foot, people are tired, shocked and scared. It's mostly mothers with children. I stress that we support every type of assistance both the EU and Croatia. It's important at this point to show unity and solidarity. With caution, however, we are listening to government statements that we are ready to accept refugees because it is necessary to say that only 400 Ukrainian refugees have arrived in Croatia at this moment, mostly in private arrangements, in relation to relatives, friends, acquaintances. They're well organized and they know exactly where they're going. However, what we must be prepared for, and we hope that we really are, is that, over a certain period of time, we will surely get a far greater number of refugees. Some of the first forecasts speak of about 17,000 people, but since we do not know how long this situation in Ukraine will take, it is possible that this number will be higher. Of course, all these people, however many of them are to be admitted, need help from that first reception, when they arrive in our country after an exhausting journey. They need to be given everything they need, out of guard, warm blankets, roof over their heads, psychic help. These people will need to be helped in terms of temporary assimilation into society, adaptation to life in a community in which they were forced to flee from war horrors. I repeat, no one knows how long this aggression will last. But the government should think and plan how to enable these people to accept society, allow them to work, allow children to go to kindergartens, schools, to learn Croatian. We need to be aware that these people like us today, until just a week ago, the most normal people lived, went to jobs, schools, kindergartens, socializing, and all of them practically changed dramatically. At one point, their lives stopped with the sounds of sirens for danger and explosions, and many of them, with the mahogany of women and children, with literally a few things in their hands, began to save their lives. So I'm going to point out one more time. A step forward should be considered, these people should currently be helped as war refugees, but also ensure a decent life as long as they are in Croatia and therefore I call on the prime minister to do everything possible to make these unhappy people feel welcome in Croatia and to have genuine friends and partners in us. Anyone who has felt war horrors needs such support needs help and understanding. Croatia, unfortunately, knows very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94566	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So they say that repeating the mother of knowledge so perhaps it is necessary to condemn this barbaric act once again because I said if you remember when discussing the declaration the day the aggression started in Ukraine is the day that will live in a shameful memory, the day that will forever change the world, the international order, and certainly the face of Europe. But precisely because this time there was no cause, precisely because it is evident that it is an aggression against a sovereign and independent free state, it is worth condemning. Unfortunately, in Ukraine children are killed, civilians are killed, the war itself is a negation of civilization, and therefore there is no civilised war, but what I must say and why we are shocked is the constant rocketling of civilian targets, attacks on civilians who unfortunately happen and many lose their lives completely unnecessary because colleagues and colleagues are the only ones who create wars are cemeteries, and there are no enemies in cemeterys. With the support of the Ukrainian people, therefore, which is certainly unmistakable for us at the Social Democrats Club at no time doubted which side we should be on. I made that clear and demonstrated by going to a protest against war with my colleague Busic on the first day. Many of you may not have been informed on Monday at Ban Jelačić Square there was another protest the same in the organization of the Ukrainian Community in Croatia where I also tried to support my presence as much as we can the people who are suffering aggression, and unfortunately we have very much experience. I would also like to send support from this place to all Russian citizens protesting war and who are not afraid to raise their voice against aggression, who say it is not on their behalf. This is not the war of the Russian people and the Ukrainian people, this is the war of a regime that drives Russia into war with one brother all over the nation and that's what needs to be pointed out. You don't need to Satanize or demonize anyone, no collective responsibility, this is primarily the responsibility of the Russian Federation regime, the current president of Putin, and then everyone else. The situation in which we are located is serious and not only because the world order will change, and not only because many processes and many practices that have been established so far are forever damaged or damaged but also because of the security implications that this can have on Eastern Europe, humanitarian ones who will feel the whole of Europe, and then don't give God and nuclear or escalating into greater conflict. I've said it before and I'd like to repeat it once more that our thoughts with Ambassador Anica Djanic, who was here until this morning in Kiev. Kiev because the Russian name, I'm using Ukrainian Kiwi on purpose, which was in Kiev, I want her to be happy to get to Liviv where she'll continue her work. Together with the citizens of Kiev, she suffered aggression at the shelter, and I think it's a very strong message that we could send as a state. Who says diplomats can't be heroes or heroines? My colleagues and colleagues, she really is. When I was talking about the various implications this crisis is taking away, I meant, of course, energy, economic and security implications. First of all, it's the energy that we have to think about. If we had an LNG terminal, some of the wrong instructions were that some individuals were against LNG terminals. I personally was not against LNG terminals and my colleague and colleagues from the Social Democrats Club but against the technological solution that was offered, we still believe that not floating but a land LNG terminal would be much more efficient, have more capacity and be less harmful to the environment. But well, we have an LNG terminal at this point it's strategically important, but what we need to think about is how much LNG terminal capacity is actually available to us as a state. Because the LNG terminal or its capacity if it is charged to the end is that it has been supplying all of Croatia's gas for a year. However, we know that certain capacities are purchased until the second half of the two thousand twenty-seven years, so I think it would be good to think strategically, and it would be good for the Prime Minister and the Government to report to the Croatian public, but also for us how many capacities we have available for gas. It's also necessary to look for alternative suppliers, I think we already have that part, so I think we're on the right track. The second set of implications is economic. The sanctions will naturally be felt by the Russian Federation, the consequences are already suffering, which is the devaluation of the laundry, etc., but we will feel what sanctions we impose, or sanctions we declare. I have already talked to representatives of companies operating in the Russian Federation who are extremely concerned, are currently dealing with assessments of how much damage will actually be, or the range of sanctions is still not clear and I believe that through the competent institutions and the HGK they will address the government very quickly after assessing their capacity to amortise any damage and to say what help they should be. I think the government should listen to them, and so should we as HS and try to help them get through this difficult moment. Also inflation and food supply is one of the essential elements that we need to discuss and which must be on our mind. I think it's finally time we really thought seriously about our agriculture, agricultural production not as it says in that strategy but really try to be self-sufficient in some things because we are currently in very little agricultural products self-sufficient. First of all, I think of grains and olives that are mainly imported from Ukraine, which are mostly agricultural products that are mostly from imports, more specifically from the war-affected areas. And we end up with security implications. I think it is extremely important that the police, military and intelligence services are now doing their job, to closely monitor the situation primarily in the region, but also in Croatia itself and be ready to react to any scenario to happen. The situation in the region is alarming. Our neighbour, Serbia, has openly sided with the aggressor. I can't say that I am surprised not by this authority in Serbia, but that I am absolutely disappointed. This is no longer the time to calculate. I think it's clear to all of us that Vukic has been sitting on several chairs all the time, this is no longer the time to calculate, it has to be clear whether Serbia is wanted in Europe or in a joint state with the Russian Federation, or with such a regime. I think there's something the Serbian public has to say, but it's a good thing it's another country's internal matter. It also worries the situation in Montenegro. Unfortunately, if you've been following some situations, they're very reminded of the balvana revolution from the beginning of the 1990s. It is very worrying that, at such a time of instability, Montenegro currently does not have a government, i.e. it has a technical and no president of the Assembly. I hope that changes in the next few days. And of course Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, Mr Dodik and Republika Srpska, is something that I have talked about many times both in this pay phone and in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, the statements made by Mr. Dodik again point to some sympathy for the Russian Federation even at the moment. And I think now everyone knows what kind of politics such a man advocates. I'm very sad that some structures in Croatia have quite forced cooperation with such a man, because whoever's with the devil's gourd, I don't think it's ever going well. So colleagues and colleagues have a lot of work to do, and we need to focus very much on what is coming to us because this conflict changes a lot of things in the world order. And I'd end up with, of course, the glory of Ukraine, I believe the glory because, as I said, it's no longer just a Ukrainian greeting, it's a greeting to the free democratic world. It is a greeting to all that is contrary to aggression, which is the opposite of war and what is the opposite of dictatorship. Last but not least, I think it would be better to condemn the Republic of Belarus, which often escapes our focus. That's what the Prime Minister did, though, but I want him to go through a harsh condemnation to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94568	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives will speak to the esteemed representative Damir Bajs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94569	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Says the old saying of two Croats, three political parties. It shows one division that we have through history but there are times when we all get together, even today. This time we defy that saying. This means that the president of the state and the Prime Minister are in the same position, that the government is within the state and this Parliament, and the opposition is in the same position. This shows that citizenship and all people living in Croatia have the same thinking, which is that this moment, which is the moment of aggression of the Russian Federation towards the Republic of Ukraine the moment of change, change in Europe, change in the world and change for all of us who live here. I must say that we are pleased by the fact that at a moment of need we are gathered together to help Ukraine as much as possible not only because we are in NATO and the EU, not because we need to meet our obligations to them but because we want to. And the citizens of Croatia are gathering themselves, which means collecting help and wanting in any way to enable the citizens of Ukraine to overcome the crisis in the best possible way at this difficult moment. Of course, it's being joined by Focus as a constituency club, independent representatives, and of course I myself. This also reminds us of the Homeland War, situations when we had refugees in Croatia, so I am sure we will be able to accept refugees from Ukraine and I would say help them live in Croatia in the best possible way. We helped and therefore help Ukraine, which means humanitarian aid, but we also have to say military aid. So, the 4 brigades that received weapons from the Croatian Army and the Croatian state actually enables the fight against the Russians, I would say the attack forces, the occupiers, those who are where they shouldn't be. But I'll also say again let's not look equally at the Russian Federation and the Russian citizens. So that's the situation where we need Putin's regime, but many Russians are fighting this. But when we look at what is before us, we are also facing some challenges that the government must respond to. There's a lot of them, I'll only point out two. One security aspect and one aspect concerning the standards of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As for the security aspect, of course, the question is how this crisis will affect this part of Europe. The Prime Minister himself said that there are security problems in three countries nearby. I think that Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian government and all of us who live here must remove any danger of a recurring situation from the 1990s and that this security threat that clearly exists, which has been confirmed and is under control for this speaker. Activities in the EU, in the NATO Alliance or wherever it is necessary, I hope they are already happening. When we talk about another, I'll say it's a matter of standard. There is no doubt that the set of measures we have adopted as of course the Croatian government but with the support of this House will make the situation difficult in the Russian Federation. However, so are all those who brought it, which are EU members but also the United States and many other countries, and have made it clear that this will have an effect on Croatian citizens in this case. And I will say that the package of measures that has been brought and brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia before this Ukrainian crisis, that means that inflation increases in energy, the rise in the price of food products and all that it will bring, and I must say that just today HEP has sent notices to its consumers to raise prices. That means it's not a matter of tomorrow, it's a matter of today, to make additional support measures, not measures before Ukraine, but measures that are now in line with this situation we're in. And when I say that this was predicted practically and all the countries within the EU, that means we have to do it too. What we've done so far is not enough. We don't want anything to happen to us that's happened in the last 10 years. 400,000 of our citizens left Croatia, 9% and over 9%. If the standard for us started to fall rapidly, this number could also increase significantly, and therefore the responsibility of the Government is also to address the security situation which clearly exists and the situation in Croatia. Measures are to be taken in this case towards the Russian Federation, but it should be ensured that those citizens who have the right to do so receive support in a way that their standards do not fall too much. Why do I say not too much? It's hard to expect in this situation that he's growing, but we want him to be at least on this level that he is now. And there's no time, no choice. He's got to deal with it. And today, the prime minister only said the measures are enough for now. I would disagree with him in this regard and will need additional measures, the activities of all of us to ensure that these measures still have as little effect on us as possible. In any case, our thoughts are with Ukraine, and right now I'm going to say that I hope this unity will prevail in some other situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94570	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will now speak the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94571	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club today expresses its full support for the solidarity and support programmes and measures provided by the government of the Republic of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. We also share the feelings of solidarity shown here in the Croatian Parliament on Friday and today. In particular, we consider important humanitarian activities, humanitarian aid, refugee reception programmes and sanctions that we share as a member state of the EU together with other countries as part of the political measures to combat war activities and combat the invasion of the Republic of Ukraine. We also consider it an important political advocate and support for Ukraine's interest in European and wider scales. As a club, we stand at the stand of a strong human rights policy and respect for international regulations and laws of the customs of war. So in advance and in time, clear messages are sent to those who could violate human rights, especially those who could violate international customs of war in the field of committing war crimes or serious violations of humanitarian law. We feel and personally think that this is particularly important to emphasize today and at this point as well as every next day until peace is established. This war can take a while, and it can take a long time. We advocate that it lasts as soon as possible. We advocate the interruption of war activities and a possible peace agreement to preserve human lives, restricting the increase of the number of refugees and displaced persons, exiles within Ukrainian territory, and especially war destruction and destruction of the goods of Ukrainian society. In that sense, we are encouraged to start negotiations on ceasefire, but we are also concerned by the continued military activities of the Russian Federation's armed forces. We hope that the activities on the international plan will be strengthened, with measures to address the further extension of the conflict, efforts to reach a peace agreement because it is in the interest of Ukraine, because it is in Europe's interest. Although war is fought relatively far from us, if such a thing is possible today with modern means of war and modern ways of war. Our economy cannot remain intact by war in Ukraine. That is why our own economy needs to be concerned at the level of state of emergency. The banking sector, many companies in the trade and energy sector, I am the energy sector and energy prices are particularly affected and can affect our economy and the everyday lives of our citizens in a way that would be bad and that could create what no one wants, and that means that we suffer the consequences that we didn't deserve to suffer. In that sense, every commendation is the measures taken yesterday when it comes to the relationship with Sberbanci. If every such next step is taken in the sectors that I mentioned, then our citizens can count on exactly what I mentioned, and this is on the full allergy of our government for everything that it is able to do when it comes to removing the consequences of our economy, by our economy. So treating this as some sort of state of emergency. So much seems to me to be a bit of a ridiculous strain on how much and how the army is raised to a higher level of activity. Indeed, it's only one segment. Economic segment, security segment, absolutely. The foreign policy segment, in different aspects, including the one I'm going to talk about in the next part of our speech. It's our interest, but I'm going to say two words about tourism, as branches of an individual that make up a significant component of our economy. For this reason, we need to act with caution, carefulness, because that kind of attachment is exactly the way it is. Sensitive to any possible risk and to any possible danger and all that we are doing so far in this regard, with obviously some losses that will be inevitable, it is extremely important that these losses are not multipled. Nowhere, not in EU countries, and preferably not in countries of our region. It is our interest and our responsibility as members of the Union, I say ours, thinking of the Republic of Croatia, to engage intensively with our neighborhood. I know we've done this before, and I know that government members led with the Prime Minister especially in relation to BiH, but other countries have also led very intensive activities. Almost at the level of some kind of extraordinary political action. I believe that this will continue, all signs show this, including last night's talks by the Prime Minister with a representative, the leading representative of the Croatian people in BiH. I believe that these activities will expand in one way or another to other actors in BiH, but also in our wider neighbourhood, Montenegro, R. Serbia and others. Why? Because, as has already been pointed out here, it is in the speech of the Prime Minister himself, as well as the representatives who have addressed our interest and our obligation as a member of the EU. In this area, the EU has lost a lot of time because of its problems, but at the same time because of underestimating the dangers when conflicts are frozen and what they can.../incomprehensible/... they bring in when they freeze from one side, conflicts in other places and when they start to warm up and grow into huge conflicts, such as the war in Ukraine, has the potential to rise. For this reason, we believe that the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will do what it can in line with its humble forces with the interests of regional stability, peace and common convergence with EU values. And as for the EU, I will say only that, the entire area of the former Yugoslavia that is not yet integrated into the Union plus Albania should be subject to special interest. Not to be left on the wind of geopolitical conflicts, as it has been over the past 10 years. And finally, our feelings are with the Ukrainian people regardless of what faiths are, which are languages or which are political beliefs. Our feelings that the less they suffer and that the sooner they live in peace are strong and lasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94572	The next Club of Representatives will be the national minority, and the honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94573	Thank you, Vice-President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll tell you the truth, I was hoping I'd never have to experience the situation of war on the ground in Europe again. This moment we are in is certainly a turning point in the modern history of Europe and the world. The aggression of one modern state to another modern state is an act of every reasonable condemnation and I hope that in the name of reason war in Ukraine will be interrupted. I would also like to say that I would like to commend Croatia, or its government, and the EU that is a member, for the quick and direct assistance of the Ukrainians. It is precisely at times like this that it is important to show solidarity and humanity, and the continuation of such access is exactly what I think Croatia should do, and now, after only a week of aggression from Ukraine has escaped over half a million people, and at this point, new refugees are coming across borders to other countries, as unfortunately, it does not seem that the acts of war are dropping, it is likely that these figures will be much greater in the coming weeks. I am pleased that Croatia is already showing its great heart and that we have provided timely shelter for all who need shelter from war destruction, the same as other countries and other peoples for the citizens of Croatia did when there was almost the same scenario of the '90s, open and unwarranted aggression, we are so much more invited to speak openly against what happens at our door because we were not so long ago in the same situation. As far as I'm watching the news and social media, I can see that there's no shortage of goodwill, and that's why my heart has to say a lot. In the war that has hit the largest European state, not only are the Ukrainians suffering but all the other nations and nations living there. All of them, regardless of whether they belong to a nation or religion, should be allowed to come to safety and to have a roof over their heads and their food until they can return to their homeland. Also, if someone wants to stay and I am convinced that Croatia has enough heart and opportunities to do so. At this moment almost the whole of Europe is united and it is important to know and see that the EU is behind its values. This is another indicator of its importance for all its members and a good guideline for further strengthening ties and better integration because stronger and deeper integration guarantees that there will be no new wars and new refugees in the future. That is precisely why I hope that this will be an incentive for the EU to grant Ukraine candidate status for EU membership that they want so badly and where, according to the Ukrainians, they want to be at the most difficult times in their country's history. Ignoring such a requirement at this time would be devastating for the entire EU. I thank the prime minister for this report and for the rapid reaction that was absolutely necessary, especially at an extraordinary cabinet meeting where a number of important decisions were made. One of them is also a feature on the establishment of an inter-resor working group on reception activity and the management of the refugee population from Ukraine, which also provides for the involvement of representatives of the Ukrainian national minority in the Republic and the inter-resor working group. I also thank Vice-President Milosevic for coordinating the work of this group, as well as all other resolutions involved in these activities, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Red Cross and the Centres for Acceptance of Plitvice, Osijek and others, and, of course, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which have not left Kiev so far, as they have done much bigger countries than us at the very beginning of the aggression. At times like this, it is important to know as much information as possible and have very precise views as possible, I have already said that Croatia has already contributed and as far as I understand it will continue. I must also say that at times like this, it is important to remain human in every way and that no matter how difficult it may be, we should not condemn entire nations at any time for the actions of individuals or political elites. More than ever before it is necessary to show solidarity with all those who want peace and cease war, the declarations this time will not be enough. I would also mention a protest by Russian citizens against this evil that I welcome, and I congratulate them on their courage. It is important to note that this is not a conflict of the city's peoples but a conflict of irrational policies of a small number of powerful men who destroy the entire country, at the same time destroying their own. We must never interfere with the effort it takes to maintain peace between the states and the nations, and we should keep in mind that this is a process that requires constant effort and effort. We should not take a period of peace and progress for granted and sneak into the belief that certain things can never happen again. History and human action always deny us when it comes to and I believe and hope that we will come out of this tragic war as soon as possible and with as few human casualties as possible. All buildings and other buildings will once again be built, but we cannot bring people back to life and that is what should always be kept in mind when someone starts to speak in defense of aggression. Finally, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its rapid reaction and for including all parliamentary parties in this process. I hope that the unity of the free world in relation to this situation will help stop the war as soon as possible and that the suffering and destruction will stop as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94574	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, two MPs, counterpart Pavliček and counterpart Milanović Litre will speak. First colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94575	Dear President of HS, the respected prime minister, Minister Grlic Radman, respected colleagues and colleagues. Seven days ago, something happened that few of us could and thought could happen on the European continent in the 21st century, which is war. The aggression of one independent state to another independent state without, realistically speaking, any occasion. In this case, the Russian Federation in Ukraine. And for the first time perhaps in its history, the EU reacted quickly, which is not its characteristic, but on the 2nd day sanctions were imposed on the Russian Federation, but on the 4th day a decision was made to send military assistance to Ukraine. And I am glad that Croatia has also decided to go this way. However, we must look forward to both the future and the step forward. According to the EU Commission's assessment, about 4 million citizens of Ukraine will head to the West, towards Western Europe, towards the EU, fleeing from Russia's aggression. Croatia must be ready to receive these refugees, whether several thousand, several tens of thousands or 100, 200 or more thousands. But what is even more important is that today plans must be drawn up and how these people are integrated into Croatian society. Already today, legal proposals should be made to make their adjustment as painless as possible, to allow children to integrate as quickly as possible into the Croatian school system, to learn the language as quickly as possible, to get adults into the labour market as possible, to think about legal proposals concerning primarily Ukrainian refugees, as regards the acquisition of Croatian citizenship. But also as regards certain benefits, as regards the acquisition of real estate in the Republic of Croatia, because we must bear in mind that a good part of these refugees will not be able or will not want to return to Ukraine precisely because of the war. In fact, this morning when I came to Zagreb on a local radio, I listened to three families from Ukraine come to Vukovar last night. It's about three women and seven underage children whose fathers have been working in Vukovar for years. And what's important, none of them want to go back to Ukraine anymore, they want to continue their lives in Croatia. Croatia must make it possible for them and they should feel their own here. In doing so, we need to think about the other component, and these are strategic goods supplies. Unfortunately, they did not prove themselves and proved themselves at the time of the Banovina earthquake, especially in the first weeks where the people, the cheerleading groups, who helped those who were unhappy, were primarily gathered together. Strategic stock supplies must work hastily to increase their capacity so that we are no longer surprised by what surprised us at Banovina. Also, you should think about where Croatia is. In a very unstable environment. Our neighbouring countries are still of great interest to the Russian Federation today. Aleksandar Vukic is the only statesman other than Putin and Lukashenko who has not openly convicted and imposed sanctions against the Russian Federation, and Milorad Dodik calls Ukrainian soldiers in Kiev terrorists. Croatia must raise troops to a higher level of preparedness and the Croatian Army must be at the eastern borders of Croatia. Not to further raise tensions, but to just the opposite ensure the safety of her fellow citizens. The Croatian army must be in the near future not only in Vukovar, but also in Baranja, but also in Ilok, as well as in Lipovac, at all eastern borders, because apparently after this move, Alexander Vukic will once and for all be the border between the East and the West between Croatia and Serbia. Right on the river, on the Danube River. There will always be a limit to stability and instability here in our area, so we must think clearly and loudly about the safety of our citizens, and unfortunately we can only achieve this if the Croatian Army is at the eastern Croatian borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94576	The fellow Milanovic litre will continue now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94577	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. The war in Ukraine doesn't last for weeks, but after the first two days of open Russian aggression, everyone thought that Ukraine was over, that it was run over like a shallow stream. Then in the next few days it turned out that the expected Putin's blitzkrieg had suffered a disaster in indeed, according to all the analyses of military strategies, the aggression in Ukraine seemed more like a military action rather than an invasion. Information and media messages change from hour to hour. At times when skepticism towards mainstream media is growing, it is also necessary to be extremely careful when transferring information to the public. Because two days ago, a Croatian newspaper conveyed information that Denis Scheller, a volunteer of the Homeland War, a national hero of Ukraine and a member of Croatian sovereigns in Croatia, collected weapons for war in Ukraine, which is a pure factory, nor was he planning to do it, nor would he do it, nor did he say it. These things must not happen, especially when we are in exceptional circumstances. Dennis asked me to thank all the representatives for your support and assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in these difficult times. In Ukraine, but also in Russia against its people, Putin's regime is waging an information war. We are witnesses of hundreds of videos of captured Russian soldiers, young men in their early 20s who call their mothers and explain to them that they were sent to Ukraine, and were told by the Russian command to go to military exercise and to be welcomed as the liberators of the Ukrainian people, and were welcomed as robbers and aggressors as they are. But you shouldn't be naive. It's just a small part of Russian aggressors, reservers that were activated a few weeks ago. The second part belongs to those who flee from the Ukrainians leaving all their equipment and vehicles just as they did last week in Harkive. The third part is mercenaries who already have experience in warfare like the so-called. Wagner Group, which was active in 2014, shoulder to shoulder with Russian military forces, terrorists such as the Russian Imperial Movement and Separatists as part of Russian efforts to join Crimea. A significant number of parts of the Russian army belonging to the category of war crimes have been gathered in these under - full week in Ukraine. General Svacic was the first in the Croatian Parliament to warn about this problem last week, and recently before the declaration of Ukraine was voted on and yesterday we were able to read the news that the International Criminal Court urgently launched an investigation against Russia for war crimes in the Ukraine area. Ukraine has accepted the ISS as competent in the case of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by any party in this conflict and in any part of Ukrainian territory which Russia of course did not. It's important to know how this war is waged by Russia. In these less than a week, they've been cold-blooded killing civilians, shooting at journalists' cars, one of which was killed in Herson. They fired on civilian buses in the province of Sumi and later prevented the arrival of an ambulance. They rocketed residential buildings in Harkew, Kiev,... The areas, Sumi... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They openly attacked emergency aids, shelled a children's oncology hospital in northern Harkiva, shelled a hospital in the Vuhledar suburb of Donjeck, and used cast and thermobaric bombs that were banned under the Geneva Convention. Although we have bad experience with the International Courts, it is good that this initiative was launched at the very beginning of the conflict. It's important to list all the crimes and remember them. Ukraine is a friendly, brotherly country of Croatia. I am pleased on the first aid package that we officially send as a state as well as at reception centres that are open to refugees from Ukraine. I am proud that the Croatian people understand, understand and feel a great connection with the Ukrainian people and that we now see from this connection the self-organization of Croats and Croats about collecting humanitarian aid and hosting refugees from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94578	Thank you. We are going to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94579	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State. Croatia and the International Community bear witness to nothing caused by a brutal attack by the Russian army on Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and the stability of the Ukrainian state are at risk. Civilians and children are killed, millions of refugees are forced to leave their homes. An unremembered bloody campaign of war that the world has not experienced since World War II is a threat to global peace. His hegemonistic and imperialistic aspirations and aspirations and Putin's regimes are under the cover of alleged demilitarisation and dedication of the neighbouring sovereign and independent state of Ukraine. And that is why both Croatia and the world are obliged to stand in defense of the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine by providing real and active assistance to a friendly people, one of the same people who among the first after Slovenia and Lithuania in the crucial moments of the Homeland War on 11 December 1991 recognised the sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia. And Croatia knows very well what it means to fight for democracy and to decide on its own fate. Croatia knows very well what it means to be a victim of territorial pretentiousness and to defend and defend its homeland against the superior aggressor. Therefore, Croatia can only be on the side of democratic, sovereign and attacked Ukraine, on the side of justice, peace and freedom. That is why we have been shown the utmost importance of political unity in the clear condemnation of aggression on Ukraine. Of course, we welcome last week's vote in the Croatian Parliament, where almost unanimously with one abstention the adopted Declaration on Ukraine. I would especially like to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reacted quickly in the first hours of the attack on Ukraine. The package of measures includes the provision of humanitarian and health assistance, reception and management of refugees from Ukraine. A decision has been taken to provide military assistance as well as a ban on the use of airspace to Russian air carriers and Russian aircraft. Furthermore, the government has also appointed a crisis centre to monitor the implementation of an intervention plan on measures to protect security of gas supply to the Republic of Croatia, as well as an expert commission to monitor the security of supply of oil and petroleum products markets, and to respond accordingly. For the economic and financial aspects of sanctions, the exclusion of the Russian Central Bank and 7 commercial banks between the national financial transaction system is extremely important. It is clear that Croatia, how Croatia will join these and other proposed financial sanctions packages. The timely response of Croatia and the takeover of Sberbank by the HPB has prevented the traumas of many of our fellow citizens, above all, from saving Sberbanka, as well as the execution of all their financial commitments, and it is clear that the sanctions of the Russian Federation will harm both Croatia and the entire EU, we are aware of that and we must be prepared to do so. But what's the alternative. This is the moment when we choose between our opportunism observed through the prism of current and material and our values that are lasting and universal. This is the moment when we choose between passive observation of the occupation of Ukraine, avoidance of clear and unequivocal condemnation of Russia and preservation of trade with Russia on the one hand, but on the other hand the principleal condemnation of Russian aggression, expression of solidarity with Ukraine and providing assistance to the Ukrainian people are aware that such an attitude of the Republic will cause Russia's reaction. But there is no doubt about it. Passivity would be immoral under these circumstances. However this conflict ended, it is important to know before the court in history that Croatia has placed itself on the side of justice and international justice, democracy and freedom in crucial moments. We must not kneel and be blackmailed by gas and reaction from Moscow. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these moments show how important it is for Croatia and the Croatian people to persist in meeting our national strategic goals. In the 1990s we secured ourselves with victory in the defence, fair and liberating Homeland War freedom, independence and territorial integrity of Croatia. We owe the greatest credit to Croatian defenders and the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. In the first 10th century, we became a NATO member. This reliable partnership with countries of high democratic values and principles enables us to have long-term stability and security in the international community. In the second 10th century, we also became an EU member. What is the importance of membership in that community is best witnessed by recent events and solidarity expressed among other things in the pandemic crisis and the post-traumatic restoration of Croatia. Two other important strategic goals, integration into Schengen space and the Euro area, are ahead of us in the third 10th century, and we will reach them. On this road, however, it is equally important to lead a sovereign national policy. This government is fully committed to meeting these objectives, and while others have doubted the projects that achieve the sovereign position of Croatia, the government has continued to insist on such a policy by building LNG terminals in Krk, we provide alternative supply routes and security of supply. By building the Peljega Bridge, we have a territorial connection between the divided Croatia. The spread of HV throughout Croatia from Vukovar, Ploč, Pula, Varazdin and Sinj enables more operational flexibility and speed of reaction in support of the home security system. By obtaining a squadron of Raphal fighter aircraft, we acquire a powerful strategic means of return and raise the military ability of Croatia we have never had before. All of these projects are being sent a clear message in this globalised world in which Russia's aggression against Ukraine is collapsing so far the security international order that we know how to take care of our strategic national interests. We send this and a message that Croatia's strong international position is suitable for our geostrategic position is primarily derived from our internal organisation and strength, but also from the political maturity of the Croatian people to be firmly... in the position of reason, peace, freedom, democracy and contributes to the establishment of international rights and justice. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, given the geopolitical fragility of Southeast Europe, in particular the political instability of our environment, it is necessary to continue the international activities of the Croatian government to find a solution in order to overcome the situation in the conduct of elections in BiH, as well as the establishment of an executive government in Montenegro. I'm finishing my debate by returning to a difficult situation in Ukraine. Croatia cannot look beyond this aggression, we cannot look at or accept capitulation in front of the world's most brutal opposition to the international law as we know it and as defined by the UN Charter. Standing by for freedom and democracy of the Ukrainian people today is the only way to go. The European future of Ukraine and its EU membership can and will help overcome the consequences of this unreasonable, unacceptable and unwarranted war. Therefore, in order to stop the terrible crimes, in order to stop the loss of the Ukrainian people, to destroy economic, transport and social infrastructure in Ukraine, in order to preserve the Ukrainian people and states, we call here from HS Putin and Russia to currently stop aggression and access to peace negotiations based on international law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94580	Let's go to the Green-Left bloc Club debate, two representatives of colleagues Glavasevic and counterpart Bencic, first to speak from counterpart Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94581	The first shocks of the war he brought us last week are now behind us. In the warstorm, the EU and its allies stand united more than ever before. I'm sorry that it took one of the greatest aggressions to happen, and I'm sorry that this unity was paid by the blood and tears of innocent Ukrainians and Ukrainians. There's a time in life for everything. It's time for courage. It's time for mourning. It's solidarity time. Time for wisdom. Time to act and time to stop and think about the next steps. Last week was a time of solidarity for us, but also for grief. We have opened the door to refugees from Ukraine and as someone who has tasted all the bitterness of persecution I am happy and proud that my Croatia has thus shown its great heart. We've sent help to Ukraine, and we'll send more soon enough. It was time to act and act. And I am proud of it both as a representative in this assembly and as a Vukovar who knows well and hopes that help will come and despair momentarily realizes that help is not coming. Before Kiev was Vukovar, Croatia remembers it. And Croatia therefore stands by Ukraine with words and deeds precisely because they did not stand with us in our hour of need. There's a time ahead where we need to think about how to move on. The countries in our environment are targets of Russian intelligence. We saw it in an attempt to hit Montenegro a few years ago, but also last week's roadblock in the country. The following days, Nikolaj Patrushev, Putin's chief intelligence officer, arrives in Serbia. Alexander Wolfie will see him. Since he will certainly not talk about the time or arrival of spring, it is clear that Vukic chose the side with this, and this side knows for a fact which way in the career of Vukic is the side of the bully. Milorad Dodik calls Kiev's defenders an armed gang and Sarajevo's Camp for Serbs. The EU's confidence in promises made by Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania and Montenegro is on never lower branches, as well as confidence in the accession process. I would like to make it clear that if the EU does not do something urgent to restore that trust, it will push those countries right into Russia's bear hug. Putin's regime is working tirelessly to make that happen. That is why our government must be loud enough for Western Balkan countries to return to good faith in the accession process. In the end, I want to say something about unity. It is something very rare in politics and reserved for major crises, and unfortunately this war is, it is a major crisis. And that's what unity is about. But unity must not become a weapon for silence and foreshadowing inexperience as a destroyer of unity or internal enemies. And I'm afraid I've seen it here today. The disagreement and diversity of opinions are at the heart of democracy and parliamentaryism of colleagues and colleagues. With MOSTs, Karolina Vidović Kristo or my colleague, Peović, I have significant differences in opinion and values, but when someone, and especially the prime minister, questions their patriotism or paints them as unital breakers, it is a shameful and inadmissible delegation of non-sanitary people. Don't look for enemies in this house of colleagues and colleagues and the Prime Minister who isn't here. There's no enemy here. The real enemy is in front of Kiev, Hakiv, Zitomir. While you're looking for him where he's gone, he's destroying his lives and grieving his mothers and taking away his arms and kissing people who love each other. And our problems are still there. And pandemics and reconstructions from earthquakes and corruptions at the top of the government. Yes, Ukraine and our security are currently in focus, but we will have to solve those problems that were the main social issues until just two weeks ago. We remain in our minds with all the good people in Ukraine, but also those in Russia who, because they are against war, will suffer and be branded as traitors. And fighting for peace and rebellion against tyrants is a patriotism pair of excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94582	Now a colleague of Bencic's will speak, please, just a second to wipe out the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94583	I would like to point out that as a Green-Left bloc club, not only are we now in solidarity with the citizens of Ukraine and, of course, all those living in cities or refugees from those cities that are in war conflicts, but I want to highlight and support all those in Russia citizens and citizens who sacrifice their freedom daily and their lives by going out into the streets, protesting this war. We sometimes forget them in these conversations, and they are actually extremely important in this whole crisis and may be the key to the solution to this crisis if they persist and succeed in giving away the protests they have. I also want to point out for the reasons why it is these citizens and citizens who have long recognized what Putin's policy is and what Putin's policy does to them, but also to the world. Several times in different aspects of Croatian politics, we talked about the harmfulness of binding, connecting or tolerate spreading Russian influence through Russian capital. One of the things that we particularly pointed out and pointed out was, we were at great risk for our food sector and the supply sector by the fact that Agrokor, today fortenova, is mostly owned by VTB and Sberbank Russia. I also pointed out in the replica today as one of the risks we see in the supply and production and agricultural production issues, because the fact that Fortenova has actually received a large amount of agricultural land, as well as concessions on water sources and that it is Croatian interest, it is Croatian interest to return these concession rights and to return it in a way that they can be used for public interests, not for the private interests of the majority owners of Forten. We would also like to point out that also energy policy, the energy policy of Croatia, which has been tied to Hungarian policy for a very long time where Prime Minister Orban was one of the likes of European Putin's friends, is also not good and that we have relied on it for too long and we haven't actually created capacities for our energy independence. Today, the prime minister highlighted the success of the LNG project that will save us from gas supplies. The fact is, even though we have LNG that you haven't answered us, and we're looking for these answers in the context of possible prevention measures and... The energy further crisis as much as the quantities not borrowed from MET, from Hungarian MET or other companies, means how many opportunities we actually have to manage which LNG capacities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That, too, has not been received today. I want to say that in the Green-Left Block Club, we are primarily now focusing on measures that will ensure food self-sufficiency or at least basic security for the period 2022-2023. and we believe that we may not be alarmed enough about the potential of the impact of this war on the food security of the Republic of Croatia, as well as energy security. On the issue of food security we can still do a lot and I hope there will be enough wisdom here to use NPOO funds now, but also budget funds to invest in food self-sufficient now because it is the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94584	Now let's go to the last club debate, it's the club of representatives of the HNSU and the Independent Representatives, the esteemed colleague of Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94585	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Every war is the suffering, the pain, the destruction and the death, and from the position of the one whom the war struck, all wars are the same. From the position of military analysts, a comment in the media every war by performance and narrative can be different, but in essence, the one he was gripping was the same anywhere in the world. We are pleased, colleagues and colleagues, that after a long time, a consensus has been reached between domestic political actors on an important international issue which unfortunately affects and will also affect national political developments, as well as fate and our citizens. Otherwise, I am not inclined to boast without cover, but in this case my club and I believe that the reaction of the Croatian state authorities to the ongoing and development of the international crisis caused by the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine was timely, measured and consistent with measures taken by the international community with a significant dose of empathy and friendship towards the attacked Ukrainian people. As a country itself exposed to merciless and barbaric military aggression, the Republic of Croatia has gained great experience in the plan to overcome the humanitarian crisis and help and accommodation of refugees. It is our tragic war experience that obliges us to give the Ukrainian people unreservedly all technical, humanitarian and human aid and support. But in this period ahead of us, which apparently brings new card mixes to the international and political and European scene that we are part of, and thus brings us new challenges, we must not forget the security and needs of our citizens and the interests of our country. Of course, we are not an island, but we also have to do everything to protect our interests and depend less on external factors. Recently in the assembly, I spoke of Croatia as a country that can and must be self-sufficient in all aspects of the functioning of good society. These events on the international scene from the pandemic, the energy crisis to the escalation of the conflict reminded us that we need to think about our own options so that this and every future crisis, wherever it happens, will be welcomed ready. Our first priority must be energy independence, or control of energy resources, and the self-sufficiency of food for which we have very potential. We can also be sufficient in the production of many things, and it is time for us to start doing this seriously. Furthermore, unlike many people here who speak and in some way talk about the fear that is happening in our neighborhood, we do not have to, we really do not have to live in fear of what our neighbours are doing because we are members of the NATO alliance and of the EU and there are other obligations of these alliances that we belong to as a member. We don't have to give them too much of an importance because they're irrelevant. We need to know what's going on in our neighborhood, but we need to know that they will respect us just as much as we are successful, efficient, solidarity and orderly society. Finally, I would like to appeal to all of us, and to all of our citizens, not to succumb to the atmosphere of blaming everything and everyone for the war conflict. We know who's to blame and let's be precise about defining guilt. All nations are hostages of their own leadership. Since we are on the right side of history, we must not blame the entire nation but merely his leadership. It is one dictator and his listeners, or one unlived human ego, who is to blame. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's always be on the side of those who are being shot at. Let's stay close to them, be with them, share their pain and suffering. We help them, and we wish them to decide for themselves and decide their own future. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94586	Now, a respected colleague, Zekanovic, will speak in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94587	The Honorable President of HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. He says Russia's support, March 4th, 16 hours past the monument to Emperor Nikolai, of course, in Belgrade, just so we know who we're dealing with. Let's never ignore it, some will say they're too weak, they're too hungry, they can shoot us with sticks and guns at water, however, enough, unfortunately experience teaches us that sometimes they can be crazy enough to make a big evil. Let's see what scenarios we actually have available today. We have a scenario for Russia soon in 15 days to conquer Ukraine. What do you think the end is? Do we think Putin will stand in Ukraine or perhaps take a step further, towards Moldova and perhaps towards the coastal states? I don't think that's the end of it, and then I think that this conflict would easily, easily or very probably spill over into our space, just cook itself. Let's do another scenario. Ukraine miraculously defeated Russia. And do you think Putin will let him be defeated? Well, of course not. And those threats that looked fantastic, and when he threatened both with the annexation of Crimea and when he threatened with aggression on Ukraine, they turned out worse than he actually predicted, that is, what he announced. Do we have any third scenarios, interplays? And he had some scenario that Putin achieved his goals in Ukraine in part and that at some peace talks at the green table he arranged something to make Putin happy or, of course, the West, it's us. Because that third scenario is likely, I'll say least likely. So we're staying on these two first scenarios that are both very sinister. And we have to be prepared for the most vicious scenarios because they are currently the most reliable. I'll even say, with great certainty that what's going to happen, will come out of the box of any world turbulence we've had so far. With great certainty to say. And the world will never be nearly the same as it was. And even if the nuclear conflict that we are threatened to avoid, not nearly, for our lifetime, our children's lifetime, the world is completely different. Nor the shadow of the world that was before. A little bit about the famous nuclear conflict, I always have to point out 100 times, we can't spread panic, but we also need to talk about that scenario. Just to break one mantra, that's not possible. Two people in the world have, not only two, more, but two are important. One's name is Joe, the other's name is Vladimir, not Zelensky, but Putin, they have this famous red button, the red button. And they're able to really at any moment command a nuclear strike or selective some tactical or the real one. And there is no procedure within those states that could prevent them. It doesn't exist. At the moment these people, those two presidents of those two states give orders, that procedure just moves. Unfortunately, we've seen that Vladimir Putin's nothing is impossible. That he's ready, and he's proven it, he's proving it today, with fighter planes, tanks, armored transporters, with multi-pipe rocket launchers hitting Ukraine. So let's talk about all the scenarios, be prepared for the worst, let's not spread panic. What we can intervene on, it's our neighborhood and let's be prepared, but let's not ignore and forget that major threat, and the main threat comes from Moscow. I'll do it again since this morning's debate. We're sending 124 million military equipment to Ukraine, I'm up for it, but we need to be aware that for our help, military aid Ukraine knows and Putin. We are not the only ones helping, but we must be aware that we are not doing this under the bank but are doing it publicly and transparently and of course Slava Ukraine!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94588	We are now moving on to an individual debate and a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, has appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94589	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's job is to solve the problems of regular or extraordinary as far as the war in Ukraine is concerned. at the EU border, but Croatia is not invited to settle disputes involving nuclear forces. Thus, this point is proof that your government is trying to deceive the Croatian public to deal with the alleged war threat, and only for reasons not to deal with the fall of standards, detained Minister Horvat and not detained Vice President Milosevic. Croatia, which has passed the Calvary of War itself, needs to be solid with the sufferings of the Ukrainian people and to receive refugees from Ukraine, but no military activity should be done. Involvement in the war conflict through the sending of weapons is adventurous and harmful to Croatia. Since today's debate, no one in Ukraine will be better, the debate on this subject is barren and is not in Croatian interest. But let us look at the facts, see how individual countries protect their national interests and how they treat this conflict. U.S. President Biden told Russia in the publication of sanctions, we are doing so because it is in our own interest. And indeed, the United States has not imposed sanctions on neither oil nor gas for the simple reason that this would affect the price of gasoline for US citizens because Americans cannot bear the fact that their gasoline is one dollar, otherwise in Croatia it is almost two dollars. I mean, the American president takes care of the interests of the Americans. Also on Sunday, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced a series of measures to ensure Germany's energy independence, but also the German military's combative endowment, and to that end a 100 billion-euro fund was set up to make the German army efficient and operational. However, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban decided not to allow the transport of military assistance to Ukraine by explaining that Hungary is taking care of the interests of the Hungarian minority in Ukraine, and that Hungary is neutral in this conflict. In all these countries, citizens feel at their standard, at the price of gasoline, on the availability of health services, on demographic measures that their governments run a policy of protection of national interests and work for their citizens. Government measures to support Croatian citizens and the economy that Plenkovic mentioned may be considered a joke, not measures. These are not measures because the decline of citizens' standards amidst energy prices is dramatic, as well as a threat to the Croatian economy. The Prime Minister and representatives of the ruling majority act as if the Croatian state should play some active role in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, which is absolutely grotesque, absurd and unserious. But the motive for this theatre dramaticism lies in the fact that through the story of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, Plenkovic's minister, together with Pupovac, stole money from the budget, that the Minister of Economy and Energy Ćoric is directly accused of abuse of his position and that of his closest associate, that his deputy Prime Minister Milosevic and Minister Aladrovic are under investigation, that the DORH is evidenced under political influence, so to arrest Darko Horvat, not to arrest his deputy prime minister, Milosevic, is absurd. The government should propose extraordinary agenda points such as this one today, but in terms of corruption, the decline of Croatian citizens' standards, in terms of health, agriculture and education. Mr Plenkovic, the only thing you do is deceive the public through corrupt media, and talk about everything and everything so that they don't just talk about what's crucial to Croatian citizens. You're gonna get that back on your head real quick. You have no right not to react to the key problems of the Croatian state and you are obliged as Biden, Scholz or Orban to lead a policy that protects the interests of your citizens. What you do is against the interests of Croatian citizens. You think you can hide personal involvement in corruption through media control, as in the case of your personal friend, attorney Daniel Klobuch and CERRP. I'll finish with a German proverb. God's mills grind slowly, but surely they grind and as much as you think the rule of law will not be established in Croatia I assure you that the time of equality will come in Croatia before the law and the culture of responsibility and no one will be above the law, neither you nor Pupovac nor Jandrokovic. And to those of you who act offended because someone dares to talk about your corruption, I'm telling you that the truth will win, and stealing your own people is not patriotism, but an act of betrayal and sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94590	We have two replicas, the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic, please. Yeah, now you're surprised there are replicas to each other, so you didn't exactly come to the assembly yesterday, or maybe you think you did. Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94591	Dear Vice President, I would still ask you to respectfully treat the parliamentary representative and do not say that she thinks she came to HS yesterday. As for your exposure, how dangerous it is to have a corrupt...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94592	I'm sorry, I'm, I'm speaking because again I see that the Rules of Procedure are not known, abuse is often the Rules of Procedure, and I can see that you don't know the Rules of Procedure at all, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94593	Mr. Chairman, today there are no individual debates, the exception is exclusively a parliamentary representative who doesn't have a club. Since there are no individual discussions of the other parliamentary deputies, there is no replicas to be presented on behalf of the club, of course it is a surprise that my debate may be a replica and it suits me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94595	Okay. How dangerous and harmful and safe to have a corrupt government is best seen at a time of this kind of war threat on our common European soil. Instead of being able to fully commit ourselves to solidarity with the Ukrainian people and care for our own space in terms of military capacity, to protect ourselves in the possibility of a future attack, we are forced here to deal with the daily affairs of this government. So we're waiting for ministers who are arresting, and then when it happens, which is a security threat, we're told that this topic shouldn't even be on the agenda, so I'm asking you, who's responsible for what's on the agenda? We in opposition who ask that question or those who have put it [[Employee: Honored representative Vidović Kristo.]] Ministers to lead our... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94596	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94597	When we talk about responsibility for all the problems in Croatia today, then it is responsibility on political self-called elites, which is not only HDZ, it is HDZ, SDP and theirs, as we say stickers, partners, who are also involved in their interest groups and the corruption network. As for the opposition, I must also point out with regret that the lack of resistance to Croatia's crucial problems today in Croatia, I have made it clear and I will repeat that the Croatian state should and must be solidarity with the sufferings of the Ukrainian people and accept refugees and this topic is absolutely clear. However, our fight against all of us who are not part of your HZD gentlemen, SDP, etc., corruption structures must be clearer in the context of fighting for the right of Croatian citizens to a state where everyone is equal to the law!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94598	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94599	And I was gonna say something, but it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94600	Thank you very much. Since there are no questions, there is no answer. Thank you very much. .../ And are you aware of what you said that I don't have... /... Ma'am. Kristo, you can't communicate with me. You can't communicate with me. [[Intruder: But can you communicate with me like that?]] Incomprehensible... for a moment before your behavior, not for you to tell me that I can't act like one. [[Intruder: You should...]] You can't communicate with me, please. Look at your Rules of Procedure, you can't communicate with me like that. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Ma'am. [[Intruder: See yourself also Rules of Procedure and you cannot communicate with me like that.]] Christo, I'm warning you about that. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the respected representative Gordan Grlic Radman, the respected foreign minister, Goran Grlic Radman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd actually start with this very well-respected Mr. Zekanovic, but first of all, hello to you, honourable MPs, Mrs. Zekanovic. MPs, Mr. Representatives. But I might have started, you know, German proverbs, but I think Mr. Zekanovic said and ended this, and then I would say the same thing, the German proverb "Ende gut alles gut." I think it's important that we adopted this Declaration on Ukraine earlier, and this is very important that just as the most legislative body that reflects and represents the interests of the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, that he adopted the Declaration and that, behold, the President of the Croatian Government said, he spoke about the Ukrainian crisis, related to the aggression of Russia, Putin to sovereignty and territorial integrity within the international recognised borders of Ukraine. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic told us today that by an unprecedented act in which Russia attacked the sovereign state itself, the foundations on which today's Europe rests, based on peace, democracy and freedom and law. The international law has been violated, all the principles we have defined have been violated, the objectives, principles, the UN Charter, 193 UN member states are UN members, the UN's command is forbidden war, and it is the country itself that is a member of the Security Council that violates peace and violates international law by aggression, an invasion of nothing caused in Ukrainian territories. We are witnessing certainly terrible images of murdered civilians, destroyed buildings, institutions, cities that reminded us of the time of the Homeland War and therefore no one like Croatia can understand Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, the fight for freedom, the fight for peace, the right, because secret happiness is freedom, and secret freedom is courage, and it is the Ukrainian people who now show exceptional courage and have strong Croatian support. Just now, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said in his speech, but he did the most, when he visited, first as rapporteur for Russia, the one as a representative of the EU Parliament and later as prime minister, and I was also accompanied by him on the Crimean Platform on August 23rd, and the second time on December 8th and 9th in Kiev where there were 30 of our companies, there were several ministers, there were about 300 interested businessmen. Of course, at that moment, we have made every effort within the EU, within NATO, to discuss and, as Commissioner Oreshkovic said, and to discuss war, not only in peace. We made efforts, and I was also in Moscow, that's true, but one of the many EU ministers, I was 17 January, behind me was a German minister, and then 10 ministers of Italy, Greece, etc., where we promoted descalation, invested diplomatic efforts to calm tensions, and to stop unexpected ones, and in fact, there was aggression, there was an invasion, and we couldn't really imagine them just in movies from World War II except for our Homeland War which was once again in this limited space, but this was one direct attack of one country on another modern country, its population, its population, its cities and its institutions and its democratically elected government. And it is true here that so much is said affirmatively, and in this direction I am extremely pleased and honored to have one such understanding from you respected MPs that we know which side we are on, on the side of democracy, and we are not on the side of autocracy because, of course, we should always separate the peoples from the authorities, the regime that speaks, works and acts on behalf of the people, so between the regimes that do and the people in whose name is spoken there is no sign of equality. Of course, there was a lot of talk here about what the government itself is doing. I think we've prepared extremely well and prepared in time. On Saturday and Sunday, we had already made proposals for an extraordinary cabinet session, we reacted quickly and reflectedly to the situation and had an extraordinary session where we made important decisions that the Prime Minister reported, so our reflection of the reflections on Croatia, Croatia is ready, energy independent. It is a great success of the Croatian government to ensure energy independence and yesterday our bilateral visit to Oslo has just been praised, the LNG terminal on the island of Krk because it is not only Croatian but European project. We are precisely Croatia's LNG project provides capacity of 2.6 billion cubic metres, which meets the needs of households in the Republic of Croatia and Croatian business and economic operators. Of course, it is also a success within the Three Seas Initiative, which is currently in favour of 12 countries for energy diversification, digitisation and strengthening of transport infrastructure, and Croatia is one of the founders of the Three Seas Initiative. So, Croatia, when it comes to social stability, is safe, when it comes to gas and energy supply, it is safe and what the Prime Minister said, so we as a state can be sure, we as a responsible government are working towards representing Croatia in the international community and everything we do in the interests of Croatians and Croatian citizens. I would just point out another one, which was also mentioned by the prime minister, a group also established by the government's decision, which concerns the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which is the Permanent Group for the application and monitoring of the implementation of international, international measures and restrictions, the implementation of international restrictive measures, and is now a colleague of State Secretary Frano Matušić at the head of the inter-minor permanent group. There were, of course, a lot of the same words of some MPs who spoke also perhaps about the weakness of the EU, which I would not say exactly that this is so, of course, the world is not ideal, the international order is not ideal, but Croatia's membership in the EU, Croatia's membership and NATO alliance ensures its security because it should be taken into account the fact that part of Ukraine is the goal, the goal is unity, the unity of European countries, the unity of NATO alliances, and here we have shown resilience and there is an invisible unity when it comes to the preservation of this acquired international legal order. So he's ruling in these 5 years, this 6th year. does exactly the best in the interest of Croatian citizens in the Croatian people. I reject any other one of these, other one of these narratives that were here, which are beyond the context of this topic that has been discussed here today and we are discussing, which is the situation of the Prime Minister's report on the situation on Ukraine. I am grateful to MPs who are also a question of the domino effect or the impact of this crisis, in fact, of course, aggression that can, which is precedent, but which can stop, become truly and perhaps at some point become a rule. We don't know how the situation is going to develop, but we don't want it to develop like that, there's a lot of effort going on. We have the same ministerial NATO conference Friday, and also the afternoon second Foreign Affairs Council to discuss the next wave of economic sanctions. economic sanctions. When someone mentioned Belarus, of course, that Belarus is also covered by sanctions on the Council, but we will discuss the direction in which these sanctions will go the next wave and towards Belarus because it is white that Belarus is also the same autocratic regime and that in fact this aggression, part of aggression moves also from the territory of Belarus. As far as I'm concerned, thank you very much for your commendation for Croatian diplomacy. My colleague, Anica Djamic, I'm also in touch with her every day. She's safe. Of course she stayed until the last day, and the last one is actually the ambassador leaving Kiev, because we can't expose the ambassador to the execution. But the ambassador stays in Ukraine. Therefore, in another city where they will present the Republic of Croatia but Ukraine. So Ambassador Djamić is accredited to Ukraine, so she stays in Ukraine and we maintain communication with her, she will have all of our help and what needs to be done, assistance. There's something else in Ukraine, 13 I mean citizens we care about, and we're in communication with them. And we do ways of repatriating them, or evacuating them. We also have 10 Croatian citizens who want to stay in Ukraine. They're also in mixed marriages, but of course we're here, we're available to them both consular services and the ambassador herself. As far as the same refugees are concerned, we follow that, of course, we are glad and thank you for showing that very feeling of hospitality. The Ukrainians are Slavic people, we have many similarities. Ukraine loves Croatia, Croatia loves Ukraine so that what my colleague Vidović Kristo said was this topic, a debate if it were not in the interest, that it was barren I would not say it. If it may be such an impression, perhaps to her, but according to the reaction of the ambassadors, according to the irritability of the Ukrainian people who were here, judging by the reactions of others who were following, I have just received the same message from the Moldovan ambassador from Budapest who was also the foreign minister and who listens, I do not know how they listen but are heard, so the activities of the Croatian government are heard, our moves are being heard, we are helping Ukraine, of course, and we are sending messages and Moldova, we are specifically encouraging their people. I've been to Moldova recently, too. Of course Transnistria-Conflict has been a frozen conflict since 1991. There's a Russian army there, and of course, that's the same question that needs to be solved and that part needs to be returned to the sovereignty of Lucius. Also and Abkhazia and Ossetia in Georgia. [[Intruder Reiner: Please ladies can come out if you want to chat, please!]] Of course we are not satisfied with the reaction of neighbouring Serbia. As far as the Croatian army is concerned, there is no need for you to know that the Croatian army has defended the Croatian home, but the Croatian army is no longer as alone as it used to be. Therefore, every attack on a NATO member country is binding on all member states. Croatia, therefore, is not at risk. Of course it's true, you can't sit on two chairs, it's very uncomfortable. The wolf must choose the right side. He can't keep his own citizens as hostages, because judging by where they're going, their demographic image is very bad, so they're heading west. Therefore, we have a great political responsibility in this situation. The excuse that Serbia is a military neutral country is actually not sustainable, because there are more neutral countries in Europe that have a centuries-old tradition, which are like real neutral countries that have changed their policies of neutrality through the decay of the bipolar system. So a new right of neutrality makes the difference between the victim and the aggressor. So it used to be so that the neutral country was neutral in the conflict and did not enter who was the victim, who was the aggressor. But it's changed. It can't be neutral, so if you know who the aggressor is and who the victim is. Every country should be on the side of the innocent, on the side of what it was said by a gentleman representative on the side who was shot, who suffered, who was the victim. The Western Balkans has always been a topic that I have warned on councils as a possible spillover of conflicts and asked ministers, from the council, from the High Representative to more attention and from a higher level of activity in the Western Balkan countries. Otherwise, they will become a place where geostrategic competition will take place, and it is happening right now with the influence of Russia as well as economic, economic China and, of course, in BiH. When it comes to BiH, of course, there is unconditional support and support that is not only in words but I think that it is also visible and that the government's support as never before is visible. All that time that has passed behind us, of course, we can talk about missed times, and what we are doing in the last 5 and 6 years, just now, BiH has become a country of understanding, a country they understand, its multinationality, three constituent peoples, equal peoples, but various governments have not shown enough activity before, however, even support for elected representatives who were representatives but of the peoples, the Croatian people, but the paradox was that they were not elected by the votes of the Croatian people. Therefore, I want to change and we are actively working on this, we support negotiators who come and the US administrations of the EU, we point to this actively, and Croatia is an absolutely large, honest advocate of BiH, a country with three constituent equal peoples and I hope that there will be a solution that will satisfy all three peoples, a change of electoral law that will eliminate all forms of discrimination and inequality in the electoral process and ensure constitutionality and political legitimate representation in bodies. BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94602	We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94603	Given the anemicity of our foreign policy, I really do believe that you in Russia have done nothing and that it does not matter whether you were there or not. But when we talk about this same anemicity, it doesn't matter whether you were or weren't and what you did about us neighbouring BiH countries. One of the key arguments Dodik can use in his attempt to emancipate, the complete emancipation of Republika Srpska is precisely that the Dayton Agreement is not respected. So there is no guarantee of equality between all three constituent peoples. In that sense, do you think that Croatia shares responsibility for instability within BiH because it has not taken advantage of all the legal opportunities it has at its disposal mainly when we talk about the conclusions of the European Council, but also today here because of the fact that very promising elections in BiH despite the fact that there has been no change in the electoral law and at the expense of the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94604	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94605	I respect what you said, uh, anemia means bloodlessness, but I also respect that you don't know anything about BiH, that you have no idea about Council conclusions and are just the Council conclusions for the first time if you've read them, and you probably haven't. Since you're an intellectual, you should devote yourself to that and see how, what the conclusions say. So they mention the institutional character and mechanisms of the Dayton-Paris Agreement, which implies the constitutionality and equality of the people, the three peoples, mentions the European Court of Human Rights and the implementation of all decisions of the Constitutional Court, and therefore the Ljubic case. Therefore, devote a little bit better and more content, and I was at it, and then I can also tell you that there was a debate and a struggle over these articles to get into those very conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94606	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Selak Rasdic. What's he hurt about?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94607	Article 238, the moment the question doesn't answer you, you attack, you attack the talker and tell him there's no idea. How much you have the idea of what is necessary and necessary to save the political situation in which the Croats from BiH are brought best shows the continuity of your policy which has led to nothing, but nothing at all. The situation remained unchanged. So you've shown in practice how many really concepts you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94608	It was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Uh, my colleague Bulj has the next line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94609	Dear Ministers not so long ago and more were with your colleague Lavrov where you praised relations regardless of the situation with Ukraine and Russia, where you also invited their President Putin. I don't know if you've changed your mind, but I can agree with my colleague here. As far as BiH and our part of the Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia are concerned, you have absolutely done nothing. Your goal was to amend the electoral law and if the law does not change, however, the election year has not changed. The Croats have become unequal. The question of the survival of Croats in BiH, and the Constitution is our duty to care for our people as well as for the constituent people in BiH. You have not fulfilled this promise and you need to tell the Croats in BiH, you have not fulfilled it The Croats are left to themselves. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94610	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94611	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj, you speak in general, I mean don't follow the processes and don't actually combine everything, everything, all the work or the hard work of the working governments, and if you were a little deeper into that, in that process that you couldn't better look at this whole pawnage and how we're doing. And that will best be said to you by the Croats in BiH. As for this one that I was in Moscow, but you, where are you in the paper, read on behalf of whom I can call Putin. So it's not true that I called Putin, I had a press release, there were journalists there ask the press what I said. Therefore, words can be manipulated, I did not invite anyone. So I didn't invite anyone, nor can I call on behalf of whom, but I can call the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94612	Thank you. My colleague Bulj has done some damage to his rules of procedure. Are you sure you want to do this? Is that what you want? ... No, no, I'm only asking you because if it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm afraid there's going to be a third warning, so I'm asking you if it's safe, but go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Of course I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94613	You'll follow the rules of procedure, of course. The minister has injured the officer. 238, where he insults a representative who speaks falsely. I was familiar with Lavrov's colleague, you praised him, you praised him for good relations with Croatia, regardless of conflicts with Ukraine, you invite him still and I don't know if you've changed your mind about Putin and Lavrov, you need to prove it and the nation now at this point. However, I said the fact, but the fact is about the Croats in BiH you left them alone did not keep your promise. Election law has not been amended, Croats have been left alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94614	Thank you very much. Telling the truth or not the truth we all know well is absolutely nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I need to lay the foundation for you. In 240th century, 2nd century, give notice by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear Representative Marijan Pavliček has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94615	Dear Minister, here you are as a longtime diplomat, you know that, and you said it yourself earlier to speak in peace, but that there must be a conversation in the war. We with neighbouring Serbia, thank God we are not at war, but we are not in God's sight, so I wonder if you have any contact with Serbian diplomacy with Serbian Foreign Minister lately? Whether there are any state-level contacts between the two countries, given that elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are held for a month and three days, where the Croats will obviously be suspended again, will not be able to secure their mandate in the National Assembly because the mandates there are not secured despite the fact that it is still in 2004. A signed bilateral agreement between Croatia and the then state of Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of national minorities, where in the article. The 9th must be protected by national minorities. We respected our share, the Serbs did not share their share, what is the situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94616	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94617	Thank you very much for that question. We strongly, of course, always advocate and we are exactly the ones who offer hands and want to talk, but if one country doesn't want to talk, you can't force it. However, there are other mechanisms that are the mechanisms for their membership in the EU and future status. I made it clear to them that their Prime Minister at the Intergovernmental Conference this year in Brussels that chapter 23, 24 means fundamental rights when it comes to missing persons when it comes to protecting minorities and all those rights that are exclusively related to the Homeland War legacy that we will not, of course, support them, that they do not count on, glorifying war criminals etc. It is therefore the only way to warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94618	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94619	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister. With deep respect and respect for all the tragedy that the Ukrainian people are experiencing with aggression and war, let me point out that around 2000 members of the Ukrainian national minority live in the area of the Republic of Ukraine, that the Russian and Ukrainian alliance was founded in 1968. in Vukovar, that according to data from defence associations from the Homeland War only in the city of Vukovar and defences, both Vukovar and the Republic of Croatia gave their lives to 78 Ukrainians and members of the Ukrainian national minority, and that despite some officials from the Vukovar area, they gave certain different statements concerning Ukraine, Ukraine's Vodotoranje brightens the symbols of Ukraine and already families in Vukovar gave their homes to families who came from Ukraine and I believe that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94620	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94621	Thank you very much. Here you are, in fact, as affirmatively speaking about it, and of course we know about the fact of 2000 Ukrainians who are very well integrated into Croatian society, but if you remember the same thing then we didn't even know when that Croatian sailor disappeared on September 26, two years ago, he was the truth captain on one ship, we searched hard for him and prayed and aircraft of various airlines that searched etc. We didn't even know that he was Ukrainian, and he was married to our Croat from around Zadar. Of course it's absolutely important with this water tower, but here thanks to the City of Zagreb they painted the same Fontans with flags of Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94622	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. We condemned the attack on Ukraine it's nice to see you today and hear in this assembly, but what I want once again pointed out is actually your and your employees participating in responding to this Ukrainian crisis. I'm familiar with what the Foreign Ministry does to the people who are ours in Ukraine, and they're going back to their homeland and those who are still left, so here's my pleasure to all of you who are actually doing it. We as a health system have prepared, prepared and hospitalized for the possible acceptance of all those who need medical care, and have been wounded by Ukraine or for some other reasons are returning and despite the fact that health care professionals are difficult because of the crown and we are really struggling with this challenge we will respond with heart and soul because it is for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94624	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94625	Thank you very much. Here's our actual day-to-day job, me too, and while there was a debate in the assembly I always get you know and various messages, I have someone here you can help ministers etc. We were, for example, our three athletes were stationed somewhere on a border of Ukrainian-Hungarian, there just playing, there they were actually, the police are very strict, they're letting only freight vehicles and general vehicles, but not pedestrians and joint interventions and pawning and Ukrainian ambassadors that we solved, and then on the other hand the big column was towards the Polish border, at a Polish-Ukrainian crossing and our journalists, now I wouldn't want this so much, that's our job you know, we managed to still get our journalists across, to get into Poland and so on. It's, but it's quiet work, it's a discreet work, you can't see it, it's understood, it's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94626	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94627	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, through cooperation in the interparliamentary group of friendships with the Republic of Georgia, I have had the honour of meeting the Ambassador, his Excellency, Mr Gogsadze, and here, Georgia also has a very long land border with the Soviet Union and Russia. We know ourselves that they are trying to become a member state of the NATO Pact, so please introduce us and the public to a little bit where we are currently in a state of relations with the Republic of Georgia and whether there is any concrete potential threat of war conflict being overrun on their territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94628	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94629	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Of course, there is one format of Eastern Partnership, but in this Eastern Partnership, where, which includes 6 countries, not all 6 countries are at the same level and development, but would say preparedness to some membership. That's where I would really single out Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. Georgia is very interested, of course, in NATO membership, but, of course, that one sensitivity that this with Russia actually slows down this whole procedure, but certainly NATO would not have, we wouldn't mind if Georgia were part of our alliance, Ukraine and any other country, Moldova, but here we have to be very careful now in view of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94630	Honorable representative Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I remember your hearing with the Committee on Foreign Policy when the Prime Minister introduced you as a candidate for the minister you said you knew the system well, you know how many people there are both professional and patriot. I also remember the criticism of the account, and today we hear them at the expense of Croatian diplomacy that it is like this, that we don't need it, we don't need ambassadors, Croatian diplomacy doesn't achieve anything, etc., but it seems to me that colleague Anica Djamic has denied those critics. Of course, any service can also be perfected and improved, but it has in its work denied this stereotype that Croatian diplomacy is not right, that there are some people who simply shouldn't get the trust of our citizens and I think that we still need another prominent fact of the professionalism and patriotism of our diplomats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94632	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94633	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier. Of course, we are resilient and we are used to criticism, and in fact they encourage us even more to be even better. We know ourselves, so we work consciously and consciously, we are not ideal, but we defend the interests of Croatian peoples and Croatian states in every place. And maybe he'd come back, and now it occurred to me that Mr. Bulj was talking about the calls, and that, just yesterday, I transferred Mr. Cappelly's letter to the president of the Foreign Political Committee, also to a colleague in the Norwegian Parliament, so that's what this is about. If you're calling someone, you're calling someone for some particular reason, you can't call on behalf of someone who's even taller than you if you don't have a specific reference or any message, so I can only call my colleague in a ministry, a minister or a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94634	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, I support what you said about Vukic sitting on two chairs, but it is not only Vukic but also Dragan Covic who refused to condemn Dodik's comments about the armed gang defending Kiev, so two questions. Covic was in consultations with the Prime Minister the other day, was he sitting on ears or chairs, and if he was sitting on chairs for how many? And second question, do you still consider Milorad Dodik a partner in achieving the interest of Croats in BiH and if you are sitting on how many chairs are you sitting on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94636	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94637	Thank you Mr. Glavasevic for the team, this handsome rhetorical combination of questions. Look out, BiH is an internationally recognised country, so its complexity stems from the very fact that it was established after the agreement or that it is actually the result of a halting war. BiH should be seen under these conditions. It is unfortunately then divided into, to two entities. I think BiH has never looked like that, but it is a good fact, it is internationally recognised, one state, two entities and three constituent nations that should be equal and the Croatian people are now not equal. We support down there means everything that legitimate representatives of Croatian people support, everyone down there is both Mr. Dodik and Mr. Jaferovic, all of them are a fact, so we don't interfere, you know, in BiH politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94638	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94639	Thank you. Dear Ministers, to begin to stress again this support for the Ukrainian people, support for Ukraine's President Zelenski whose party has been admitted two days ago to the European Union of Liberal Parties to support their path to the EU and to strengthen the sanctions of this regime. In that name, one question. Since there are some doubts about removing Russia completely from the SWIFT system, we know that there have been stories that as many banks as possible will actually be removed from the SWIFT system. However, information keeps emerging that not all banks have been removed, that some have remained, so there is a way of communication and financial transfers. So what do you know about whether the whole of Russia, all the Russian banks, is that what to say or tossed out of the international financial control system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94640	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94641	Thank you very much, Reverend Puljak. Here we have set up on the Foreign Affairs Council on 27 February a third wave of sanctions, i.e. restrictive measures. Among other things, of course, there is the same exclusion of seven Russian banks from the SWIFT financial transaction network. But since this is a very complex issue in progress, here are now intense debates in order to, of course, achieve some finalisation in order to adopt the proposals. There are various banks on the list and on the lower bodies of Coreper, where it is a committee of permanent representatives, they are discussing it. So we will soon know which banks are concerned and how far these restrictive measures have gone, or sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94642	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94643	Thank you. Since you are one of the last officials who invited Putin to come to Croatia somewhere 17.1. if I am right in a position to be very quickly changed. Here it's been two months, now you're talking about the autocratic regime. If you could comment on that for me. You have singled out Ukraine in the context of EU accession, meaning European integration as an advanced country which would mean having a position that can be defended in these European integrations. I mean, the fact is that Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world and that it is in the perception index much more than Croatia. Well, in that sense, you should also explain a little bit what you were actually thinking, because it's a fact unrelated maybe to this present situation. But surely Ukraine has other problems that relate to the very corrupt political practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94644	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94645	First of all, I went as Minister of a Member State and we talked about it on our councils so that I would also invest political efforts in the dissection, and then in some ways it was already, these tensions were already visible. They've actually been visible for a long time, but here they are somewhere almost in the zenith. In a few days, many ministers visited Moscow. I told you that on the 18th, she was my German colleague. But again I'd like to tell you, I think time passes, you keep saying I've called Putin. I don't know where you heard that, where you saw it. I had a press conference about it. I never spoke. In the end there were journalists, TV journalists who filmed it, so please tell me, prove it. So no one told me that, how can I call Putin, so he's not my associate. So I can call him on behalf of the president, the president didn't invite him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94646	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94647	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, here we now witness from hour to hour every brutal aggression in Ukraine and in this struggle between David and Goliath as the prime minister himself said this morning Croatia has shown and expressed its commitment and support to Ukraine. But what is most important is the preservation of peace and stability between the region, and in this sense our eyes are against the future of our neighbouring countries, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then Montenegro and Kosovo, and there is indeed a need to do everything and diplomatic and political activities in order for neighbouring countries to actually choose our own path without danger to the region. And there is really a need for both sobriety and prudence at every step, but also a lot of knowledge and good knowledge of opportunities and the same classification on the right historical side. And judging by everything so far The Croatian government, the prime minister and Croatian diplomacy do so regardless of the various calls. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94648	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94649	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bedekovic. Of course, but I don't have as much time as you might say. Of course Putin is a regime, so his regime we see that large demonstrations and protests in many cities are also in Russia and we need to see when Mrs Peović is here, when we talk about relations means that Croatia – Russia we have 16 Croatian companies in Russia. They have certain interests. There we had the same business forum that brings together the interests of our people who represent, they have, they represent themselves there through Croatian products. It should be the same, of course, in mind. I hope that this regime will be autocraticly, that Russia in the democratic elections will happen that we will have a new face of Russia as we had it at the beginning after the bipolar system collapsed. That's what I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94650	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94651	Respect, thank you. Dear Ministers, I would like to ask you nicely when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will respond to the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign Policy, i.e. An analysis of the impact of war in Ukraine on the economy of the Republic of Croatia has been requested, of course, on the supply of food and energy and on the Forten group, so I ask you nicely when this response will arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94652	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94653	Thank you very much, Reverend Raukar. I wasn't aware of that question. I don't know when he was sent. I remember what you said, I'm obliged to question it, and that's the answer you'll get. We never MVEP, it's done by honest people professionals, professionals and never a single question has been answered, therefore surely we will answer if there is a question of representation or any way you have referred that question. I really need to see my colleagues and colleagues where we've answered something, but you obviously don't get any answers, so here I am obliging you to get the answer you asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94654	The Honorable representative, Cappelly, has raised a breach of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94655	I'm risking notice 238, but to be true, and that's the deal I made with all the board members and Secretary of State Matosic that it will be next week so we somehow planned to collect all the data and it will be invited to the board next week. Don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94656	Thank you very much and it was a replica I must give a warning even though one was well explained. The esteemed representative Bencic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94657	Thank you. Dear Minister. First, I would like to thank Mr. Cappelly for his reply. Dear Ministers, I would like to ask you, so these days we are witnessing some new initiatives and the possibility of actually spreading candidate status to the countries of the Western Balkans, so I am saying there are such initiatives but also in Ukraine itself. So, the Green-Left bloc Club certainly believes that Europe is actually a peace project and that in this sense it is important for all the Western Balkan countries and for Ukraine to get that status, but also that this status is then treated as a serious status and that it leads to real inclusion. I am interested in how, in the context of ensuring peace and lasting peace in the Balkans and in the context of these risks that we have identified today, you will stand within the EU to gain candidate status for all former Yugoslavia's member states plus Albania? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94658	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94659	Thank you very much. Known in the history of integration of enlargement, in fact, before I would say EU enlargement, of course, was always the cornerstone of the legal basis, but the policy of the fast road, so in some ways puts that legal basis aside. When you look at how hard Croatia has worked and how hard we have worked to meet all of the goals that we have been asked for, then they have required us to focus on meeting all of those criteria and we were still the first country precisely because of the entry you know Bulgaria and Romania before, the first state that has received even the criteria. So I think now, according to this new methodology that the French have proposed through clusters, there can be even faster procedures to obtain candidate status.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94660	Thank you. Representative Bencic has done some damage to the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94661	I just wanted there to be no confusion. I was talking about gaining candidate status, not gaining EU membership status in terms of... but really talking about candidate status.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94662	All right, I'm afraid I have to give you a heads-up because that's what the rules are like. The Republic has a respected representative, Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94663	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm not going to ask you about Lavrov, and everybody's already asked that, I'm going to have a question that's a little easier, but something that we need to be interested in, and I think what we need to get an answer to is next. At this point in Russia, or to say in particular in Moscow and in the wider area, there are many of our citizens who have both the need or the desire or have business people, there are athletes who want to leave the country, I want to know how the ministry participates in all of this, how many questions are asked, and are they allowed in view of flights that are possible or not possible that they really leave Russia? For their various reasons, they don't want to be there, so they don't want to go so I don't say those who are both mixed marriages and married, but someone who's been doing business wants to go, someone who's like a athlete working somewhere and says I won't play anymore, and I won't be there anymore because I won't be able to do that job after all the decisions. Who they are, so I'm curious about what you're doing in this business. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94664	The Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94665	Thank you very much. Although air traffic bans are actually in place, so in the EU Member States directly for Russian airlines, there are still various forms of land-based travel as long as it is, of course, a combination of other airports, airports such as Istanbul and so on, they are not closed. But we have an embassy in Moscow there is an EU delegation, the head of the EU delegation, so there are all the embassies of EU member states. It's going to be the same as one of our topics that we're going to establish further, you know, it's abandoned that classical doctrine if you're with a country in some conflict you're pulling an ambassador. In fact, he's our only real source of information relevant to us, so as long as we don't agree at the EU level our embassy is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94666	Thank you very much, Minister. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it, of course, when the conditions come to pass. We now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019. The law on the implementation of cybersecurity certification, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 236 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 236 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society Bernard Gršić. Here you go, Bernd. Excuse me, Bernard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94669	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Respected parliamentary deputies and MPs, at the very beginning a few introductory words about this law. So the EU has taken a number of measures to regulate relations in cyberspace, increasing resilience and strengthening its cybersecurity. Since the first EU Cybersecurity Strategy adopted in 2013 setting strategic objectives...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94670	Please, please be nice like this who doesn't care about this point, please go outside, wait, talk, take wherever you want, but don't interfere with the speaker. Not a representative of the motionor or any later speaker. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94671	Thank you very much. So, from the first EU Cybersecurity Strategy adopted in 2013, which sets out the strategic objectives and concrete measures for achieving resilience and reducing cybercrime, the development of cyber defence policy and the capacity for cyber defence, the development of industrial and technological resources and the establishment of a harmonised international cybercrime policy for the EU until the proposal of the newest of 2020, with further emphasis on 3 areas. Resistance, technological sovereignty and leadership, then building operational capacity to prevent, deter and retaliate, and develop a global and open cyberspace. It is constantly stressing the need to regulate the digital transformation of society in a way that makes man at the heart of the event, i.e. the subject and in cyberspace, showing the importance of security parameters for building trust in these processes. In order to increase trust and security in the Union's single digital market, and given the rapid spread of connected devices, Internet of things or Internet things, it was necessary to establish a framework for the safety certification of products, services and the process of information communication technology, or all objects of cyberspace. Cyber security certification becomes particularly important in view of the increasing use of cybernetic technologies for purposes that require a high degree of reliability and security, and in an increasing number of sectors, a significant increase in dependence on information communication technologies, or their products, services and processes, particularly in transport, in life and health maintenance systems, industry and the achievement of human interests and rights. The EU Network and Information System Security Directive, so-called The EU NIS Directive transposed the Cybersecurity Act of operators of key services and digital service providers of 2018 regulated the classification of services or cyberspace facilities of their importance, key and digital services and established a system of resilience, protection, reporting and intervention. Specific to the most important sectors. The following regulation on the EU NIS Directive and the regulation on the EU Cyber security Agency ENISA and on cybersecurity certification in the field of communication and information technology 2019/881 of 17 April 2019 has completed the second phase of the regulation of cyberspace from the point of view of the object of the space. The ENISA Regulation has given it a more active and important role to play in achieving the Union’s cyberresistance and has become the managing body of the Agency’s network, Member States dealing with cybersecurity in a similar way. The main regulator at EU level is the European Commission, which, with the operational assistance of ENISA and the advisory European cybersecurity certification group, ensures the implementation of the provisions of both of these laws and in accordance with the strategies and plans. The basic issues that need to be regulated by this law, or one of the objectives that is meant to be achieved through a cybersecurity certification system, is to strengthen the EU's single digital market so that it becomes a more significant factor on the global stage and becomes more resistant to the destructive actions of competitive global economies. This also facilitates the achievement of one of the Union's strategic objectives, digital sovereignty or the possibility of free and independent decision-making on all matters related to cyberspace. Consequently, those EU Member States have assumed the obligation to harmonise their rules of action in this area and to build or adapt the national cybersecurity certification system jointly. All national components are expected to become components at national level of a well-linked and resilient European cyber security certification system in due time. In order to do so, it was necessary to regulate the principles and rules of building such systems as Regulation 2019/881 has tried and done, and Member States are expected to implement them. The roles of various bodies, their legal status and means of association have been defined in order to achieve the uniformity of components at Union level and ultimately avoid harmful fragmentation of practices and procedures. Cyber security certification confirms that information communication technologies or their products, services and processes have been evaluated in accordance with European cybersecurity certification schemes and that compliance with security requirements for the protection of availability, originality, integrity and confidentiality of stored, transmitted or processed data, functions or services offered with such products, services and processes or which can be accessed during their life cycle. On the basis of certain European cybersecurity certification schemes, cybersecurity certification is carried out which is the process of issuing European cybersecurity certificates or a declaration of conformity for manufacturers or information and communication technology providers, their products and services in order to achieve a high common level of cyber security across the EU for certain products, services and processes. The implementation of this law is attended by various European and national bodies, some of which are newly formed, and others are given new tasks. From the national authorities, the Croatian accreditation agency has received an additional area of cybersecurity in which it issue accreditations to conformity assessment bodies, which, in turn, issue certificates to manufacturers and providers for their products, services and processes while the Information System Security Office has received regulatory and supervisory tasks to ensure that all interested parties have legal protection harmonised throughout the EU. Certificate issuers, conformity assessment bodies shall be legal entities established in one of the EU Member States in which they are registered for quality control activities and tests and from an accreditation agency, and those countries shall be accredited for their work in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. The first step at the national Croatian level is to establish a framework, i.e. a structure that can be imported into the common Union, and which can implement programmes in the intended manner primarily with the aim of building a domestic market consistent with others in the Digital Single Market and implement its regulation in accordance with Union principles, tailored to domestic circumstances and legal practice. General quality control operations, i.e. to check the achievement of a standard resulting in some testimony, atest or certificate, account for about 10% of the digital market with a growth trend of proportionally highlighted care for the safety and complexity of new technologies. Objectively for the Croatian digital economy, this diversification is welcome, and growth in this niche is expected with minimal interventions and incentives, as it will allow domestic digital entrepreneurs to reach the level of business and professional equal to the best in the EU in a very short time. Discussing the predominant evaluations that say that in the digital economy, new EU members, or those in Central and Eastern Europe, have been lagging behind for three to four years, and that the average does not reduce the establishment of cybersecurity certification systems promise to erase such a difference at least in that niche. In conclusion, the draft law provides for a national cybersecurity certification body, which is the Information System Security Office, an accreditation body for the assessment of compliance by a national agency, an accreditation agency and an application to the Commission. The interrelationships of the factors in the procedures transposed by the consumer protection regulation uniformly on the EU single digital market, i.e. the right to lodge complaints and the right to an effective legal remedy and to establish a sanctions regime adapted to the legislative system of each Member State. This draft bill fulfils all the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, so that there will be no obstacles to the full implementation of the Regulation by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94672	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first is the esteemed Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94673	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State one question, i.e. Two. What will happen with the certificates already issued according to the current standards, whether new certificates will have to be issued immediately and in what way and whether they will be unique across the EU market when we implement this law and the regulation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94674	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94675	Therefore, at the expiry of the certificate or by some provision of a regulation on the introduction of new products and services, all manufacturers and providers will actually have to produce new certificates for their products and services or processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94676	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94677	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. In order to have an advanced society and thus to increase productivity and efficiency, it is necessary to systematically encourage digital technologies, upgrade and improve all systems primarily of security. The pandemic has shown the importance of modern digital infrastructure and the availability of digital services for everyday activities. We certainly see progress through investing in digitisation, so I welcome raising standards through atheists and certification as well as this legislative framework. But my question is how will it affect our Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94678	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94679	Thank you. Therefore, given that I have stated in this section that around 10% of the market is waste on certification processes, i.e. quality control and compliance checks for information and communication products and services. Therefore, Croatian entrepreneurs will have the opportunity and have the chance to win part of the cake from the entire amount used at EU level for the very processes. So we can expect the Croatian economy to contribute, with this law that the Croatian economy will benefit, that is, to contribute to the development of cybersecurity, but also to the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94680	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94681	Your Honor, your presentation today differs significantly from the one on the board yesterday, and I have to admit that this is one very important law, namely to touch one very important topic, so I would ask you two questions. One question is whether you know the difference between a Trojan horse, a worm and a virus and which of them is due to the fact that we get this law three years too late before the Croatian Parliament because we are talking here about a directive adopted in 2019 whose delayed application of some articles came into effect within 6 months of last year. Here, the answer to these two questions I think will explain everything to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94682	Thank you very much. So, I know the difference between a Trojan horse, a worm and a virus, so this one in cyberspace is well-known for this termology, and therefore the Croatian economy, or Croatia, is not going to do anything with this delay in law-making...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94683	No, no, please don't come from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94684	So, Croatia will not lose anything by adopting, delaying the adoption of this law, which in fact resulted in one of the known effects that we had in, in Croatian society, but not only in Croatia but also in the world pandemic, as well as in these earthquakes that were in, in Croatia, so that they have further slowed down various activities and in this law, but they will not slow down because certification schemes at EU level have not yet been adopted. Therefore, the law cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94685	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94686	The Honorable Vice-President, Secretary of State, has been visible these days as to how important it is, therefore, co-ordinated and solidarity action and development and the ability of the Union to react to enemy action, including cyber attacks. The establishment of this framework or structure that can finally be attached to this common EU will be important in this part of what I have now mentioned both specifically for Croatia and for all EU member states. Some documents show that countries in Eastern and Central Europe are 3 to 4 years behind. in that part of the development at EU Member State level. It is said to be a level of maybe 10 per cent, so I wanted to ask if this would speed up the backlog that had not only Croatia but also other Member States in Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94687	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94688	Thank you very much. Therefore, this law will achieve the uniformity of certification throughout the EU, which means that products produced in any EU member state and certified in that Member State will be the same as products in Croatia, which means that Croatia will have the opportunity to compete in these markets with the same values of the certification of those products and services that will be certified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94689	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94690	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, we could therefore hear that in addition to the importance and necessity of this law being passed and that the Republic of Croatia is not late in anything towards the EU, however, in very challenging times in which we are now globally located and in which cybersecurity is gained in additional importance we will be prepared not only through adoption into HS but also through timely implementation and through therefore all institutions that are prepared to implement it. What I'm interested in is, therefore, one part concerns legal terms or cyber security or cyber security prefix, since we know that the Republic of Croatia and the signatories of the 2001 Cybercrime Convention are linked to Budapest, later that it was adopted in HS and published in the National Journal, did this agree to be also feasible?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94691	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94692	Thank you. So here, in fact, certain language terms have occurred due to the official translation of the regulation itself into Croatian. While we use the Croatian language from, you mentioned it yourself, it means the 2001 Convention. the word cybernetic, cybernetic space, cybernetic system, cybernetic security, and such expression is continued in this law. So no, there are no changes while these parts relating to the quotation of the regulation itself, which is officially listed under that name in the Official Journal, have a different name.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94693	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94694	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't understand information and cybernetics any more than any average citizen, and we see that we have a colleague and colleague here who has a life profession, so of course I'll leave them with the expertise of the debate. But here are two questions from the layman's corner. We have been ensuring the implementation of the EU Regulation since 2019, and now that we are not late in 2022, that is the first question. And secondly simple and folkly, give a little explanation to the Croatian public, so admit to me what is national or in this case a European scheme of cybersecurity certification, for those of us who do not understand it too much I ask you for clarification. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94695	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94696	Well, here we are not late for the simple reason why this cyber-certification scheme at European level is not harmonised and has not yet been adopted by the EU, so from all Member States. Without this European scheme, we too cannot carry out the unique certification that will be carried out in all Member States. For this reason we are not late because we cannot implement it that the law is now in force, and on the other hand this scheme tells us processes and procedures uniformly at EU level as the product, any product of service or process certified in accordance with this Regulation. Here, so she's talking methods and ways of, how we're going to verify what we're certification.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94697	Dear Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94698	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, the proposal for a law that is before us today pointed out that in order to increase trust and security in the Union's single digital market, and given the rapid spread of connected devices, it was necessary to establish a framework for the security certification of products, services and the information and communication technology process of all cyberspace facilities. It is equally pointed out that cybersecurity certification becomes particularly important in view of the increasing use of cybernetic technologies for purposes that require a high degree of reliability and security. In that sense, my question is is certification mandatory and who determines it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94699	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94700	Thank you. Therefore, this Regulation and this law do not oblige anyone to be certified, so certification will be if required under any other legal or sublegal acts defined or rules, so something like whether any product that we buy today has an atest or has a CE marking means something on that principle. Whether it will be required to have such a certificate or be used in health or transport or elsewhere, therefore it depends on another regulation. So this law is talking about how to get a certificate for it, and I'm saying it's for someone else to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94701	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94702	Perhaps it is good to talk about this topic today, given that the issue of cybersecurity is of particular interest and for the current war in Ukraine, so we could hear about that in the event of a cyber attack on a NATO member, an article could be activated. 5. which means that it could be treated as a security threat that would cause collective defense. In that sense, I would ask you to explain what would mean for us to activate this article. Five, if it were to come to him? And given what it says on the SOA pages that Croatia is the target of state-sponsored cyber attacks that are thoroughly planned, advanced and persistent, do you know who this refers to? This is about state-sponsored cyber attacks, so I believe the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are particularly interested in which states we target when we talk about cyber attacks. So this one. 5. NATO and this. [[/Intruder Reiner: Your Honored Secretary of State. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94703	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94704	For art. 5. I cannot answer you because I am not an expert in this area, so I can talk about cybernetic threats that are on the rise so we must be aware that cybernetic threats or cyber attacks have occurred, are happening and will occur, and the goal of all states is that, even in this area, cybernetic space, they are resistant to any threat. If we knew what kind of attack would take place tomorrow and what intensity and what systems we would be prepared for, because we don't know what kind of resistance we have to build and spread throughout the Republic of Croatia. Of course, Croatia as a member of NATO and the EU is what you said is the target of state-sponsored cyber attacks, so these are attacks organised from certain countries and attacking certain resources from other countries. We recently had one of these, not in Croatia, but if I'm not mistaken in Lithuania.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94705	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94706	My dear secretary. Once you have received information that actually these European cybersecurity schemes or certifications still do not exist, it is clear that we could not prepare ourselves for this, and could not be prepared even for the institution that was tasked with determining that certification. What I'm interested in is actually products that come to us from third countries. It is that some of the products produced in Europe and also in Croatia use some of the parts that are important for communication from third countries. How will we, or Europe, react to these countries, or to these products, train them to comply with our certification requirements? Since we can't know what's going on there we can look for, are we going to look for special parts for the European market or are we going to adapt to another criterion?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94707	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94708	Thank you. So we will seek and seek through this certification and through a certification scheme to comply with the same conditions throughout the EU, which means that if products are outside the EU and must comply with the certification scheme or be certified under the law or this Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94709	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94710	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State. So one of the goals that is meant to be achieved through a cybersecurity certification system is to strengthen the EU's single digital market in order to become more resistant to the destructive actions of competitive global economies. The latest technologies, the new technologies that distribute the market are flying drones, we have floating railroads, we have agriculture without a country with little water. I'm interested in our small Croatia on this big global market with these new projects that we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94711	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94712	Thank you very much. So if we look at the global cyber security index index, meaning global, Croatia is 33rd place from 182 countries, but when we look at digitalization and the work of the last since 2016. until 2021. Croatia is growing from 24th to 19th place in the DESI index or index of digitisation and economy. The objective set out in the National Development Strategy until 2030. is to be on average the EU which is not an easy goal to achieve. There are insurance funds through the NPOO, and it is not simply a post, and that we have drawn up an ambitious plan, and the European Commission wrote in the latest report that we have actually created an ambitious plan that can achieve what we have outlined, so it is up to us to engage and achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94713	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94714	Thank you very much. Cybersecurity is very important. Of course, the number of systems depends on the security of this digital world. A number of information we have, security information, economic information, significant information, and I, of course, am interested in whether any attacks have been carried out not to call the state, on our kind of important system from another country to Croatia. There is one example of boredom, and it is very important to highlight when we mention the digitisation of Croatian society and the achievement of digitalisation with Europe, the EU has only to say that the largest profits of teleoperators have in the EU even in the world 42% of margins, our citizens pay the most for this digital world, here is that you know clearly here. But this other part interests me. Is there a member, another state cyber-attacking Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94715	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94716	Thank you very much. So, the Centre for Cybersecurity of SOA is the one that gathers all key stakeholders in the area of cybersecurity in the Republic of Croatia and in the SOA report we have information that points to certain cyber attacks activities. What I've already mentioned so cyber attacks have been happening, they're happening and they're going to happen. What level, which intensity of this after they happen and after it is possible to inform SOA us. Therefore, it is not directed to talk about information because that is how others are encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94717	Thank you very much. What's the matter with my colleague Bulj? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94718	Thank you very much. The article, a colleague, injured Article 238, where he expressed his dissatisfaction with my request. My inquiry was not for you to say the name and name of a particular country.../incomprehensible/... but for being carried out cybernetically, if it was made by another member in Croatia, that's all I asked. Not that you're giving out classified information from the security services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94719	Comrade Bulj, but dissatisfaction with the answer is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I mean, you are, you have a fourth warning now. I'm doing my job, but don't do that, please. I need to give you a distance measure on the basis of Article 241(1). This committee reporter wants to take his word? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. About 2 weeks ago in public, one of Croatia's 2 largest telecoms was a victim of hackers. The hacker stole personal data from some 100,000 citizens including names, last names, addresses and the OIB. Afterwards, the hacker responded to the addresses of several portals' editorials and discovered what he was doing. Here's a quote. I connected to American IP addresses, 7 days on tools, doing the same changes, extracting personal data, logging in late hours, and they didn't do anything for 7 days. The information I have is A1 account numbers, name and last name, address, OIB, tariff plan, contract number. I plan to publish them on the dark net and hacker forums unless the request is completed. Namely, he asked for a certain amount of money and gave them a deadline of 23 hours or he would announce it. The greatest irony of this is that many of these data, many of them can be reached through the portal of the government's body and not that they're encrypted, not that they're hacked, but they're there you just need to look for a little bit, that includes, for example. and land books. In this assembly, I talked many times about digital sovereignty, and last time in budget rebalancing, when I warned that the government had reduced funds to fight cybercrime or cybersecurity. So, apart from shooting ourselves in the leg figuratively, of course, it's really hard for me to figure out why we're so late with this law. In the last few years in Croatia, we have met in a very difficult and painful way, so it's actually deadly if you think about it with absolutely all the phenomena of the digital eco system that spill over into society. From radicalization on social networks that led to a terrorist attack here at our door on Mark's square through algorithmic discrimination, echo chambers on, which have adversely affected vaccine confidence and 2,000 years of development of medicine science, to malicious intelligence propaganda deepfakes and of course stealing data and hacking. Today, we colleagues and colleagues live in a world where Croatia can do more damage in a much shorter time than 16-year-old Shanghai with a good processor than the Chetniks in the entire Homeland War. I'm talking about material damage, even human damage. And what are we doing? We are implementing the 2019 regulation only now, and 3 years in the real world is about 3 centuries in that digital one. And not only that, we're reducing cybersecurity funds. The EU should be the idea, the biggest and best regulator in the world, and we are the EU. Croatia obviously does not take this topic seriously enough. I just hope it changes quickly because it's not just a war apocalypse scary, we talk about it a lot these days. Those who understand technology and its impact on society are very aware that infocalypse is equally terrible. And it would really be ironic to be saved from that scenario by just our digital underdevelopment. Ironic but actually if we think about it very, very Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94721	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will now speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94722	This topic is particularly important today in view of the events in Ukraine, but it is also important for us in principle, given that two weeks ago a large number of Croatian citizens, almost 100,000 of them came into the situation that their stolen data had been stolen since they were users of the A1 network. And here we come to many issues that we should settle, and the question is how much within our legislation we can do in view of the regulations and directives that come from the EU and that perhaps in some segments are not as strict as they should be when we talk primarily about consumer protection. And here we come to that key problem, in some way, the inconsistency of our national policy and the policy of our euro representatives, because in order to fight for our consumer rights to be protected outside some lobbying centres, and there is no need to doubt that it is precisely the different telecom operators who have power in their hands who are able to indirectly influence different laws and fight for our interests that we at European Parliament level, when the directives and regulations are already adopted, should be affected by protecting the rights of our consumers. In that sense, I will look at two things as part of these legal changes. The first refers to this recent case where nearly 100,000 users were brought into a very unpredictable position because their data had been leaked. And what does that mean? What will the Personal Data Protection Agency do in this case? Consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia is zero. I have previously metaphorically said that Croats are the biggest monkeys when we talk about the EU in the context of consumer rights. That we are not medium or bad at consummating our consumer rights in knowledge, but we are the worst. And now that's a very special expression in a situation like this. Imagine that you're one of those users who's been leaked by the OIB and other personal data for this hacker attack. What can you do in this situation? Will you change the OIB, name, last name and address? Well, you probably won't. Whose responsibility is that you are now in this invisible position, what is your data that you will not change to anyone available? Looks like no one's. So the website of the Personal Data Protection Agency in their opinions on the security of data protection and processing states that the processing manager has no obligation to pseudominate personal data to prevent thieves from being used. So it looks like we have one hole in the European Data Protection Regulation. Have they ever used data encryption in different telephone networks to keep them safe so that someone with them can't do anything if they get the same? And whose responsibility it is in the first place. It is no coincidence that the only ones who have come forward with objections to these legal changes are just another telecommunications operator, meaning Croatian Telecom. These are the legal changes most affecting them, because what they are concerned about is to what extent they will now have to guarantee cyber security certification, or worry that their system is protected. Of course, it is in their interest to have as little legal regulations as possible to collect business and make it difficult for them to function, while we as consumers and users are in the interest of being as protective as possible. When that attack occurred signically from minors, but in collaboration with some people from other countries, we could hear that A1 is obliged in this case only to inform users whose data were compromised, so we should be happy that this information came to the public, which I suppose is a picture of their transparency. But I repeat, the responsibility for the fact that this leak obviously isn't anyone's. What we will do at any level of action within the EU, either at Croatia's level to make someone responsible whose user you are if your data leaks. This is the question that we here need to ask and find a legal framework to protect our consumer rights. The second question that is asked precisely in the context of this security certification, not only security certification but generally cybersecurity, is the question of who should offer cybersecurity services. And it doesn't even matter, because no one can now who isn't licensed to come and offer cyber-protection. Here, when we talk about the allocation of accreditation, it is settled Article 7 where the Croatian accreditation agency grants accreditation to conformity assessment bodies at a time of five years if they meet certain requirements, etc. Now we'll see how much this will solve the problem in the first place. It is obvious that telecoms are those who could be users of this service, but it is clear that these legal changes point out that it will be a voluntary certification, which means unless the law regulates otherwise, which means that we should ask the question again, we want to explicitly regulate it by law to make it mandatory, so we have such security for our consumers or we want to work on a larger free company, so we leave it voluntary, but then there is no guarantee because certain companies don't have to use it. The other thing I want to look back on here is the questions I asked, unfortunately I didn't get an answer. So at the moment of such a serious attack as is currently happening in Ukraine where it is security-hazarded not only military but cybernetically more and more talk about the activation of so-called. Art. 5. which refers to, for example, an attack by a NATO member where the collective responsibility clause would be activated, and then led to what I was able to understand, and I liked that I got a more detailed explanation here because this certainly means, given the currentity of the topic, the kind of cyber attack that has serious security consequences can lead to an answer that is collective and is not exclusively cybernetic in nature, to this extent today cybernetics is not only dangerous but also beyond the virtual within the real consequences when we talk about what to do. We have seen that during this attack on Ukraine there have been various cyber attacks, the various sides of their government, parliament, MUP, etc. have been blocked, in fact, this cyberspace has become a kind of battlefield. What we could read on the pages of our SOA is that the target of state-sponsored cyber attacks is also us, Croatia which are thoroughly planned, advanced and persistent and which marks a high level of expertise and cover-up of the perpetrators over a long period of time. State-sponsored cyber attacks are aimed at carefully selected and carefully studied targets, and are carried out by organised hacker groups linking themselves to the intelligence systems of individual states. So we're no longer talking about some anonymous hacker who's been testing his abilities or fantasizing about millions, so he broke into some data bank just to show his power or to come up with concrete financial benefits rather than to talk about countries that are fighting cyber wars today. I don't know on the target of which state the Republic of Croatia is, but I believe it's an important security issue and that we should be able to get to know it a little bit more detail and it would be useful if someone here was from the boards of directors if we at least knew that someone was operating on that data and he was familiar with them if we were potentially in a security threat we couldn't be. But if we can know which states are attacking us on the ground, I don't understand why it would be a secret to which we are the state cyber attacks we target. The matter can be extremely serious, on the one hand, we are talking about the destruction of individual sites such as government, parliament, etc., but since the military is increasingly digitising and it is increasingly easier to attack it, or suppress it just by cyber attack. So the army's modernisation has its negative consequences in terms of vulnerability to hacker attacks. And here we even come to a kind of hypocrite, on one side of the hacker we look at in the context of that negative action past the law, on the other hand when we talk about anonymouss we welcome the fact that they blocked for example the Rushet Day if it's about our own interests at the moment where they're fighting for what's even good and in this case they're protecting Ukraine. We must regulate and protect the rights of our consumers, act at EU level, and make sure that the cybersecurity of the Republic of Croatia and see who is the attack of some other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94723	Thank you. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94724	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, I presume, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few, I'll be very brief, just a few things I've read from the text of this legislative proposal, so the basic issues that need to be regulated by this law or one of the goals that is meant to be achieved by a cybersecurity system or cybersecurity certification system are to strengthen the EU's single digital market, and now in an explanation here to make it a more significant factor on the global stage and become more resistant to the destructive actions of competitive global economies. So, in the beginning, we define the economy, or in this case the EU's digital economy, and its market, as potentially endangered by other global economies, so which we can assume is that a respected colleague in the debate has previously told us these data are rarely or never available. The goal is naturally digital sovereignty. This sounds quite modern, and we must say that without further ado, and it is necessary and must be achieved because we are digitizing more and more, perhaps even so much and not so many generations there born in the '50s, the '60s, but we all see that life in the virtual world for younger generations is almost and absolutely everyday reality, we see that companies can no longer function without well thought-outs on digital markets, some of course thanks to today's digital production opportunities and is one of the main activities. Therefore, we will assume the obligation to harmonise the rules and to act in this area of construction or to adapt the national cybersecurity certification system to the common one. All of this is in principle nothing questionable. The first step at our national level is to establish a framework or structures that can be imported into a common European structure, and then programmes can be implemented in the intended manner primarily with the aim of building a domestic market, as further stated in the text in line with the others in the Digital Single Market. I remind you that we have heard such beautiful words, heard and received 10 days when we discussed the Agriculture Strategy here, it is always that I will not say a list of good wishes but normatively cite plans and let's say so some ideas that should be realized in some future. What we often point out is the main question, are we going to have the resources of knowledge, so equipment and therefore people and that educated people who are going to be discussing and implementing what we're doing here today? And the fact that we're in a highly digitized society where security measures are extremely important doesn't really need to be spoken in particular. There have already been some recent cases here and through replicas and parliamentary presentations that have been quite entertaining the public, of course there were also those funny images of memos in which you prayed not to leave a small child near the computer could hack into some large Croatian companies. I'm afraid it's a joke. But it is in some real virtual world and it is not so far from the truth, of course a small child can't do it, but the fact is that there are probably so many in Croatia and in the world that groups dealing with it, to whom we call it so original activity. As there are drug traffickers, as there are hit men, so there are so-called. hackers or people who live in the virtual world exist there as some of us are completely unclear identities and, of course, they deal with even the worst cases when, of course, breaking into the databases of certain economic operators blackmailing the same economic operators to threats that go to the level of state or system and national security systems. Here we are now in a situation of war conflict in Ukraine that threatens to spill to the rest of Europe and do not give God the entire globe of the earth, so let us be sure that it is as cybernatic as that earthly war, let us be sure that it is going on and that in every possible way try to do as much damage to the other side as possible. What's still clear in this text again I say it all looks together, I'm not gonna say it like it was written by Hans Christian Andersen, but it's like it's some beautiful children's book that we're going to read to a child before we go to sleep. The quality control operations, i.e. verifying the achievement of a standard resulting in certificates, tests or certificates, constitute about 10% of the digital market with growth trend of the relatively highlighted security care and the complexity of new technologies. No doubt. Objectively for the Croatian digital economy, this diversification is welcome and growth is expected in this niche with minimal interventions and incentives and will allow domestic digital entrepreneurs to reach the second-hand and professional levels equal to the best in the Union in a very short time. So I don't see any reason to put the word minimum into the text of these legal changes. Why minimal? We know for ourselves that digitisation and, of course, cybersecurity is related to it is contitiated by son qua non, without it being done in the future, and already today neither can nor will be able to. So interventions and incentives must be maximum, not minimal. And here, finally, I'm just going to say, they're talking about estimates that are said to be in the digital economy of the new EU member state, and we're the latest three to four years behind and not to be reduced. The establishment of a cybersecurity certification system promises to erase such a difference at least in that niche. It is therefore still a beautiful desire that will not go without a undoubtedly high quality legal framework, but without state interventions, without incentives and, of course, I remind once again without relying on the right and the professionals who will be able to implement it. For us, Croatia's future in the digital world will certainly not be some kind of clerk but young talented, capable, extremely educated people who will know the best way to benefit from all the benefits of digital technologies. We have enough already in Croatia, they may be 15, 16, 17 or 18, 20 years old in many of what they call hubs entrepreneurship centers, there are in entrepreneurial incubators to them we should turn around and call them without any shame to talk and ask how the state can help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94725	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP Club of Honored Representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94726	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April on the implementation of cybersecurity certification, first of all two possible deficiencies, has already been mentioned by someone, which is the deadline for adoption and as everyone today probably likes to justify that the reason for the covid was then probably the reason for this covid, and the second may be the failure to create a national scheme which is not sufficiently well defined in itself so as to say the proposal for a law on the implementation of the regulation. Now we can ask the question of what is cybersecurity today? These are some processes, measures and standards that guarantee a certain level of reliability in the use of products and services in cyberspace. Maybe we're that guy. 3. then they could define a little bit and a little bit differently, so here it was put that these are all activities that are necessary to protect against cyber threats, I think it might even be clearer to say that these are actually measures and standards. Now we're going back to that main or cor part that is actually and what is the significance of cybersecurity for the development of our society. It is large, therefore, in the public and economic sectors, it is also great for Croatian citizens, but it is also very important for the Croatian state. So the ultimate goal should be available to us, open and above all safe Croatian cyberspace, which is coordinated and balanced at EU level. I think colleague Marija Selak Rasdic mentioned in her presentation some threat to Croatian cybersecurity, therefore, of course, that they are constantly at both European and Croatian level and they are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, so they are not only malpractice programmes, they are also abuses of personal, financial data, abuses on social networks, but as president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security they can say that actually institutions under quotes, services engaged in and cybersecurity are doing this work in a very good way, in a satisfactory way. But it's definitely important to raise the awareness of society, and also the institution of all possible cybernetic threats, in fact, in a way that needs to be protected from them. And now that the EU has a number of measures, a series of regulations mean that it refers to that cyberspace by trying to raise resilience and strengthening its security readiness. So, it was still going somewhere in 2013 so on that first strategy I think even there was Nelly Cross, the Dutch woman was even the Commissioner for the Digital Agenda, where strategic goals were already introduced, concrete measures, and so in 2013, 2020, as the world is actually changing rapidly, as technology is changing, communication technologies are changing as well. But it's good that this new 2020 proposal actually highlights three key areas. So it's technological resistance, watch technological sovereignty and leadership. So Europe actually wants to be the leader, and so do we, like Croatia. The second is building operational capacity to prevent deterrence and return, but it is still good at some EU level to say so. It means what you can see today during the Ukrainian, Ukrainian crisis. And your third is the development of a global and open cybernetic space with a very important detail, I hope it hasn't missed anyone, which is that man stays at the heart of the event or that man is a subject in cybernetic space. So, I'm not sure it's my personal opinion that we're actually ready as a society, not to think about Croatian, but European society, the world society for artistic intelligence. I'm not sure we're ready for it as a society in general, as people. So, definitely the man in that whole transformation must be in the center, the subject must be in cyberspace. And of course certification here is becoming more and more important. It means reliability, security, openness with some common automation control system. But let's not forget the rights of citizens, so it's also citizens, but also the achievement of human rights and interests. So we should strengthen the EU's single digital market through this legislative proposal, and then step towards Croatia's i.e. Our national structure is, in fact, to create a national structure which can then be connected in the intended way since the bill is actually about the implementation of the EU Parliament and Council regulation. So that, in this way, when we build a domestic market, we can connect it to a single digital market, which is, for Croatia, as a small country, a small country is actually very important. Why? Because we are creating an opportunity for an effective common approach, meaning both the countries and the economic sector and the academic sector, which is what it is, I forgot to mention at all what is of the utmost importance especially if we know what we are like and where we stand if we look at few indices of competitiveness and in the performance of scientific works and about the integration itself, I will say only that, the common European market. And there is also an opportunity to develop some new Croatian startups, products, processes, services, information communication technologies that should therefore be consistent and unique for the entire EU area. So, we in the SDP welcome the adoption of a bill on the implementation of the regulation, probably the law itself, I say along with two of our remarks, which does not mean that we will not vote for it. So that's what I said at the beginning. It was a time of adoption and perhaps the closer it did not clarify the adoption of a national cybersecurity scheme. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94727	A debate will follow on behalf of Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94728	Two years ago, actually, the hall would probably be this empty, but it wouldn't make any special sense to discuss something, but it should simply be accepted. Unlike a colleague who spoke before me, the architecture of the EU does not actually go from below to below, but from the EU level and this law, when you look at it, has 5 sheets of paper, 18 articles and does nothing but assumes what the directive has prescribed. And the directive was created in 2019, it was intended to enter into force, and all of its articles, or articles that were to come in later, were precisely those who define what we are doing today. So it was said in that directive that the bodies that we are establishing today, or the certification body and the accreditation body that already exist, but we are now granting them these powers are being delayed by the application of Articles 58, 60 and some until the 6th month 2022. So this is all we had to bring back to that time. Everything else is in this regulation. What the colleague was saying about the protection of consumer rights in this case in the information area is also an EU directive, it is even listed in this Directive somewhere from 2015. So Europe was thinking about it. I'm the last time we talked here about the recovery of the banking system I said I'd support it for the simple reason because it's obviously better for someone else to take care of us than for ourselves, because obviously we have a government that's not able to take care of the deadlines and at a time when we have a man would say peacetime. And now we come to what cybersecurity means today. Cyber security today, everyone's talking here about a man in the center of that cyberspace. Then look at Article 3 and the explanation of Article 3 where it is said as one of the most important things that is now called cybernetic, not cyberspace, and in Article 1 of the Law itself is about cyberspace. I asked them yesterday how many of the lecturers they've been looking at. When we talk about a man in the center of everything, then we should talk about the advantages and weaknesses that happen in such a case and this cybersecurity that today, as someone before me has said, involves the process of measures, the standards that we are actually making our lives fully determined. We as humans today, someone would say we're like avatars. Everything we have, everything we own, everything we do actually exists in that cyber cybernetic or other space. Who doesn't understand? None of us owns the apartment if the land book falls because it's in that space. None of us have any money in the account if the system falls because it's all written down digitally somewhere, so the law, or cybersecurity itself, is more important today than anything else. She's actually protecting information about ourselves. And that's why I get angry when as a member of the EU, so these are all things brought in at a time when we were a member we simply don't respect what we bring ourselves. And here on the board was said to be a working group, so we asked who was in that task force, so all the important elements of the protection of this society were that they were in that group, so I went a little googling, and then I found that the National Cyber Security Council mentioned in its 2020 report this European Union document, this directive. If they mentioned it then that they were working on it in 2020, it is not clear to me what we have been waiting for today, and this is about our relationship or our problem with what we are solving for the citizens. Because my colleagues here spoke 100,000 users in A1. Try to imagine what would happen, and according to today's war debates, it's not impossible for someone who wants us to try to bring down an entire system of e-citizens. That's what we need to protect, because that's how we protect the de facto system we live in. I'm saying the law de facto defines the body for the certification that exists, it's the Institute for the Security of Information Systems. He'll only get new powers. The body for accreditation is a Croatian accreditation agency that also exists, which will probably need to do another additional job and get out of Europe's failure to bring in a cybersecurity scheme. When we know there's a problem, then probably these agencies we appoint should have offered our local let's put it this way to say how to solve these problems. And then, I say we have agencies, we issue today's certificates. It's not that we don't issue certificates, we issue those certificates. Someone asked in the replica what it would be worth in the regulation that it would be worth it, and when it was worth it, it would go according to the new protocol. So it's not like we don't know all that. We were just being careless, indolent or government didn't care to respect what I say we brought ourselves into this Europe. So here I have to admit there's not much to support except for the need for colleagues to ask that what they have just written in the reasons of the law harmonize and in the articles of the law regarding terminology. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94729	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94730	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Digital transformation, which is also one of the EU's top priorities, changes everyday life and habits as well as ways of doing business, and communication, and as such creates new challenges. With the development of digital technology, the world becomes more connected, education, health care becomes more accessible, while at the same time ways of communication and business become simpler and automated. In other words, the growth of digitisation and connectivity leads to greater cyber risks, i.e. because digital and physical space is increasingly intertwined, new dangers arise, which makes cybersecurity important for different areas of consumer Internet security to the normal work of hospitals, water supply or, for example, electricity supply. It is therefore indisputable that, under normal everyday circumstances, it is extremely challenging to deal with threats in cyberspace as well as to respond to them in a timely manner and more importantly to respond accordingly. Over the last 2 years. which were insecure and unpredictable, it became even more pronounced, more challenging, more complex and dynamic. However, as the introduction said, the basic issue that needs to be regulated by the proposed law, or one of the objectives planned by the cybersecurity certification system, is to strengthen the EU's single digital market in order to make it a more significant factor on the global stage and more resilient to the more destructive actions of competitive global economies. This should also make it easier to achieve one of the Union's strategic objectives, which is digital sovereignty, i.e. the possibility of free and independent decision-making on all matters related to cyberspace. Accordingly, EU Member States have taken over the obligation to harmonise their rules and actions in this area, and to build or adapt national cybersecurity certification systems to the common. Furthermore, in order to increase trust and security in the Digital Single Market of the Union, and given the rapid spread of connected devices, a framework should be established for the safety certification of products, services and the information communication technology process, i.e. all cyberspace facilities. In this context, cybersecurity certification is highlighted in the draft of this legislative proposal and becomes particularly important in view of the increasing use of cybernetic technologies for purposes that require a high degree of reliability and security, and in an increasing number of sectors, a significant increase in dependence on information communication products, services and processes, particularly in transport in the system of life and health, in industry, and in the achievement of human interests and rights. Similarly, it should be stressed that cybersecurity certification plays an important role in strengthening confidence in information communication products, services and processes. A single digital market, especially the data economy and Internet things can only develop if there is general public confidence that such products, services and processes ensure a certain level of cybersecurity. The certification therefore plays a key role in ensuring high cybersecurity standards, product standards, services and information technology processes. The fact that different EU countries use different security certification programmes leads to market fragmentation and regulatory barriers. This proposed law also determines the way we have already heard the national authority for cybersecurity certification in the Republic of Croatia and this is in this case the meaning of the Information System Security Institute while the accreditation body is determined by the Croatian Accreditation Agency. Finally, this bill implies a prerequisite for creating the resilience of society and relevant state bodies to malicious activities of external actors through cyberspace aimed at creating threats to the general security of society, as well as contributing to the building of digital literacy of data and digital sovereignty at national and international level. And more importantly, cybersecurity certification confirms that information communication products, services and processes have been evaluated in accordance with European cybersecurity certification schemes, and that they meet established safety requirements for the protection of availability, originality, integrity and confidentiality of stored, sent or processed data, functions or services offered by such products, services or processes. Following that above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposed law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94731	There are individual debates, the first one is the respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94732	So, earlier in the debate on behalf of the club, I was telling us that this topic of cybersecurity certification is extremely interesting for two reasons, first because of a recent cyber attack on one of our teleoperators, and second because of the current situation in Ukraine and the growing cyber attacks, and on SOA sites we find out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the victims of national cyber attacks, or that it is threatened and that there are intelligence services from other countries that are working to destabilise our cybernetic space. In that sense, I would like to highlight a few things, other than what I consider crucial, which is to protect our consumer rights, but we have to act at EU level in this respect, because only before will what is crucial be done, and here in some things, and we do not have so much room for manoeuvre if we want a stricter legislative framework. With regard to what we do in the Republic of Croatia, we need to point out that we have a national strategy and action plan from 2015. Areas and links, areas of cybersecurity point out that our plan aims to monitor technical and design measures taken by operators to ensure the safety of their networks and services, as well as to direct public communications network operators or services to ensure a high level of security and accessibility of public communications networks and services. It's in our action plan since 2015. Then we have one security breach recently and we're finding that it's not really anyone's responsibility, nor will those users who should probably be happy that they're in any way compensated because someone right now can manipulate their data that's obviously not going to change because it's a name, a last name and an OIB. And then the question arises what have we done within our action plan with such an explicit measure, and to ensure our construction and monitoring of these communications networks in terms of possible security gaps that they make or insufficient levels of security to protect the data of our citizens? Whoever is in charge of this action plan is HAKOM, so the issue is primarily focused on him. The second objective of our action plan is to publish and implement guidelines on Internet payment security. What often happens especially when we talk about cybersecurity, and perhaps some of you have had closer encounters with it is problems with online payments when your card is rejected or someone comes to your data if you use your data to pay on some insecure pages. What, given the level of consumer rights and knowledge of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia, is undeniable that our citizens are not familiar with the guidelines on the security of internet payments and safety levels of individual sites and, in some ways, use their credit cards headlessly and often can be reached by minors, which is why their personal data is compromised. Are we working enough to make public awareness of what pages we can, which we cannot use, and where our online payments are compromised? Does any of you know if this page you want to use and where you want to buy, I don't know, the latest trainer or book is safe, or when you get to that site, cross over, pay and hope for the best? If we don't know, whose fault is it that none of us know? These are data that are of vital interest to our citizens and should be publicly communicated through various campaigns and made available to ensure that citizens are not targeted by a specific cyber attack. More and more frequent Croatian companies are thus threatened to be valued by paying a certain amount of money and more often this happens in virtual currencies to obtain their data that are hacked back. It happens to architectural studies, but it happens to individuals who have popular Instagram profiles and so on. And what is the most common answer to this situation is not to seek state protection and to check our security measures but to pay these same hackers to make the company or the system survive, and that certainly is not satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94733	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94734	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I'm going to use one part of my exposure to correct some of the terms, and here we've heard a lot of things some of the terms are a little bit wrong, so let me just point out. So hackers are good guys, and those who steal who are thieves and who want to use some things on the Internet are called crackers, that's the first thing. The second thing, to refer to your latest exposure, this theft, or access to data on business payments with banks, is a little trick, and because of the most frequently occurring frauds on the Internet. They were with us before, correct me maybe for five, six years, and they were cheating when the sessions were being stolen, and then the money could be stolen from the bank's account in that amount that was actually intended for an account. But I would like to propose to the esteemed secretary and associates to be in the article. 3.St. 1. to replace the word information with the word "data" and then the article would. 3.st. 1st century means where it lists what information communication technology says activity and equipment that makes the technical basis for systematic collection, storage, processing, dissemination and exchange of data, not information. If you don't mind considering it a little bit, the information and information are not the same, not all data is information, so I think it would be more correct. I know that the directive writes information, but I think, given our expression, it would be more accurate and correct, meaning data, different forms, and by means of information on the Internet, it would allow access, connection and management of things. I would like to draw attention to a few of the things that I have come across in the law, of course they are the same in the directive, although in fact most of the directive refers to an explanation why the regulation is not a directive, but a regulation, which means I have come across the regulation, although most of the regulation actually applies to ENISA or the EU Agency for Cyber Security, and very little is actually written about this certification. I tried to find somewhere in the European cybersecurity scheme on certification, but we got an answer from Mr. Secretary that it hasn't been passed yet, so I really hope we agree, Mr. Secretary, that we don't even know what's waiting for us. Since we don't know what we're going to have to test, which we're going to have to verify, I think we're going to have to have more work to do after that, and probably a whole series of regulations that we're going to have to do to make it work. In fact, we know that the EU says in the law, or the bill says that the national body for cybersecurity, security certification is actually the Information System Security Service, so there will be another department, a department that will handle that part of the business under some rules, and I hope that according to the newly adopted European cyber security schemes, security certifications will be passed and these national security certification schemes, as we expect that we will participate in some small part of it, because I think a large number of our IT experts and IT companies are interested in knowing what awaits them in the next step. I'm not sure, but as far as I know in Croatia, there is currently no computer security incident response team, I haven't encountered any exact information as to whether it will be a new team or a new institution, or whether these jobs will be entrusted to CERT. I didn't find this one, although in the regulation itself, it's clearly said specifically about the security incident response team and specifically about the CERTs. We know our CERT is working, we know how it works, we know who he's sharing this with. Of course those more successful and larger companies have created their CERTs that automatically exchange data with the national CERT so that this part of the job is clear, but I don't understand whether we're going to have all this Securtious incident response team. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94735	Next is a replica, respected...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94736	Dear colleague Pavić, I find what you've been saying interesting. All additional remarks and precise terms are welcome to the point. I know there's one disagreement about the term hacker. However, what interests me is how to define organisations, groups like, say, Anonymous who say to themselves Hack the Planet and everywhere call them officially a hacker group, and although they act subversively and revolutionaryly in this case Ukraine is considered to be a good party, their action is still beyond the legal limits because I suspect that, for example, Russia Today is now the most recent example, inaccessible. Is it then all that works past legal hackers or exclusively crackers and what the Anonymouss would be in that context if you could comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94737	They're as bored as we can see they're always on the side of these good people so they'd call them actually these hackers because they help, they're not the ones who come and steal. So the crackers are the ones who break this into the information systems and then steal data with the goal of exploiting it. And usually some big business entities hire them to get some data because when you do some business research, some kind of research that lasts 2, 3, 5, 7 years costs millions and even tens of millions of euros and when you get to the data that was obtained during those research for free or that you paid them to that team that broke into the information system, I think you made a lot of money. So I wouldn't get involved in that language expression, but I think they're the good guys right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94738	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Sinisha Jekač.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94739	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, this law provides for the implementation of the regulation and contains provisions on cybersecurity certification in the field of communication and information technology. The EU has already taken measures to regulate relations in cyberspace in order to strengthen resilience and strengthen its cybersecurity presence. In 2013, the first Cybersecurity Strategy was adopted setting out strategic objectives and measures to achieve resilience, reduce cybercrime, develop cyber defence policy and defence capabilities, develop industrial and technological resources and establish a harmonised international cyberspace policy for the EU. With the creation and development of the Digital Single Market Union, the Union has created the need to establish a framework for the safety certification of products, services and the information communication technology process since cybernetic technology is increasingly used for purposes that require a high degree of reliability and security, such as in terms of traffic of automated management, life and health maintenance systems, eHealth, industrial control systems for industrial, industrial automation, as well as human interests and rights of e-citizens. For the regulation of the transport legal area, the Directive on the safety of network information systems, which is in Croatia, is a Croatian legal system incorporated by the Cybersecurity Act of the operator of key services and digital service providers since 2018. The Directive continues with the Regulation on the EU Cybersecurity Agency and on cybersecurity and certification in the field of communication and information technology from 17 April 2019, whose implementation is ensured, whose implementation is ensured by this law. The objective of cybersecurity certification itself is to strengthen the EU's single digital market, which would serve to achieve one of the EU's strategic objectives. digital sovereignty. In order to achieve this, all Member States have committed themselves to, harmonising their rules and their actions. Therefore, this proposal for a law has been drawn up. The law itself determines the meaning of certain concepts used in the law. It is important to note that the translation of the regulation from English to Croatian has made adjustments to individual names and thus its name cybernetics, in accordance with the 2001 Convention on Cybercrime of the Council of Europe, which is also a signator of the Republic of Croatia. The law lays down the meaning of information communication technology, cybersecurity, European cybersecurity certification scheme, European cyber security certificate, accreditation, authorisation and qualified auditor. The law lays down a national body for cybersecurity certification, the tasks and powers of this body, registration in registers, legal protection, supervision and criminal sanctions. As a national body for cybersecurity certification in the Republic of Croatia, the Office for Security and Information System shall be designated and its tasks and powers shall be regulated. The powers of the Institute are laid down in a Regulation. The Office shall also be authorised to carry out tasks of establishing the need for adoption, as well as only the adoption of a national cybersecurity certification scheme, the adoption of instructions for implementation, the implementation of laws and regulations, and the supervision of the implementation of this law. Since 19 September 2019, the Office has already been designated as a temporary body, while this law provides for the permanent performance of these tasks. As a national accreditation body, a Croatian accreditation agency which grants accreditation to further conformity assessment bodies as legal or natural persons accredited to the Croatian accreditation agency and possibly approved by the institutions shall be designated as a national accreditation body. It is also arranged, organised reporting and registration procedure in the European register, in the event that the European cybersecurity certification scheme contains the necessary additional conditions or requirements. The law leads to the management of national registers of bodies to assess the consent of accredited or authorised in the Republic of Croatia as a register of European cybersecurity, etc. According to the above, the law in question needs to be adopted to improve the situation of European cybersecurity certification Security of implementation of the Regulation creates assumptions, etc., etc. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94740	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94741	Art. 4 of the law in question, Article 3 speaks of the fact that cyber security certification is voluntary unless otherwise specified by the law or by a legally binding EU act. If I correctly interpret this item, it seems that we within our laws can regulate the situation in such a way that cyber security certification becomes mandatory independently of the binding EU act, although it depends on it, as the binding EU act will say, because again our laws cannot be stricter, etc. I therefore believe that the key question here is how do we want to regulate and regulate consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia through this security certification, or make sure that this cybersecurity certification is on all the products that they will use as a security guarantee. That's the question we should be giving an answer to here. For some reason, these cybernetic topics that are crucial to our present, and even more to our future, do not cause excessive interest in HS. But I'll go back to two things one more time. I will visit that Croatia too, given the security intelligence services of other countries, is the target of cyber attacks and that we should follow key documents relating to monitoring our level of security because I will remind that cyberspace experts warn that most of our companies except financial systems have a low level of cybersecurity. We've had more recently in a few years ago a breakthrough in INA, now we've had a breakthrough in A1 telecoms, etc., obviously not investing enough in cybersecurity. Now there are these legal changes, they will be voluntary unless we settle it differently, and so far we have not arranged otherwise, but there remains a problem of cybersecurity of the Republic of Croatia and at the level of consumer protection, but also at the level of what certain companies have to do at all. When we talk about what recently happened to A1 users regardless of perhaps the company's goodwill, the fact is that they were publicly notified remains an open question whose responsibility it is. If on the website of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and someone's personal data has just been stolen here, so the name, last name and OIB, in their opinions on the security, storage and processing of personal data, it is said that the processing manager has no obligation to pseudoise personal data, the question is whether it is possible that it is no one's responsibility, that once someone comes to your data to tell the people to eat the donkey wolf. And if we do not decide here within the legal framework to pressure companies to have a satisfactory level of cybersecurity that will guarantee their users and that someone answers for their data to be stolen and that we will steal a security space that will allow a minimum of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia, and this will be a growing issue, and it will be resolved primarily at EU level and we do not work there enough. There will be more and more questions because more and more of what we're doing is digital. I have set an example of the fact that the military is currently becoming more vulnerable because many of its actions, given its digitisation, can be launched digitally. So it's no longer a question of whether or not you're going to attack a government site, but it's a question of how you're going to prevent a weapon from working if you go into someone's system. More and more payments are being made virtually, more and more services are being transferred to virtual reality. According to the data available, Croatia does not have a satisfactory level of protection and this is the place where we need to think more carefully about protecting our consumers and fight for the legal initiatives that will guarantee it in this case. And not that it happens like this once your key data disappears that you have an unsettled space where it really isn't anyone's responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94742	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94743	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here I would just like to briefly respond, given that the secretary will not eventually have the final word of her colleague when she asked what the attacks were and what the attacks were in Croatia. There are all sorts of attacks, but you need to know that a number of cyber attacks will never be found out, primarily because there is one challenge for you, and it's called a dark number of attacks that are actually hidden, and they're hidden by institutions like banks, insurance companies, credit companies, credit institutions, savings, etc., because they're not in the interest of knowing that they're being attacked that some data have been stolen and they're actually total damages themselves, and that's why we can't know what the real number of attacks on certain institutions are. We can know what the attacks on our state institutions are, given that this is being monitored by our experts and that it is regularly recorded and monitored on strong registers. In addition, do not forget that all of us who were on some lists, if you were in the local elections, then these lists were made public on the Internet with your name and residence data, or about your residence, there was also another information that is crucial for the theft of personal data, which is the OIB. So we've all given our data to the Internet and that information can be used to serve anyone and how they want and do with them whatever they want. Of course, the question is whether someone will use it or not. Here's so much about it, we could talk about it a lot, the subject is very broad, but I'd like to go back to this law. In fact, what I'm interested in is part of ENISA means the EU Cyber Security Agency has its own organisational and management structure, so I'm interested in whether this structure is going to have a different structure, given that much of the regulation is actually written about ENISA, and I'm interested in whether this structure is going to be mirrored by the Information System Security Institute or whether the Institute will have some different structure, since it should most probably be separate and perhaps as some subsector or sector within the Institute? I'm interested in whether it's going to be so... so maybe next time you'll give us an answer to another reading. The second thing I'm interested in is these problems related to European cybersecurity schemes, security certifications here, and we said that based on these schemes, we're going to make national schemes, and of course we can't, since we don't know what Europe is up to in that part, we can't even know what's waiting for us. But what is definitely written in the law, which is that we will have unique levels of certification and that is basic, considerable and high and of course that certification depends on the level of risk associated with the use of these information and communication products, services or processes. Now, what I'm interested in, I say again, please, then since we're not going to get that answer today, the answer to the next reading, who's going to do the risk assessment? Will this be done at EU level or will it be done at national level and who will have RMS or Risk management system under control, who will run it, who will update it, whether it will go at national level or go at Europe level? Since the certification of certain obvious products, services and processes will have to be defined by law, and is currently not defined, but it has been said to be defined by law. So not all have to access certification, but those who are defined in the law or for those prescribed by the law must. I am also interested in what will be certified, or what products, services and processes will come if you have information about this, if you have cooperated, if you have been in contact with the EU Commission, that we know what will happen here. And I don't understand how Europe imagined that security was being implemented, given that, among other things, they were writing about the Internet of Things means joining all these things, for example. Cars, TVs, home appliances and everything else, and we know that all those attackers are attacking us. System. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, here are the questions, so if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94744	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Secretary of State for your cooperation. The following is the following point: - Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017-2020. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 130. Consumer protection laws. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94747	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will now present to you the Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017-2020. The National Consumer Protection Programme is a strategic document setting out objectives, measures, priority areas and activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy for a period of 4 years. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development as the body responsible for consumer affairs in the Republic of Croatia shall also implement the coordination of the work of all consumer protection holders in relation to the implementation of the national programme. The Ministry of Economy, in cooperation with all stakeholders of consumer protection policy, has drawn up a proposal for a report for the period 2017 to 2020. Therefore, this report covers the first legislative activities in the reporting period. During the reporting period, it was continuously working on the improvement of national consumer legislation, and the Consumer Protection Act was amended in 2019 as well as the amendment in question. There are clearer obligations for traders to highlight prices during the last forms of sales, as well as provisions governing the provision of public services and other things which are not now the subject of this report. The Law implementing Regulation 302 of 2018 also addresses the issues of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of nationality, place of residence or place of establishment and the Law on the implementation of Regulation 23/94 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcement of regulations and consumer protection. During the reporting period, the National Strategic Framework for consumer financial literacy for the period 2015-2020 was also adopted and four action plans were developed to improve consumer financial literacy. These reports also include promotional activities and public legal campaigns, consumer protection associations and business community associations intended to educate consumers on their rights and how to protect them. During 2017 and 2018, two major campaigns were organised together for consumers and all in one place held in 11 Croatian cities. The public event in one place began in 2017 in the Flower Square in Zagreb, continued in several major cities such as Osijek, Varazdin, Rijeka, Split. As part of the events together for consumers, campaigns were held in several major cities across the Republic of Croatia such as Zagreb, Čakovec, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Pula, Zadar and Dubrovnik. During the reporting period, the World Consumer Rights Day is conveniently marked each year. On the occasion of the March 6th 2017 marking, a conference entitled "Consumer Trust Key to the Development of the Economy in the City of Zagreb" was held on 6 March 2017. March 15, 2019 The World Consumer Day was held under the password we remember with smart technology consumer protection in the digital world. Representatives of the Croatian National Bank held a workshop titled "What We Need to Know About Paying on the Internet", and representatives of the HANFA workshop called the Security of Finance on the Internet. The Department of Economy team also organised a competition for primary and secondary school students for making videos, info graphics, posters and comic books on the topic of protection in the digital world. A total of 118 papers and 70 elementary and secondary schools across the Republic of Croatia were received at the competition, and new smart records were provided as a reward for four schools. The World Consumer Rights Day was marked in 2020. As part of the celebration of this day, the Ministry of Economy launched a competition for primary and secondary school students titled becoming a green consumer. A total of 86 schools responded to the competition, and three of the best works awarded with the smart bench of Croatian Innovator Ivan Mrvoš were selected after the competition. During the reporting period, a number of work publications aimed at informing consumers primarily about their rights and their protection on the global market have been issued. This report also includes a presentation of consumer information tools and a total number of consumer queries received during the reporting period. So several tools have been used in the reporting period to inform and educate consumers. It's a consumer phone. Therefore, in January-May 2018, consumer enquiries through a unique telephone number were received by the Ministry of Economy every working day from 10 to 14 hours and were answered to 903 consumer questions. Additional lines for the consumer's phone were also opened during 2019, allowing consumers' calls to be free of charge. The total number of calls received via a free consumer phone was somewhere around 8,000 of these calls while in 2020 5667 were answered. The Central Consumer Protection Information System for the purpose of establishing faster communication with citizens is a central consumer information system that enables citizens in the Republic of Croatia to request, through e-mail, explanations of regulations and procedures from the authorities responsible for individual areas of consumer protection. A total of around 11,000 queries were received from 2017 to 2020. The largest number of free phone queries were related to the material deficiency, the guarantee of the correctness of the sold thing, distance sales, return or replacement of the right product, electricity, public water supply and disposal, and questions about the amount of public service bills, reading of the numbers and others. The next tool was the European Consumer Centre. The European Consumer Centre is part of a network of European consumer centres that provides advice and provides information on cross-border purchase and helps consumers resolve cross-border lawsuits and disputes. The questions addressed by the European Consumer Centre were, for example, online shopping, problems that may arise when travelling by plane, bus or train. Total is in the period from 2017 to 2020. either 5,600 queries and a unique portal for consumers on 30 April 2019 was launched and the site "All for Consumers" is the first Croatian central consumer portal through which citizens can inform themselves of their consumer rights. The report also covers the work of alternative dispute resolution bodies, so-called Peace centers. By way of derogation from the Act on Alternative, Alternative Dispute Resolution in December 2016 The basics have been set to further improve the consumer dispute resolution system. In addition to the already existing independent and qualified bodies for alternative dispute resolution, the establishment of other bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution is also possible. In order to implement the selection of alternative dispute resolution bodies, the Ministry of Economy took place in February 2017. published an open call for a statement of interest in the selection of alternative dispute resolution bodies for consumers. The decision was chosen, which selected alternative resolution bodies in the Republic of Croatia and which were then notified to the European Commission was chosen by the Centre for Peace at HGK, the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Insurance Office, the Profitest Centre for Peace Mediator, the Court of Honor at HGK, the Centre for Mediation of the Croatian Mediation Association, the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Association of Employers, the Court of Honors of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Centre for the Peace of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Of the selected bodies, 5 also exercised the right to grant financial support at an individual amount of 70,000 kuna, since they met the additional criteria prescribed by the open public invitation. These are the Court of Honors of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Centre for Peace at the Association of Employers, the Centre for Mediation at the Mediation Association, the Centre for the Peace of the Croatian Chamber and the Court of Honor at HGK, with the Centre for the Peace of the HUP no longer in office, and deleted it from the list of notified bodies. The Court of Honor at HGK is to be noted here since 2020. does not act for financial reasons although it is listed further by these authorised institutions. The report also processed the statistics of the control activities carried out by the inspection and other supervisory authorities, which resulted in a total of 52,53 000 inspections, which identified 12,400 infringements of the rules and in part of the market inspection in respect of which appropriate administrative and infringement measures were taken, with a total of 10,000 consumer representations, which also pointed to infringements of individual consumer rights and other irregularities of a partial market inspection. In the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a Regulation on the rapid exchange of official notices on products that pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers, etc. The rapeks system, as a control point for the rappes system, has established the central office of the DIRH or state, state inspection, the national contact point informed the Commission of 772 cases in which products were found on the market on the basis of received notifications from the European Commission and also provided the European Commission with 78 information on products found on the market of the Republic of Croatia through market and sanitary inspection activities and pose a risk to the safety and health of consumers. In view of the COvid epidemic during 2020, market inspection activities focused on continuous product controls covered by the government's decision on exceptional price control measures for certain products. The market inspection carried out a total of 1959 inspections where 18 administrative measures on the prohibition of such practice were imposed under the Consumer Protection Act in order to base an unfounded increase in product prices. Surveillances have been carried out in other sectors which do not apply to competent inspections, so agricultural inspectors have carried out some 3714 inspections on the basis of 14 targeted actions for this period. In view of the irregularities identified, 317 measures were adopted. The veterinary inspection carried out during that period some 5,000 samples of animal food and feed. The customs administration's executive supervision of the customs administration has destroyed about 2.5 million pieces of various counterfeit goods worth 8m euros. It also took away 623,000 pieces of various goods suspected of violating intellectual property rights worth 4, almost 5m euros. The CNB adopted consumer complaints by, in the reporting period from 2017 to 2020, in the number of some 3,000 consumer objections. HAKOM carried out 11 controls concerning the protection of passenger rights in rail transport. During that period, 5800 requests for dispute settlement between users and operators of electrical communications services were resolved. Electronic communications inspectors carried out over 360 inspections. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure received 22 complaints in 2018, and an increased number of performances were recorded in 2019, while in 2020 it was related to the protection of the rights of passengers in road transport. The Croatian Civil Aviation Agency has received 1777 complaints on the protection of air passenger rights. And finally HERA is in the period 2017–20. address a total of 1500 complaints and complaints from individual users of energy, energy services. The report also includes the development of product safety policy. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has continuously carried out activities in the reporting period with the aim of raising awareness of citizens, on product safety through its mentioned information campaigns, all in one place and together for consumers, as well as through a single portal for consumers. The activities of consumer protection organisations are also covered. During the reporting period, it has been continuously working to strengthen consumer rights organisations. The total number of information given in 4 consumer counselling centres, namely Osijek, Pula, Split and Zagreb, was 24,000 in 2017. In the new 6 consumer counselling centres Osijek, Pula, Split, Zagreb, Varazdin and Duga Resa, the total number of information given for the April-December 2018 period was 16,500 of which the largest number of queries also concerned trade, business and financial services. The public change survey carried out by the Ipsos Agency in 2018 showed that consumer protection organisations were insufficiently identified for what required a change in the way they were financed. Therefore, during 2019, two tenders were opened, totalling 13 financial support for the implementation of information projects, consumer education totalling 900,000 kuna. Due to the Covid pandemic with associations, seven new contracts and one supplement of the contract have been signed. In cooperation with the ministry and other bodies responsible for specific areas, 6 cycles of education of consumer protection associations in the Republic of Croatia were held. The education was attended by participants from 24 associations. Implementations, I note, were provided by only a few, several associations, so the report on their work, only a few associations provided to the ministry. The report also includes the activities of local self-government units whose self-government and consumer protection are self-rule. Therefore, the units of local self-government are important.../incomprehensible/... consumer protection policies for the reason that Article 25(2). The Consumer Protection Act requires the establishment of an advisory body whose work is also attended by a representative of the Consumer Protection Association. The Consumer Protection Association shall appoint its representative to the advisory body of the unit of local self-government which shall decide on the rights and obligations of consumers if the association operates and has its head office in the field and local self-government. Inter-sectoral cooperation shall also be carried out through the work of the National Consumer Protection Council as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which discusses at expert level current consumer issues and whose representatives of the public bodies responsible for the field of consumer protection, representatives of the business community, representatives of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the academic community and representatives of consumer associations. The report also included activities during the Presidency of the EU Council, so the Croatian Presidency defined the issue of consumer protection as one of the fundamental tasks under the developing Europe priority. Several important events were organised during the chairmanship. This was a meeting of the Consumer Policy Body network on 29 May 2020, the items of the agenda of the meeting were the new European consumer strategy and the impact of Covid on consumers. One of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency at the time was the adoption of a directive on representative suits governing the launch of a process for the protection of consumer collective interests by qualified entities. During the Croatian Presidency, therefore, a political agreement was reached on the same and a representative suit directive came into force on 24 December 2020. And finally, when the National Consumer Protection Programme is drawn up for a period that comes in 2021-'24. A year that is in line with the new European Consumer Strategy, the emphasis is placed on the digital aspects of consumer protection and on strengthening consumer sustainability for sustainable recovery. One of the consequences of the Covid pandemic is the change in consumer habits in the purchase of goods and services where consumers buy in a much larger number via the Internet, so it is also necessary to ensure adequate monitoring to increase trust in online purchases. Efforts to exploit all the potential of buying through the Internet have been adopted by two, two directives. The implementation of these Directives shall be governed by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Justice and Administration. I may have been a little longer, but I needed you, to introduce you to this data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94748	We do. Time's up. You have several replicas, the first respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94749	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned that promotional activities and campaigns are important for the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme in order to distribute information on rights and protection to consumers. Camping in physical form is mainly being held in major cities and I hope that less environments will be included in similar campaigns, but it is good that the ministry has also provided a free consumer phone 0800 414 414, that the network site is running all for consumers szp.ta.hr, and it is also possible for citizens to request the necessary information via email. I believe that this is important and that it is, and I hope that the ministry will continue with such telephone and digital activities to make information available to citizens throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94750	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, we, the ministry, of course, opened up to inform consumers as you said three channels of communication. It was asked online, so we had in 2021 3.5 thousand such queries, what is important to say, were answered on the same day or within 5 days of the delivery of the request. We also opened a free consumer phone that works this Wednesdays, Mondays, or Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 to 14 o'clock. There they had about 6 thousand calls last year that were answered and of course, we also have a European Consumer Centre at the Ministry of Economy, we are bound to this European system. It is part of a network that should give consumers an advisory role in cross-border disputes when it comes to goods from abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94751	Next replica, respected representative Josip Begonja. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94752	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is clear that consumer protection associations are a very important part of consumer protection and I am interested in what way did you include consumer protection organisations in implementing a complex policy, so to speak, consumer protection during this relevant reporting period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94753	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. As I said in one part of this Report on the National Programme, our associations are extremely important and we especially work with associations and we included them in the implementation of consumer policy in a way that, therefore, we have the National Consumer Protection Council, the associations should have, therefore, 3 of their representatives most of these, participants. In addition, associations have co-financed their work with co-financed and counselling for consumer protection and associations have been co-financed, they have been able to use certain funds based on two project proposals, project tasks, and we are also doing education with associations, we have had 6 cycles of education associations where we have introduced them into this whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94754	Followed by a replica of a respected representative of Darka Sobota.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94755	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the HS, Mr Secretary of State, although you have, in your presentation, actually this proposal of the Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme, detailed the details of education and information, yet there are certain opinions in the public space that are not paying attention to consumers in that part. Can you give us more information about how much it really is and how the information effort has been given, and what are the actual thoughts of the period ahead?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94756	So what we want to say is that in the new Programme, I read the activities we had in the 2017-20 report period, what is important is that we in the new National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2021-2024, this one, we go with a new relationship to consumer education, we go with new funds to finance associations, so that, I think, in this way, we will achieve a certain and we will also help the associations that are dealing with consumer protection to be visible and we will try to educate consumers through our communication with these bodies in the Ministry on the problems that they will be, new technologies and new movements on the market that they will face.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94757	The next replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94758	Thank you very much, Vice President of the State Council. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So raising public awareness of consumer rights is one of the most important things and continuous education and information is one of the most important segments of consumer protection policy. The Ministry of Economy and Active.../incomprehensible/... and Sustainable Development is responsible for consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia. Can you tell us how the competent ministry informs consumers in their rights and through which communication means consumers can receive information, can contact the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94759	Well, thank you, then. I said I had three channels of communication with consumers. So most importantly, there's a system that's already been working for years, it's online communication. There are also free phones that are available to people from 10 to 14 hours a week, where people from 10 to 14 hours are constantly on the line and answer questions and we have this European system to the European Consumer Centre, this European Consumer Centre that should help our consumers who are unhappy and feel certain injustice in buying goods that is of foreign origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94760	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94761	Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions. According to the findings and reports of the Association Blocked and the Croatian Consumer Protection Association, it is said that debt that is obsolete is actually growing, meaning debts that are obsolete, which service providers or agencies send to consumers, which are illegal debts and claims. My first question is how is it not a topic that would interest the State Inspectorate and how does that increase? And my second question, so according to article. Law 26 on consumer protection, says local self-government should set up an advisory body that should therefore have a representative for consumer protection. My question is how is that, despite this provision, most local self-government does not have that representative, and who has, who does not, is not known because the Ministry has never conducted an investigation or investigation into these advisory bodies. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94762	I thank you, Your Honor. So, this second issue of advisory bodies, we have prescribed that the Consumer Protection Act that local self-government must organise such an advisory body and allow representatives of organisations registered in the area and local self-government, is an important thing to say, that they participate in the work through their representatives. We can't, given the law that defines local self-government, say what it's going to be. They shall, by their own acts, decide on the establishment of a council, so the Council shall decide on the composition of that advisory body. What we insisted must be a representative of local associations because it has the most interest to represent and know citizens, citizens' problems. And this second question, I don't know, I won't be able to answer it, you're probably talking about factoring in, so it's the subject of the mandatory relationship law, the factoring law, and I think it's also an executive law, so it's not the subject of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94763	Next replica respected Representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin. [[I know what this is about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94764	However, I will still refer to the replica of my colleague Troscott, so I quote "One of the objectives of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017-2020 was to provide the consumer with the right to a safe product or to information if there is an insecure product on the market", and now more or less all loans in the financial sector are potentially insecure products because they can be sold to debt collection agencies. We know all about this malpractice for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. But there is not a single word about this kind of uncertainty in this report, and yet there is no idea how this really big problem could be solved, there is no indication that it will go to the Law on debt collection agencies or, for example, to the law on debt collection agencies. to build a mechanism to protect insecure households by example in France. Well, I'd like you to comment on how that uncertainty on the financial market isn't even mentioned. Not even mentioned in your actions. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94765	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94766	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, all of us in some of our life situations were probably struck by the fact that we had some claims and that some bank sold it to someone and then you get a notice. So it's regulated by the transfer factoring agreement, the sale of the claim, and it's regulated again by the Mandatory Relations Act between the trader and the buyer. Whether this relationship will be their free discretion, the Law on Mandatory Relations says. I may be wrong, I agree that you are right, but at this point in our consumer protection law we do not intend to do so, and in the 2017-20 report period there was obviously no such situation, 2017-20 or no one has processed them, I cannot answer that now. I'm talking about the report he gave, so I've been putting out the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94767	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94768	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm gonna ask you a little different. Therefore, one of the major chapters in this topic related to the protection of the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for four years is the subject of financial literacy. And you were talking about financial literacy in your presentation, talking about how it was related to financial literacy for children in high schools who competed, were competitions and everything else. We really live in very interesting times where this financial literacy is extremely important, so I'm interested in one other thing that the ministry does through its own programs and everything else for the financial literacy of older people, not to tell the pensioner who will now face the problem when they get into 2022, which we all know will be significantly larger accounts that won't read or read anything else. which Ministry [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Is that where he works? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94769	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94770	Dear MPs, therefore, Mrak Taritash, I know that you always go to the heart of the problem with your questions and this is a good question to describe our people to prepare for the market events ahead, so it is not simple and cannot be answered unequivocally. If we have as I said we have open communication with consumers via on-line connections, so there are over 3.5 thousand annual communications answers, if we have a free phone, this is the system that we've built to communicate with consumers right now. I'm not saying that this is the final thing and I'm not saying that in the next period of 2021-2024 we're not going to have this problem on the agenda trying to figure it out in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94771	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94772	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The report discusses a series of actions to strengthen consumer rights, however, as you comment on the fact that only 12% of people in Croatia are familiar with their rights, and by that percentage we are actually among the lowest and weakest to know consumer rights. How do you comment or actually comment on this sad fact?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94773	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, you've commented on the European Commission consumer scoreboard if I'm not wrong where it says here that we have the highest number of subjects in 19 categories 12.6%. So we have the smallest number of subjects. That doesn't mean that people outside those 16% aren't educated and don't know the problem. We are not the worst, so in these two elements the smallest number of respondents and trust in online shopping, and in others since I realized at the consumer traffic light there are 19 categories for which to respond as a state. We're in the rest of the world on some kind of European average. So we are not the worst at the European Commission's consumer traffic light.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94774	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94775	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. We note that part of the report is also dedicated to the system of alternative consumer dispute resolution in the Republic of Croatia. What steps have you taken to improve the system in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94776	I thank you, Your Honor. So, as I said in my report, the peace centres were defined by the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution. We have therefore transposed the Directive on Alternative Dispute Resolution into the Law, and we have chosen certain bodies for alternative resolution that meet the criteria and assessment of acceptability, independence so that consumers can apply. In 2017, the ministry co-financed the work of 5 alternative resolution bodies of around 70,000 kuna per body. So that's how we're, I think we've formed that system of peace centers. How it's going to work and how it's going to work, we're going to see it over this period in 2021 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94777	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94778	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State in this report we have mentioned the activities of the Consumer Protection Association in the reporting period. I'd say only six associations. One of them is the Consumer Protection Society, the Sibenik Consumer, which operates and is financed from the budget of the city of Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County. It is said that all the activities they had in the consultation work, volunteers resolved different consumer enquiries via telephone, e-mail, personal arrival, those in collaboration with youth associations are also marked World Day. Members of society participate in local consumer advertising committees, etc. My question is how important it is and how much help can these local associations operating in the area of the unit of local, regional self-government, since we only have in the report the Consumers' Society Međimurje and the Samobor Consumers' Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94779	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So we have a situation that in 2021, so the ministry in this assembly has opened a tender for institutional support to associations. Because in one period we didn't have financial institutional support, and it was reflected in the work of some associations. So, we have opened a tender and in total, there have been 4 associations selected according to the National Foundation Management Board that conducted this contest we are here, so they consumed about 350 million kuna. What am I saying? We've got 220 and more associations registered at the moment. We've got about a dozen active ones, and that's a fact. That's the information we have for this past period as a final. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94780	Followed by the replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94781	Your Honor, it is unacceptable that there is not a single word in this report on supervision and on the activities you have spent under the Consumer Protection Programme towards citizens who have claims that cannot be paid. Therefore, we are talking about over-indebted citizens and households and whose debts have been sold to third parties to the majority of the claims collection agencies. You told my colleague that maybe it wasn't that kind of sales. 17 and a half billion kunas in this reporting year 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, have been sold to the Agency for the collection of claims, and you do not have a single word on this report. The CNB did not write a single sentence on this as part of the supervision of banks, including supervision of the sale of claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94782	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94783	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. I can answer you. So I agree with you that selling the claim is a big problem. I, in my time in the House, spoke against the proposal for a factoring law and what would happen to us. Someone suggested it very liberally then at the time said it was a rescue etc. I can only tell you that I can request a CNB report and send it to you. So I can't answer now why this report isn't processed, because we treated it as a factoring business, for the factoring law, but I can ask the CNB and I will do it and if you accept it as an answer I will send you a report from the CNB to see because I was personally interested, because I was absolutely against the concept of the factoring contract, or the factoring law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94784	The latest replica of the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94785	Dear Secretary of State as referred to in Article 24. The law on the protection of consumers by public services is also considered to be a distribution of natural gas. HERA is based on the Energy Act and some other laws, regulations, etc. the obligation to protect the interests of consumers or end-users of energy. How can then happen that Zagreb craftsmen, entrepreneurs get four to five times the bills without warning, without an annex contract. What was HERA doing here? Is that HERA a little asleep maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94786	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. It's an event which, therefore, is time-consuming, is calendarly beyond the processing of this report. So this is the 2020 report and you're talking about events that are now the most powerful and understand you etc. So, we should see with HERA what caused this situation. HERA is a regulatory body. So we call and say that in these cases damaged citizens have the right to seek, to address HERA and expect HERA and some answer and some solution to these problems. I'm on that fact that happened two months ago I can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94787	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is the registered Club of Representatives of the Most and, on their behalf, a respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94788	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. According to the results of the consumer traffic lights... research carried out every two years by the European Commission Croatia is the latest in the EU for consumer information and education, but it is also the last to trust public institutions and is the last to protect consumer rights, and we have such results from joining the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The national programme we are discussing today is being adopted for a four-year period, but operational implementation programmes have never been established per year, which means that this programme is a dead letter on paper. Representatives of the Consumers' Association at the National Consumer Protection Council have requested the development of operational programmes at the annual level, but it has never been achieved and it has been promised to receive this. Consumer Protection Associations sought financial support from the economy ministry, but did not receive it. All consumer alliances in the EU are funded by resolution ministries from 400 to 800 euros per year per consumer. For example, the German Federation has a 25m-euro budget of which 18m euros are funded by the Ministry of Economy, and our ministry expects volunteers to do all the work, to buy their own equipment, pay for travel, etc. From the detailed reports of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association, as well as the conversations held by MOST Club with Consumer Protection Associations throughout Croatia, we have come to the conclusion that consumer rights and dignity are systematically being violated in several fields and levels. The first execution and debt, other telecommunications operators, the third non-cooperation between local authorities, the fourth ineffective and slow activity of the State Inspectorate, the fifth problems with the material scarcity of the product and the sixth monetary policy of this leadership of the Croatian National Bank. Number one execution and debt. As we have identified the biggest problem facing our consumers are the problems with performance and debt sales to agencies. The sale of debt to agencies is an unfair business that is not regulated by anything and brings people into desperate positions, ends up on medications, psychiatry and suicidal procedures. Now this is the important part that you haven't answered. The government refused to regulate the part in the recently adopted new Consumer Protection Act and refused to adopt the remarks neither the Croatian Consumer Protection Association nor the opposition. The fact that people get diagnosed being on the edge and wanting to take their lives to the government, but not even the leadership of the CNB obviously doesn't mind when on the other hand the Vice Governor of the CNB comes to his house through the Agency to collect claims, then it's all by law. While people are mentally injured on one side under quotes, the reputations of the financial system are scavenging on our people's problems. The psychological diagnosis of our people, the dignitaries, the vulture's fairies. Suicidal thoughts of our people, the dignitaries, management jobs in the CNB who in no way earned except pure political exposure. The psychiatric treatment of our people who are in charge while the CNB dignitaries eat from the financial system from Masterchef's kitchen while people suffer the leadership of the CNB this created a cave of bandits from the most respected financial institution. The highest debt is due to banks, and more than 73 debtors are in a long-term blockade. In the register of the payment base at 31.1.2020, increases in the number of completed now amounting to more than 240 000 people, more than the previous month, but also in the previous period of last year and increases in both capital and interest have increased. Interests have grown so much that only out of interest on the due debt at the moment could one and a half Pelješki bridge be financed, or 6.7 billion kuna. The Croatian Consumer Protection Association and the Blocked Association state that it is happening in increased examples that debts sold to old-fashioned agencies have been sold to the Agency for the collection of claims. Debts in old age are illegal debts and claims, and many consumers do not know it exactly as they are not even aware that the limitation period is not equal for all claims. The claims, fees for electricity, gas and water, for example, go out of date for one year, and utility fees and reserves for three years. However, the claim will only be written off provided that the debtor is called out of date and called. The courts do not regard it as an official duty but ask whether the Consumer Protection Association should be aware of the official position of the Most. With teleopers, all consumers in all Croatian counties have problems regardless of where local communities live. And the biggest and most often problems of the consumer protection association are cited for increasing the price of tariffs without informing the consumer and amending the contract, non-contracting to consumers, wrong accounts, people do not have the speed of the internet they agreed and paid, our people have problems with the termination of contracts and crossings with other operators. And all of this is trying to deal with HAKO which, according to the county and regional communities, is cooperative compared to other communities such as HERA, HANFA, and HEP, not to mention. The Association of Consumers in the Karlova County states that HAK has no difficulty in achieving co-operation with them and is trying to reach the best solutions for consumers. What consumers are having problems with are teleopers especially with Telemach, who has taken over Tele2. They have at least 10 complaints about them every day. Consumers must send the same complaints 10 times and receive no answers. Three, non-cooperation between local authorities and municipal services in general. The big problem that all consumer protection associations operating in the Republic of Croatia have is that local authorities do not support the work of consumer protection organisations, although they are under the Consumer Protection Act. Some cities and municipalities assign funds to associations, but this is negligible in terms of needs and not all do so. So mainly volunteers work for consumer protection associations. Consumer counselling needs are growing. There is also a greater need for education, but local authorities are working very little on it. This Regulation shall enter The Consumer Protection Act determines that the representative body of the local self-government which decides on consumer rights and obligations is obliged to establish an advisory body whose work is also part of a representative of the Consumer Protection Association, and the local self-government unit will then make decisions relating to the protection and rights of consumers in a transparent, objective and non-discriminatory manner thereafter. Despite the provisions, most local self-government does not have a representative of the consumer association in its composition. And who has, and who doesn't, is unknown because the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for implementing the Consumer Protection Act, has passed laws, however, has never carried out a research on it or warned or punished local authorities which do not apply that provision. It is not surprising that this fact, given that the co-operation of the competent economy ministry with consumer associations, which has hardly existed in the past 3 years. Minister Horvat still held certain meetings, a fact, but Minister Coric, who will also very nearly possibly end up, not perhaps but safely in prison, no longer maintains the meetings. The associations asked to move all the way to the management ministry's jurisdiction because Minister Coric is doing everything to harm consumers' interests. Associations in the Karlova County are working very well with the town of Karlovac, but for example the municipality of Draganic is choking any initiative to help citizens and consumers living there. Ineffective and slow activity of the State Inspectorate. There are many problems to be addressed, but one of the biggest is the ineffective and slow activity of the State Inspectorate. All consumers affected by second-degree rights must address the inspection. People report daily that phone numbers are either busy or unavailable, that they do not receive any feedback and do not know when their problem will come to order. The situation has particularly deteriorated by online purchase and contactless delivery. Consumers often complain about damaged delivery products, traders blame consumers, and the inspection is not responding. Furthermore, the last thing the law in the Republic of Croatia does not have a defined deadline for repairing materials with a lack of production is already talking about a reasonable period, and it is known that this means in our terms that consumers sometimes wait 7 months for repairs. For those reasons, we can't. to accept this report. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94789	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94790	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, here we are in this already afternoon and evening report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme 2017-20. I have to admit today in early 2022 I have a feeling that it was in another life and that this report applies to some other people and to another story because of that, from that period not only do we not know the whole Coronal story anymore, but of course for the last week there has been one topic in this space, and that is the war in Ukraine that has really somehow turned our entire system of values or the whole system of problems upside down and we no longer know in which direction. But I'm reading this report in a way that we can see what we want in the future that we need to fix and what we need to do there when there's another report to see what we've done in this, in that period, and whether we've really made some steps forward. We have a few things from this report that are visible. The first thing that is evident is that information and education. Not long ago, the ministry had an open phone that was open every day, so it wasn't Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but it was every day and in one of the discussions that was here in this assembly during the debate my colleague on his cell phone included calling that phone, and that phone was turning around, calling, calling, calling, calling, and during the whole debate no one answered the phone. Then the secretary of state was there and she was aware of that fact. So, what exactly do I want through this report, what do I want to emphasize? So you have people all over, a whole group of consumers, and these are people older than you expect them to send you e-mails, and they expect all of this hill of stuff is not possible. I'm like a parliamentary representative, and I'm sure you're getting letters that are still written, so people write, photograph, and send them if it's their only hope that someone will see it and everything, so it's also about consumers. It's no accident that I actually turned the whole story around the way I asked the secretary of state. So, people of older age spend their time very actively, go to different courses, I won't even mention not knowing the courses of ceramics, painting, this and that, but they would also go to the courses of financial literacy because they are ideal victims of these kind of things. So, all that, I know that when I read the declaration on any product, I take off my glasses, so I read, at home, I have this raiser that I used to watch the cadastrian particles on the old copies of the cadastrian plans, and when I take the product, I really can't read the declaration. So how to expect older people when someone offers them something, when they knock at their home and offer something to be saved from it all, and when it's all done together, then it's a step too late and it's a special topic to start dealing with. We need to start dealing with how to protect them from all those insubordinations that are sticking around their necks and that are really going to find them. This is the report for 2020, so what did 2020 show? She showed that, that's, that's the year we somehow lost, that it's increasingly open to all possible bombings of online sales and all other things and that's one completely unprotected part, so that's what I'm saying, that one aggression towards them. At some point, they can turn around, some know, some don't know, and they're actually victims of a whole, whole story. I have to admit that I'm a consumer, and I feel like I know something, I've been texting, I've been texting or trying to get rid of something in HEP for six months, something that I'm like, let's see how long it takes, let's take it one step at a time, and when everything could be done by e-mail, they eventually invited me there, to come there, and then you know how it ended? So, you can't, you have to come in there, you can't go to the office because you don't get into the office, but you can on the port he calls you the phone office, so then you from that office phone from the port you came to talk to at the end I said and if there's any chance that we could make an email correspondence, then it can, but when you send an email then you can call me if you get me to then tell me that you sent me an email. It's a reality. That's what I met in a special story. It's a reality. So the subject of these factors and everything else that isn't here at all I won't, I'm sure that others will talk except me, and it's good that we don't all say the same thing, that we all don't repeat ourselves even though I have it here, but it's extremely important educational and financial literacy. It is extremely important that consumers really feel that they can be protected somewhere. It is extremely important that they must not be protected from any kind of system in any way, I would say regarding HEP, therefore related to public enterprises, related to certain municipal services. There are two topics that have been opened as topics in this reporting period, and it will open otherwise. Water supply theme, the theme that we have seen under the law, the way you get water, and that it will get bigger bills in water because the law predicted that good and bad must be united and where they are and where they are not. One of our units of local self-government wanted to make a referendum on the subject, so the minister in charge said he couldn't be on the subject of water supplying a referendum. I think we've all seen it because it's obvious that the future water will pay more. And the second topic is the subject that is also in this reporting period, which will continue to be the management of waste. accounts that will be tied to the waste. So these are the two topics that were in the reporting period, and we haven't solved them until the end, and they will continue, and I'm sure the characteristics of this 2022 will be the freakishness of the increased energy bill, so that there will be bigger energy bills that are no longer a mental no longer a noun, that this increase will, therefore, be an increase without this unfortunate war, this unfortunate war will only add a few more things. That we all get bigger bills is a fact, now it's just a topic of whether these accounts are going to be delivered in a way that we know how to read them, that we understand what part of the increase is and that we know how to calculate it ourselves or not, so it's a special topic and that's the topic that matters with this. And something that comes to an end is mine always, always happy to talk about it, and that's the role and importance of the inspectorate. April 1, 2019, I feel like I don't know before 10. We are all, complete or not all to be fair to the end, some inspections have remained in the respective ministries, the main inspection has become a state inspectorate. And here through the report we see the action of this state inspectorate in terms of consumer protection when consumers address them. And you actually see one other thing in this report. In fact, people don't trust the inspectorate, they feel that when they turn to them that their objects go into ambis and that it's as if you threw them out of that well no one drags that object out anymore. And that's one of the topics that needs to be taken into account, because I'm sure that, as part of what I've actually had in the main thought, that was the importance of educating and the importance of getting information that the role of the State Inspectorate in that part of education, the education of everyone in that process, because if enough people are not educated people just say okay, a series of water, they're unhappy. So what we inspectorate always see as someone who is a repressive body who comes and charges a fine. Let's turn things around a little differently, let's get the inspectorate to be someone who's being educated. In the protection of consumers, education is extremely important to you, it is extremely important that people have the opportunity to educate themselves to really know what their rights and opportunities are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94791	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94792	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017-2020. and ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for that period. As is known, the National Consumer Protection Programme is a strategic document setting out objectives, measures, priority areas and activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy for a period of four years. Any kind of organized action should have a mission or purpose in order to make sense at all. Thus, the mission of the National Consumer Protection Programme for that period was to make consumer protection in all sectoral policies complementary. The report shows that the achievement of the objectives as well as the achievement of the measures and activities set out in the national programme, structured in the report through a series of chapters, which is better informed and educated by consumers on their rights, the provision of rapid settlement mechanisms for consumer complaints and disputes, better enforcement of consumer rights through effective market surveillance, further development of product safety policy, strengthening the independence and representativeness of consumer organisations, and strengthening units of local and regional self-government in the implementation of consumer protection policy. The report also shows what legislative activities have been carried out during the reporting period with a special reference to the Presidency of the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia and the work of the National Consumer Protection Council. As a competent consumer policy resolution body, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has worked intensively to improve consumer protection policy through monitoring of European legislation and continuously transposed the provisions into the national legal framework. During 2019. The Consumer Protection Act has been amended to further comply with the EU acquis. The law makes it more clear that traders' obligations to highlight prices during special forms of sales as well as provisions governing the provision of public services and the conclusion of contracts by telephone because experience has shown a number of recommendations regarding the content of the contract concluded by telephone, and consumers have often disputed only the conclusion of the contract. Therefore, consumers must provide the traders with written consent to confirm their consent to the contract. As regards other laws that are in the service of consumer protection during this reporting period, it is important to highlight the Water Services Act, the Sustainable Waste Management Act, and the Public Waste Management Regulation, then the Housing and Consumer Credit Act, as well as the Payment Transport Act and the Electronic Money Act. To improve consumer information and education, a number of steps have been taken towards public awareness of consumer rights. In this intention, we heard from the ministry that two major campaigns were organised called "Together for Consumers" and "All in One Place" held in larger cities with the aim of bringing citizens and entrepreneurs closer to the tools at their disposal. The national strategic framework for consumer financial literacy for the period from 2015 to 2020 has also been adopted in the reporting period, on the basis of which four action plans have been developed to improve consumer financial literacy. This period marked a global and European week of money with the aim of improving the level of financial literacy and enabling children and young people and citizens to acquire financial competences. The financial sector surveillance was carried out by the CNB where consumer complaints were made possible by the CNB within its regular supervisory activities. The HANFA also carried out independent or in cooperation with other institutions during that period within its competences. In the reporting period, the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation of Payment Account Transfers and Access to the Basic Account has also been adopted, thus increasing the level of consumer protection in the negotiation and use of payment accounts, increasing transparency and comparableity of charges for services related to the consumer's payment account, and facilitating the transfer of the consumer's bill from one bank to another bank in the Republic of Croatia. Within its responsibilities, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data each year marked the European Data Protection Day during the reporting period of 28 January by organising consultations, conferences and lectures. In addition to participation in legislative activities, HOC participated in the part of information and education on consumer rights in the projects "Prepared for consumer rights and promotion of entrepreneurship". Every year, the World Consumer Rights Day was also marked in the reporting period by a large number of various publications by the ministry, the CNB, the HOC, the HANFA and HACOM. It is evident that several tools have been used to inform and educate consumers through a phone for consumers, then to set up a central consumer information system, to establish a European Consumer Centre as part of a network of European consumer centres and to launch a single consumer portal. With regard to the instruments of rapid settlement of complaints, disputes, the report highlights the instruments of alternative settlement of consumer disputes defined by the Law on Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution, which transposed Directive 11 of 2013 to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry is intended to increase the number of entities carried out, implemented, pardoned, public call for expression of interest in the selection of alternative resolution bodies among which the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Insurance Office, Profitest Centre for Peace, the Mediator from Bjelovar, the Court of Honor at HGK, the Centre for Mediation of the Croatian Mediation Association for Mediation, the Centre for the Croatian Association of Employers, the Court of Honors and the Centre for Peace of the HOK. In the area of product surveillance for consumers of non-food and food safety with the Customs Administration, the State Inspectorate, whose activities were aimed at strengthening the exercise of controls in the field of basic consumer rights in sales, in the purchase of products and services. In this regard, we have seen that over 52,000 inspection controls have been carried out during the reporting period, that nearly 12,400 infringements of market inspection regulations have been found, that appropriate administrative and infringement measures have been taken, that more than 10 thousand consumer representations have been received, which have shown infringements of the consumer's individual rights and other irregularities from the market inspection section. The Customs Administration destroyed more than 2 million and 500 pieces in the reporting period, 500 thousand pieces of counterfeit goods, took away over 620 thousand pieces of various goods suspected of violating intellectual property rights. The report also shows that over 40 000 information has been continuously worked in the reporting period to strengthen consumer rights organisations that have provided a total of more than 40 000 information on the area of trade, public services, performance and financial services through their consultations during 2017 and 2018. This report, as I have stated, also covers the period of our Presidency of the EU Council from January to June 2020 at the time of the launch of the Covida-19 pandemic, because we have defined the issue of consumer protection as one of the fundamental tasks within the Europe's developing priorities. Furthermore, one of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency was to establish a uniform, efficient and transparent system of collective legal protection of consumer rights, which is one of the most important segments of consumer policy, both the EU and the Republic of Croatia. The consequences of the Covid crisis have led to an expression of the importance of digitisation and the achievement of consumer information literacy because it is one of the consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic and the change of consumer habits in the purchase of goods and services, where consumers are bought more on the Internet than they were before the pandemic. In this regard, the report points out certain weaknesses in consumer rights protection, which in the new circumstances consumers have faced, and also points out the first steps taken by all stakeholders in the area of consumer protection, so the EU Commission proposed to adopt a series of legislative proposals aimed at regulating the digital environment of the EU single market and making it safe for consumers. Finally, the report shows that a number of stakeholders in consumer protection policy must continue to make additional efforts to minimise consumer uncertainty and fears in order to strengthen consumer confidence in their rights in the purchase of products and services. Of course, national and local authorities should also provide their contribution to the protection of consumers and to the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94793	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected MPs Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94794	... With an associate, dear and respected colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, the Honorable Chairman. Today, the exhibition said that World Consumer Rights Day, March 15, and when I looked, I saw that this year, it will be exactly 60 years from the day Kennedy presented the Declaration of Fundamental Consumer Rights in the US Congress. So we have 60 years of consumer rights, and I think that this is a significant date in which this report may still have to be better, if the report has not done so far, or it is not visible that a lot has been done on this issue, in any case, it is necessary to take a big step in the future, especially in those areas that have not been covered by various laws, which we have had opportunities to bring or talk about here. In particular, I refer to the Agency for Protection, for the collection of claims, so that users who are not and are not consumers of these funds are not caught by any protection. As for other rights, I think we have the lowest in the EU, it's been so many years in a row. We have the same laws, the same system, the same institutions as the other EU members, but that doesn't work that way and it doesn't work enough for us to have those consumer rights. Consumers are not sufficiently educated, too little time and resources are spent, and they also do not get enough information they need. They don't have anyone to call for help. This is a particular problem expressed by older citizens who have learned to look for advice and solve the problem in direct contact. Most of the organisations involved in protecting consumer rights no longer operate because their labour funds have been abolished. In addition, it also tells recent research that consumers still believe the most associations, then traders, and the state is in the last place. I say this as an argument that consumer protection associations should certainly enable the work that is being paid, which is the professional work of local self-government units, they have been given the legal obligation to provide them with jobs, spaces. However, volunteering is impossible to do in a quality way and so, actually, consumers and we as a society are actually losing to the quality of the service. The most common problem is the collection of public electricity, water, waste and telecommunications services. Consumers do not know what they are paying, and they are indirectly forced to pay for services they do not use. The most just are the waste disposal systems of single households and several household members. They're just some of the examples, lots of them. The problem is expressed in the fraud of service providers and traders. Consumers feel abandoned in this institutional confusion, lost because they must find a solution to their own difficulties. The economy ministry notes that they can be contacted by consumers who can talk to them on the free number 0800 414-414, but the number is only available three days a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and only 10 to 14 hours. Otherwise, requests can also be sent to the Central Information System for Consumer Protection, but consumers prefer direct contact. And for the comparison in 2020, the Ministry of Economy gave 9203 tips, while the associations gave more than 20,000 tips and figures to themselves as best they could. What was particularly important was that although we had the opportunity to hear in the report and read the report, there were several and many campaigns. However, yet not enough because the data says that only a few, only 12% of citizens feel that they know their consumer rights well, and we are again the last in the EU. What I would point out are inspection controls where the inspectors themselves, who are not enough, are not sufficiently educated in specific areas that they must cover especially with regard to Internet trade. Therefore, special education must be conducted that lasts. And we weren't ready to wait this time when we first bought everything online. There have been too few trained inspectors on the ground and there have been a number of frauds along the way. They are also unfairly prescribed for inspection and punishment, they are de facto the same for both large and small. So, retailers who are also once owners of mostly and owners of crafts or other forms of organization are in the same category as those who have hundreds or thousands of employees. That's what I've been talking about, and I think it should be made clear that those who have higher incomes must also be punished accordingly. So, as I said, the legal regulations for the claim collection agencies are insufficient. She de facto is really necessary and urgent to this country, because those who use money through credit as a slave are consumers. We're all consumers who take loans. What has actually been done all along and missed in protecting consumers, and what is promised is to especially protect young people through the ban on consumption of energy drinks. That's what we had the opportunity to hear as a promise from the Minister of Health. We're all consumers and children. And children are the most unprotected part of our society. We, like those who pass laws, must be especially careful that our children are protected and that we regulate the area as soon as possible and ban energy drinks. So ask that you prepare as soon as possible as you have promised that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94795	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94796	Thank you. Here I guess 50 times in this assembly I will talk about the shortcomings in the overall consumer protection framework in relation to over-indebted households and over-indebted citizens. I'm going to talk about it tomorrow when we have here and the amendments and additions to the Law on personal bankruptcy, because unfortunately we don't really have any framework to fight the over-indebtedness of households and citizens, or we don't have all those measures that some other countries have that I'm going to make tomorrow, which actually prevent long-term debt and that prevents really things like this that we're talking about here today, which is the sale of placements or unpaid claims to citizens of the Search Protection Agency. I say, we've talked about it so many times, we're just here to let you know and ask that in the Consumer Protection Act that we've had new money recently here, to limit the possibility of selling those claims that have a characteristic of consumer contracts, which is why they come from consumer contracts, in a way that such claims cannot be sold to third parties without consent, the consent of debtors and the informed consent of debtors. It is unfortunately in this assembly by the majority rejected. We also proposed a conclusion that went along with a consumer protection programme to put this whole section on the sale of debts to our citizens to the requesting agencies there, and that we eventually ordered the government to come within 30 days with proposals to amend the law among other mandatory relations laws to actually limit sales, I say again those plasmas that come from consumer contracts because it has its own logic, so why do we even have consumer protection, why do we have the Consumer Protection Act, why do we have this programme? Because the consumer and what the consumer definition stems from is the fact that contracts are actually either less value or value that is determined and that it is a weaker party, that it is a weaker party in a contractual relationship. So when a citizen negotiates with a bank, the weaker the party in this relationship, when he negotiates a citizen with a telecom, we know that the weaker the party is, in particular, certain categories of citizens. And for this reason we have at all this consumer protection Corps, and it is amazing that exactly where consumers are most vulnerable, which is the group that represents over-indebted households and citizens is not protected at all by a consumer protection programme, nor is it in this report, nor by the Consumer Protection Act, nor by the Consumer Credit Act, nor by there adequately represented. Now, I looked very carefully because it didn't take me much time of course because the text of this size is about what the CNB wrote for this report. Why the CNB? According to the decision on the sale of credit ratings, the CNB has an obligation to monitor, monitor the sale of these placements and as regards placements arising from consumer contracts. However, the seller, for example, banks have to submit a report to the CNB on the so-called ‘sales’. An assessment of the impact of the sale of plasma on the inter alia when they listed their risks, their reputation, etc., somewhere at the end of that sentence comes and analyses the impact of selling these placements on consumer protection. I am also interested in how it is possible that if banks selling claims have to give the CNB an assessment of the impact of such sales on consumer protection, so the CNB gets it, the CNB itself in that decision sets out the obligation to monitor it and not report absolutely anything about it in a report called the Consumer Protection Programme Implementation Report, you understand why it is wrong that there is no such thing in this report. At the same time, while the CNB should monitor it, which should be regulated by itself, and it is not, we have situations where the highest officials of that CNB and members of the council are buying below any value and price of the property that these claim-paying agencies have also received a wake for why by buying a placement from a certain bank. Yeah, it's not illegal, it's not illegal for him to buy it, it's not illegal for a 5 million-dollar villa to buy it, what was it, some funny number, 250,000 euros, right, I mean funny, I think, 5 million dollars buy it for 250,000 euros, so below all the cost. No, it's not illegal, but it's not illegal because no one's involved in it being illegal, it's not intended to be illegal, no one can see that it's a conflict of interest because the same one who oversees, who controls whether these plasmas that are sold can be sold, whether they are in accordance with that provision and decide not to violate consumer protection, the same one says that the plasma can be sold, sold and the same one that sells is profitable so that they buy a house worth 5 million for 4 times less, phenomenal and no one sees the problem in it, and he's still a vice governor and will be. At the same time, so this is not a small problem, this is a problem involving hundreds of thousands of citizens on an annual basis. This is a problem that concerns not only our citizens and which is not just a social issue, it is a very financial and economic issue because you have an industry worth 40 billion kunas Agency for the collection of claims and the market for the collection of claims and factors against which you yourself said you were 40 billion kuna worth of the market that is completely unsupervised, so it is carried out by the ordinary d.o.o. Here, you take 20,000 kunas, you leave tomorrow, you open up the d.o.o. And you're in charge of the claim, you buy from the bank cheap, you charge dearly. So I repeat, hundreds of thousands of people, 40 billion worth of market, we don't get letters about it in the assembly, not from reports, not from anything else, a note from Ben. The CNB has a report on this, tables of exactly how many claims were sold, how many of these were claims according to, to citizens, what the reduced value of this whole thing was, but for some reason they don't put it in this report or don't give it to you for this report. So, once again, I will point out that it is also necessary to regulate the demand collection agencies themselves and the way they treat citizens, to regulate the issue of international sales, cross-border sales of these debts because one day is your believer, but the next day someone from Slovakia, the day after that from Luxembourg, etc., etc. And you don't know who you owe it to. So we don't have that part in order either. But it should also be regulated in general that without information, without consent, consumers' debts are sold to third parties that can be any third party. So I think here's a bank that's probably gonna sell to the claims agency, but that agency can sell Periæ to a natural person who comes to you with a black van in front of your house and trumpets until you pay him or harass you in other ways if there's no obligation and no one's watching him. So we should even regulate that these debts cannot be sold without explicitly written consent by third party debtors, when they come from consumers, I repeat contracts. So until we do that, we won't just have a serious social problem, the long-term debt of our households, but we'll also have a serious problem with money laundering because we don't know where the agency has 20,000 kunas of core capital the next day 30 million to buy claims from the bank. Where'd she get it? Where does that money come from? No one knows and no one controls it. Money laundering plus tax evasion because all that money ends up in so-called. tax havens or tax havens, all that money is exported out of Croatia that they earn and go to some Luxembourg or some or some exotic islands. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94797	Next is a debate on behalf of Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94798	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What makes my ears mate in this debate is that citizens are not educated and that's why we have these situations that we have. Citizens don't have to know everything because there's still a state and its regulations that should protect citizens. I think we've turned the medal in a way to say that the citizens are not educated. I think that perhaps those who sell goods and services to our citizens are rather educated or know that, unfortunately, in this country, regulations can be violated, and then there must be some system that defends them and these should be consumer associations. Consumer associations have been quite said through and mentioned through this report, however, little needs to be seen how outside systems function and function. One way of financing associations can also be for the state to make a premium for each individual administrative or judicial procedure that the association receives for the detected offence or when something went for the benefit of the consumer, each positive procedure. Then there will be an interest and then the state will unload certain control mechanisms. It's out there, like. You also have agreements with the Energy Consumers' Association that make agreements with electricity distributors. And it's not just about energy, it's about gas. They just have to make it legal. And to make that possible then we have to have one real consumer protection program, a real program, when something is a program, then you have goals and deadlines. In the 2017-20 programme, de facto you can read a lot of rhetorical ideas, we should, we should, our vision is our mission, our mission is our vision and that's what we have. And the practice shows beyond what my colleagues were already talking about, the question of whether it was credits, whether it was debt-deposits or claims. We in Croatia have an open legal robbery that is not exclusively related to fraud that consumer associations would deal with because we also have the part that is totally legal and ultimately paid for by VAT. In one store, I will not name now, but I can simply have concrete evidence in Germany in the same network of shops that exists in Croatia, a box of paper towels costs two and a half times more expensive in Croatia than in Germany. The same coffee package that is sold so the same brand is identical, which here in supermarkets costs 50 kuna on Internet stores in Italy costs between the euro 99 and 2.30 euros, and it is not just VAT, and the minimum in these countries is slightly bigger than here in Croatia. So, what does that mean? This means that we have another way of making victims of something as much as we have and swearing on a liberal market, we have in Croatia de facto cartels. Whether through importers, whether through distributors, whether through sellers, but the fact is, unfortunately, we have them, and how we're going to contain it, unfortunately, I don't know. I don't know about the way we work. We'll write the papers, we'll have a vision, we'll have a mission, we don't have targets and we don't have deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94799	The following are individual debates of the respected representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94800	Thank you. Yeah, I'm just going to fill out a little bit more of what my colleague Bencic was saying because we think at the Green-Left Block Club that the problem with these law enforcement agencies is enormous and that we have to repeat from day to day on all occasions this problem that we finally get to the beginning of at least some sort of solution. So, let's say again, it's hundreds of thousands of our citizens, it's a market of 40 billion, so it's impossible that nobody in this administration is very interested. So to me, I understand Mr. Secretary of State who answered that it was a question of the Law of Obligation. We understand this report beyond the Consumer Protection Act in today's form and beyond the Consumer Protection Strategy because there is no resolution in any other document or indication of the resolution of this enormous problem of the demand collection agencies. From this problem everyone turns their heads, everyone turns their heads from the problems that day and night harass our fellow citizens and fellow citizens and the agencies don't fall under any supervision, earning millions, literally millions on our citizens' troubles, I think it's really time to not just talk, because we've been talking as the Green-Left block to the Parliament about it, but it's time to finally start and legally solve this problem, and that's why we thank you for being, Mr. Secretary of State, which is why you're going to ask the CNB's report, and at least remind them that it even exists. I mean maybe that vice governor, he knows, he bought that house for cheap money, he could maybe do it best. So, question. According to the report, is everything for consumers on the portal, where does it warn consumers about the agency for the collection of claims? Is that what the CNB pages do? No, I don't. Then, we have, the Report states that the Central Information System for Consumer Protection has become obsolete and needs to be improved, and perhaps it is time for problems with the paying agencies to also be put into the system and enable citizens to have information on the consequences of possible credits that are then in the event of the failure to pay the ransom and the terrible agency. There are therefore, in accordance with the National Strategic Framework of Financial literacy, now listed here, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Economy, the Agency for Education and Education, the CNB, HANFA, FINA, HGK, HUO, HUP, HUUP, etc., etc. I wonder if one of these institutions in this report has dealt with the problems of consumers who are harassing law enforcement agencies? Any of them? For now, as far as we can see by the laws and by this report, none, and that is indeed the last hour, but indeed the last hour. So there is no information whether what you, Mr. Secretary of State, Court of Honor, Center for the Peace of the HGK or the Centre for the Peace of the HUP or the Mediation Center for this, the Croatian Mediation Association, have ever had any items concerning problems with the collection agencies. Whether consumers had any information at all and whether they were referred to those bodies in order to eventually try to solve their problems there, but anyone, in warning to consumers, e.g. 6 The law of law, the protection of dignity in which there is clear conduct and insurance, will be kept in mind the dignity of the perpetrators, and that the execution be for him as little or less unfavorable as possible, art. 140 The Penal Code, in the chapter of intrusive behaviour, which reads, who, for a long time, follows or stalks another person or wishes to establish or establish unwanted contact with her or otherwise intimidates her and thereby causes anxiety or fear for her safety or the safety of her barbers, will be punished by a prison of up to 1 year, and provisions exist, but consumers do not know about them because, unless of course, if they pay the lawyer, they do not say anything about it. So I'm going to point out another big problem to the demand collection agency in the hope that finally someone in the government of the Republic of Croatia will hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94801	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94802	Dear all present. This is how, given everything we have heard today about consumer rights and disadvantages, when prices are being wildly introduced and new euro currency is being introduced, our people, citizens, additional protection and quality market surveillance are needed in order not to increase product prices, not only because of the change of the kuna to the euro, but also because of the possible association of market players. It is crucial to establish a partnership between state, consumer associations and citizens in order to prevent market players' self-will, i.e. those who want to make their own wishes, their interests to make a price. That there are problems, it also says that during the reporting period the State Inspectorate carried out a total of over 52 thousand inspections, and market inspection, sanitary, veterinary, agricultural and tourist inspections were included. Each 4th violation of the regulations was made from the domain of a tourist inspection, customs destroyed over 2.5 million pieces of various counterfeit items during the same period of time. It is therefore most important to work on informing consumers about their rights in order to bring all these strong legal provisions in line with the EU acquis, as well as all new protection mechanisms, not only to remain a dead letter on paper as many times so far. And that, in the end, is what we expect to take into account in future consumer protection, which is the protection of consumers of children, so children are the ones that we have to especially protect and re-emphasise, so with the ban on selling so-called energy drinks for young people, as well as, watch out for all other products that harm children and to preserve the general health of children, and in these days when we will celebrate 60 years of consumer rights, it is particularly worth looking at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94803	The final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be a respected representative of Darko Sobota.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94804	Dear Vice-President of the HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This afternoon, in fact, and tonight, it has been mentioned several times from this pay phone that, in fact, the report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017-2020, the National Programme and the strategy is actually a document that sets out the objectives and measures of the priority area and activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy for this period. The competent Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development as a body for consumer protection activities in the Republic of Croatia shall carry out activities related to the implementation of the political protection of consumers and the coordination of the work of all consumers. This report covers legislative and promotional activities, information tools, body work, supervisory statistics, activities of associations and units of local self-government and activities during the Presidency of Croatia, as well as recommendations. In this Report, it is detailed, but also proposed by the State Secretary, in fact, mentioned legislative activities, and I will only mention, so above all, the Consumer Protection Act, which was amended in 2019, but also during this reporting period, the laws on water services, sustainable waste management, the regulation on municipal waste management, which defines ways of managing public waste by collecting mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste. The laws and implementation of the EU Regulation of Parliament and of the Council have also already been adopted, addressing the issues of unwarranted geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination, but I will also mention the law implementing the regulation in cooperation between the national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection rules. A lot has been said and it has been well written, in fact promotional activities and campaigns, so I will mention only these two largest, 2017 and 2018, together for consumers and all in one place that is also mentioned in this Report, but it is worth mentioning, however, that every year the World Consumer Rights Day in Croatia is marked, but also a series of round tables and workshops. What is especially happy is that students from primary and secondary schools are included through competitions, for which the Ministry of Economy should be included and congratulated. During the reporting period, a large number of publications have been issued precisely for consumer information, primarily on their rights and their protection on the global market. Several tools were used during the reporting period. Phones already mentioned for consumers, the Central Information System for Consumer Protection, the European Consumer Centre and the Single Consumer Portal. A lot of attention, including in the debate, has also contributed to the measures of the Ministry of Economy, an open call for expression of interest in the selection of bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution. All eight are mentioned during today's presentation. The statistics carried out and the State Secretary on behalf of and the Proposer described in detail the total number of inspections, but not only inspections, state inspections, but also the surveillance and agricultural inspectors, veterinary inspections, the control of the Customs Administration, the CNB, the presentation of the number of consumer complaints received per year, but also HACOM, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, and HERA. And finally, let me just mention the activities during the Presidency of the EU Council, where Croatia is one of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency or the adoption of a directive against representative claims being arranged, which regulate the launch of a process for the protection of consumer collective interests by qualified entities, which represent the interests of a greater number of damaged consumers. And so that directive has been passed. And here, I'll just say in the end, that the HDZ Club will support the report's proposal to implement the National Consumer Protection Programme for that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-02-0.u94805	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. ... We'll vote when the conditions are met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 p.m. Final proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 231. Good night, everybody. Session interrupted in 19.50 hours.
