ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u102784	She will now speak to a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, an independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u102785	Ladies and gentlemen, last week, Boris Johnson, Prime Minister of Great Britain, resigned as head of the conservative party, and announced his resignation as prime minister when a new party chief was elected. We also learned that the President of the Supreme Court, Radovan Dobronic, has resolved the judges of Damir Kos and Marina Mrcela, their functions within the Supreme Court. The decision was addressed by some media with a defamation campaign against President Dobronic, which was preceded by the Jutarnji List. The morning is normally owned by the Hanžekovic family, which has acquired its wealth in the torture of Croatian citizens who have been abused precisely by the Hanžekovic family through anti-civilisation and anti-Civilisation Law. Johnson's resignation and campaign against Dobronic prove the consequences of functional justice for one society, and give every Croatian citizen an answer as to why he is experiencing injustice in his daily life and why his standard falls apart. Because Boris Johnson would never resign if he hadn't been investigated for his scandals, and that decision was not forced by his party colleagues. The message is clear, everyone is responsible for their actions independently of the function he acts. Boris Johnson had to pay the fine for taking part in the parties during the lockdown, and the police investigated him. When the system works and the judiciary works according to the law then there is also political responsibility and a culture of political jurisdiction. No one in their right mind argues that the judiciary in Croatia is a fundamental problem of society. The judiciary does not operate under the law but serves the powers openly, judges are deluding the Croatian public with their behaviour, I will only mention cases of drunkards of the Split judges, and the scandal of Judge Turudic. The result of legal uncertainty and selective action of the judiciary is the lack of foreign investment, small economic activities, high taxes and, of course, unprecedented corruption. If the judiciary in Croatia acted in accordance with the constitution and the law, most political powers would have no public function at all. It is certainly not that Plenkovic would not be prime minister after the Borg case, Ministers Paladin and Butkovic would never be ministers in view of the affairs they had prior to their appointment. The leadership of the Morning List, as well as the good part of the media, would also be due to open participation in corruption. In the case of media corruption in Austria, and the consequences for actors, we have seen what functional justice means. The mutual protection of politics, justice and media in Croatia is open and brutal. The morning paper defends Judges Mrcelu and Kosa, persons who have begun their careers as prospective communist perpetrators. That these two gentlemen are at all judges is a defeat of justice and an insult to all the fundamental values of the EU because in communism, the judge was not supposed to uphold the law but was doing the will of the Communist party. These people don't have professional ethics, they're simply enforcers of power regardless of what those powers are called. The case for Judge Kos is 11. After the break-up of communism in his verdict, Sandičić claimed that it had not been proven that the marriage had been carried out by political liquidations, what was undoubtedly proven throughout democratic Europe for Judge Kosa was not worth it. Such a man is the judge of the highest court in Croatia, can anyone rational expect the fair actions of such persons as the judges Kos and Mrcela? At the same time, we have Judge Dobrinić, who became a judge in 1996, so he had no communist socialization, and by his verdict in the case of Franak, he proved that there are no powerful men for him, but there are laws for him. That's the kind of person the Morning List impals on a pillar of shame. This situation must not surprise anyone, the media who have accepted being the badigards of the corrupt system prevent any change and panicfully fear the rule of law because in this case they are existentially threatened, but the interest of the vast majority of Croatian citizens is a regulated state and equality before the law. In the case of Boris Johnson, we've seen what functional justice and independent media mean. The Croats are not less valuable than the English, and therefore we are obliged to establish the rule of law in order to bring our Croatia to the path of success and prosperity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u102957	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mario Kapulica, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u102958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs. July is the month when in some ways it draws a line in the belief that we are soon moving with new topics and discussions on solutions that will be in the interest of Croatian citizens and at the level of their expectations, and these expectations are justified and numerous with many uncertainty that we are going to meet because of an incredible global crisis that will not stop, which will deepen, which will take their toll around the world, in the EU and in our country of Croatia. And that is why it is important that we Parliamentarians send and send a constant message of seriousness, consistency, consistency in finding the best solutions. And that what we do, those who look at us see something in what we do more than rhetorical locks and bombers, to see some logic of political action, no matter where this political action goes and what each of us stands for, and there's a lot of illogicality. It is not logical that the Croatian interest in entering the euro zone and Schengen is logical for the Croatian government, logical for the parliamentary majority, logical for the EU but not for part of the opposition. These are not issues where we need to look for a party profit. These are issues in which we should look at the general interest, because when all relevant European institutions say that Croatia is ready to enter the Eurozone, then it is not logical to hear from this speaker Croatia is definitely not ready to enter the European zone. That, in someone's opinion, is good or is not a different matter, but Croatia is prepared by all criteria. If we were to get rid of the exaggeration we are constantly witnessing, we might be more serious in all other topics, since there are many inescapables. It is unserious for the media to declare the whole part of the corrupt system, it is unserious to call Croatia because it has joined global sanctions against the Russian aggressor. It is unserious to declare crazy people who say that we will all have to bear the burden of the crisis, and in the same sentence mention Germany and an example of how they are just facing this crisis in a way that they will all have to bear the burden of the crisis. It is unserious for all of us who will soon vote to ratify Sweden and Finland's NATO entry to declare traitors and traitors, and then give strong support to the same Sweden and Finland for joining the same NATO in Madrid. It is unserious when the president of the Homeland Movement, who we see has problems with both fences and employment, has inherited problems with bottlenecks and CDs, says his taking over of the party is the last train for the Croatian people. And when his former secretary-in-chief says about a party hanging around the electoral threshold, it gathers everything that Croatia breathes. That's unserious. It is also unserious when the president of the SDP who says he doesn't really know where he lives, and his party taori at the historic minimum says I'm ready to be a candidate for prime minister. Because if in the SDP it was really a priority to put a foot up your ass to the one who couldn't do his job, the SDP president's quote would probably have already felt that leg. And this is how we will take over the space of social democracy in Croatia for those he gave that leg while he deals with Joseph Broz Tito and his square in the city of Zagreb. And it is not good that the president who won the state, who won the election on the promise that there will be no opposition from the authorities at this time, I am the only opposition to the current government. It is not good for Croatian citizens or opposition parties or for parliamentary democracy that does not know such a situation. And it is not good to support him in this as a colleague from the Homeland Movement recently did with his statement that in Milanovic we have an excellent counterweight growing beware of the radicalisation of the Croatian Democratic Community. What radicalization? What counter weight? Well, it's not the role of the President of the Republic of the esteemed colleague and colleague to be a weight on the scale of parliamentary relations. In this respect, it should have a bound eye and a necessary dose of impartiality, as the Constitution and the laws of this country require of its position. Well, when they're so cool about HDZ, the international community, Germany, Britain, Austria, the NATO alliance. These are no reason for joy, as counterpart Ahmetovic said, that he is glad that at this point we can and the SDP together have more than HDZ. It was in January. They don't have any more today. It's a rare moment of happiness that won't happen again. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103047	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103048	Respected without a political obligation to account for government to citizens, it is questionable whether there is even democratic authority in a country. The credibility test consists of the government explaining its work, its decisions and being exposed to a critical court and a critical assessment of the public. We're used to HDZ authorities not having that kind of credibility. We went through such a state in silence and drowned at all their thieving, we see where that led us. The first step in winning HDZ starts by asking questions, so I'm going to ask some questions today. In the light of all the respect for legal obligations and rules and conditions resulting from international arbitration, and thus those provisions on the confidentiality of the HDZ procedure must stand before the public and answer a few questions publicly. MOL has been in the media offensive for some time now, so even our prime minister can't play dumb anymore. It may be possible to understand that the finance minister resigns without explaining to the public why he did it and the reasons behind it, however, it does not change the fact that there is a certain continuity of the government. Therefore, the prime minister above all, and besides him, someone from the Ministry of Finance's portfolio, along with the minister of justice, the economy minister and the minister of energy, should answer the following few questions. First of all, this authority is obliged to present to the public all the contracts, all the memos, but also all the silent and others under the table agreements that have been concluded with MOL over the past few decades, i.e. tens and more years. Furthermore, they should give a very clear and convincing answer to the question of how they think in the conditions of the galloping global crisis caused by Russia's aggression on Ukraine to protect Croatian energy interests, but starting with the fact that Croatia has both its oil and its refineries currently serving the interests of Hungary and not the interests of the Croatian state. Then we need to answer the question whether they are really Croatian, especially the HDZ authorities during the period during which Martina Dalic was acting as finance minister, and in some later period the Minister of Economy, and her husband, throughout that time, had indeed taken over the role of one of the members of the INA Board to protect Croatian interests. They should then answer the question why no amount of 5m euros in bribes was charged by Robert Jezic, or used in the case of Ivo Sanader, i.e. specifically why the Croatian authorities did not take, and what they did not take or deliberately failed to take into account the forced collection process. The question should then be answered why the criminal application was rejected by HANFA in 2011 in which, as a competent regulatory institution, HANFA accused MOL of manipulating the market, giving away business secrets and concealing the fact that the Hungarians misused the privileged information they had at their disposal and that, at all, by the unusual transfer of jurisdiction from the USKOK to the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, there was such a store and ultimately, they have to answer the question why Croatia lost this arbitration dispute. The fact is that arbitration has spoken something that undermines the Croatian judiciary. There is one contradiction that is not sustainable, which is that at the same time we have a final verdict of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in which the President and Executive Director Zsolt Hernadi is legally sentenced to two years in prison, based on the testimony of Robert Jezic, who the arbitration panel says is inconclusive, controversial and therefore that arbitration shows deep doubts about his reliability and credibility. These two claims are mutually haired and we cannot at the same time have a reliable judiciary and trust in Croatian power, because these two claims simply do not stand. The prime minister can no longer be made mute and answers to these questions but should have been given over the past few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103195	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103196	Honorable Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukaric, honored gentlemen, ruling both respected and dear colleagues of the opposition. We are reading the news, Russia is closing North Stream 1, headlines are screaming, Europe in fear, Germany has announced a restrictions, and now you will forgive me on this without any pathetics, I am still in politics only 2 years old, here in the parliamentary benches sitting, I don't know here from the Homeland Movement advisers of former President Josipovic, here sits mayors, mayors, mayors, here sit the people of ministers, if you can explain to me, if you can explain to me, so you see me speaking from the heart as always, so Croatia has introduced restrictions to Russia, to be quite clear, attack on Ukraine, it is clear that all of us here have made it clear, but we have introduced restrictions, Russia has sold gas to the Asian market and other energy companies, and the effect for Croatian people is that inflation has exploded us, that Croatian citizens are barely joining the end and that we have big problems and the crisis that we have introduced you incrist and now we have been asked by the mayors, and we have been able to explain that we have been able to talk, because of the Ministerstors, and we have been able to explain that we have been able to speak of the mayorststs and we have been able to talk, and we have been able to talk about the state of the state of the state, because. The second thing that is very important, the culture minister says comes the crisis, it came out yesterday and says everyone has to bear the burden of the crisis on their backs, I'd be ashamed to say that I'm in her place. The minister has a salary of 18 or 20 thousand kuna, her husband is employed at the Ministry of Culture, the minister has reported that she has saved almost 90 thousand euros, her husband has reported that he has saved a million and 700 thousand kuna, the apartment has worth 900 thousand kuna, so who's crazy here, so you gentlemen have seceded, it's a link, so... The conflict of interest, you have seceded from the Croatian reality, from people who live their everyday life, so how do you have the impudence to say that we wear the same and that we should bear the burden, and millions in accounts, millions of kuna apartments, salaries of 40,000 kunas together in the family, but we will bear the burden of Croats and Croats, so what do you want people to go crazy, to go out into the streets? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, at least then, to be clear, since you're going to hunt me down for every word, honest work, honest work, let people make millions, I don't mind that we support entrepreneurship and open market, anyway, but who's crazy about it. In Osijek I met a professor of mathematics at the square, so he approached me and we talked for a good 20 minutes. There's a salary in the class for 30 years, so I'm sorry about your pension a little less than 4,000 kuna. Is this the burden that our teacher must carry on his back? So how are you not ashamed to speak like that and treat the Croatian people? Well, I'd be ashamed to be out on the street, ashamed to come to the store, sitting in a bar. And then some people do a lecture on teachers, send them e-mails, say I shouldn't know all 5.0, so it's best that those who are in top positions of the power to have the children in advance have all the 5's given from the 1st grade to the end of college, that they don't even learn anything. and teachers in Croatia work you know for what money. We've been working, 16 years I've been working in education and teachers have a status in society that they're not worth. Some people write on my face and say so there are among teachers, so there are parents who aren't for keeping sheep, only he would give them a cat, and they wouldn't give it to a cat, so they have kids and what now. The cat wouldn't give them how bad they treat their children, how they're completely, totally not for responsible parenting, but they have children. But the greatest number of teachers is worth it, doing their job, struggling, trying, raising our children to eventually come into retirement starving and not knowing how to end it eventually and while they're working at school if there's anything 7, 7.5 thousand kuna, so it's a shame. I implore you by ruling, your responsibility is greatest if you have the legitimacy to manage the state, so tell your colleagues to land, to be humble. Everyone's pride leads to a fall, no matter what someone who's in a position of power doesn't see it right now. May God help us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103277	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103278	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there has been insufficient attention to climate change related to the sea, particularly the Adriatic Sea, although the sea and the main driver of weather change and climate change. The sea is often also popularly referred to as an air conditioner that regulates and controls the temperature on earth because changes in the sea automatically affect, of course, climate change. The news that we could see these days is that Mljetu measured 30 degrees, and in Split 28 degrees of sea temperature, at the beginning of July. So this should really be a serious concern for us and finally start a concrete action against climate change and the warming of the Adriatics whose consequences can be catastrophic. Since 2000 alone, the average temperature of the Adriatic has increased by 1.5 degrees. Scientists, scientific data tells us that there is virtually no help for us because the process of warming the sea is unconstitutional and irreversible, therefore, irreversible but we can mitigate it and scientists are constantly warning us again and again and again. If we continue to live in this style and be irresponsible, we will destroy the sea because we are not watching it at all, and it is one of our main economic resources. They suffer sponges, corals, fish species that live in biocenosis, it's about habitats that need a maximum of 15 degrees, and now 50 meters deep is not cold enough, temperatures can be up to 24 degrees. Excessive warming of the sea leads to a number of problems for fish species because planktons are extinct, bacteria that cause tissue necrosis in fish disappear, entire colonies of valuable plant species disappear, algae disappear, new invasive species emerge, our indigenous species disappear. Here, for example, there is almost no papalain in the northern Adriatic anymore. The emissions of harmful gases are not the only cause of this dangerous warming of the sea. This, of course, also contributes to mass tourism. The concreteization of the coast, the aquaculture sites that are built too shallowly at too low depths, and they are great contaminants, about microplastics, of course, not to mention. Waste is a particularly big problem for the sea, so-called The supply of the coast, the expansion of already existing beaches are one of the gray devastation zones of our coast is one of the enormous problems. We have an example. in Makarska, Crikvenica where instead of prescribed 2% of construction waste, so-called silently on the shore feed put 40% of the silence. 40% and no one. We're wondering where the inspections are, where's the coast guard? Unless we urgently and resolutely turn to measures, if local communities, local self-government units and citizens themselves do not worry about the coast and the sea, the danger of the Adriatic becoming a bar in 10 to 20 years. And that's what scientists say. And they're warning, there's no situation 5 to 12 anymore, but unfortunately seconds before the disaster. Since we have allowed tourism to be almost the only force to fill our budget, it is surprising to what extent the state has done almost nothing to protect the sea. And over-building and concreteization and spilling of construction material into the sea and destroying greenery and deforestation in too many shallow areas, all these are situations where the state has its laws, inspections, actions, can very much act and stop the destruction of this valuable resource that feeds us dominantly. And so now, a second before the disaster, as scientists say, it's time and it's necessary that we all finally sober up together and figure out, this way we can't go on. It takes urgent action and states with its tools, but each individual, each of us, to protect the Adriatic Sea as much as we can. Both the Adriatic Sea and our entire planet, it is necessary to accept the imperative that we need to change and do everything possible to try to stop climate change at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103491	In the name of the Association of State Movement Representatives, the honourable representative of Stipo Mlinarić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103492	Three months ago, in this assembly, I addressed Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic for a current class with a very specific issue, when the Republic of Serbia will sue Serbia for compensation for tens of thousands of people who were prisoners of Serbian concentration camps. In order not to stay on the floor, she told the prime minister just handed the accompanying letter containing concrete arguments, which clearly show that former campers have the right to compensation. Although he had 3 months to answer and I believe that the topic is well known to him, Andrej Plenkovic devoted everything to three seconds by telling me that I would get a written answer to the question. After an end of 30 days, the answer was not received, so the president of HS, whom I now commend this way, sent to the government and its president a haste, noting that I must be answered within 7 days, and from this haste after the end of the period, an additional month has passed, but the government and its chief, Andrej Plenkovic, are still ignoring my request, but also the haste of the president, which is humiliating for this honorary home, and it is insulting and humiliating for all Croatian campers of whom many unfortunately have gone to this world, so they will never welcome justice for the troubles they have been going through in the territory of the state that we are today trying to tell us that it is no longer hostile and that, as such, it must enter the EU. If our very important prime minister, who is underestimating the parliament with his ignoring attitude, and he should at least formally be in charge and insulting the campers among whom the most Croatian defenders without whom he would certainly not be sitting in the Banski dvors today, then his credible reminder could be the action of the DORH and Croatian services that arrested one of our tormentors from Sremska Mitrovica, the major of the enemy JNA Vojislav Medic, the investigator and KOSovec a month ago. And while at least a part of the institutions suddenly woke up from the winter sleep of Plenkovic I guess what signal from Brussels to answer my otherwise very simple and concrete question. From this place I will not be offended because it is not my style, it is not my habitat and I leave it to his colleague with Zrinjevac who has already called him a traitor, a enterprising, a burning badger and many other epithets, but I will therefore patiently wait for Mr Plenkovic to place himself in one of the categories offered for which the proposal came from Pantovich. Despite everything he has never done to the prime minister, I again urge him to respond to me and, along the way, I am showing perhaps a naive hope that Plenkovic's silence is not due to the fear of a possible reaction from the coalition partner of the SDSS or to worry about the European future of Vucic's Serbia. While Croatia is losing billions in arbitration disputes that we knew from the beginning would not end well for us, even though some smart-ass assured us otherwise, and even because of that, they brought down their own government, they are of course Mostovci. I can see the younger Bridges don't know, so let them ask Thunder and Petrov. Andrej Plenkovic acts as a drunk billionaire, interpreting that we could have gone even worse, while refusing to sue Serbia for destroyed Croatian cities, villages, churches, kidnapped cultural treasures, killed civilians, women and children. With his boastful and arrogant and ignoring attitude, he shows that he is not interested in compensation for the hardships that passed through Serbian camps were experienced by Croatian campers and defenders with whom HDZ depended on the situation only the primordial whales. Here from this place vice president of the assembly don't be mad at me, you have years from me, but here I call on the president of the Jandrokovic Assembly who is in good shape here on Monday at 9 a.m. if he wants to strike a hunger strike for me and him in front of the government that Prime Minister Plenkovic finally answers one question that bothers tens of thousands of people who die on average at 53, here I call him, I won't invite you for years, but he's very happy with me and he'll strike smoother if he wants to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103596	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will now speak the esteemed representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103597	Thank you, Vice President. The global economic crisis, pandemic, postcovid problems, inflation, the war in Ukraine actually only brings unfortunately a higher level of economic inequality and a higher level of poverty, so as well as best and know Croatian citizens where the risk of poverty is, and I will say almost 30%. Could it be time for some new socioeconomic Croatian agreement or some new social economic concept, could there be a conversation about something that began in the 17th century, as Charles Fourier, a socialist, a utopian, as even some liberals wrote, as Thomas Spence, and in fact it is not a new concept anymore, which is actually called universal income. So some EU countries, so both Finland and Spain and Germany, in particular Spain, introduced one of the basic income versions, hence the universal basic income, so the Spanish government a year ago, a year and a half ago, for 850 thousand households, therefore introduced a cash compensation of 1000 euros. Of 1,000 euros, yes, therefore, in this very state, which is unfortunately still multiplicated in today's day. We can open a debate here whether universal basic income may violate some social state postulates in Croatia, and we can also answer that the leading left utopian thinkers, so today in Europe Thomas Pikety and let's say Varoufakis also advocate in some versions the universal basic income because the universal basic income must be and therefore it is called universal, must actually be the right of all, and especially those most threatened that I can, I will say, survive this year and start next year because whether superficially, whether we are studying the economy in depth and if we are looking at what is happening in the US and what is happening in Germany, so all of them hint, we all hint at a recession and now if you are at all descending and if you are a household of some middle income, so you yourself know that your basket may actually be from some of those basic 100 euros increased to not 150 euros. And we also have to take care of something called the 4th Industrial Revolution, where I will also tell us according to relevant research, which the Croatian Employers' Association is conducting means that it says that 50 to 60 thousand employees in Croatia will probably remain for business precisely because of digital transformation, precisely because of automation, because of new technologies, so this happened through the 1st Industrial Revolution, will also happen through the 4th Industrial Revolution. Of course, here is the question of how and how to finance, therefore, one of the versions of the universal income, so the answer here is simple and it's just a little bit that people are thinking, and it's actually a progressive tax for you, so I'm not just saying progressive income tax but actually a progressive tax on something that most in Croatia would introduce, but it's afraid, so it's a progressive property tax, so where you don't charge that property where you live or your first real estate, it's given you a cottage or a cellar or a tavern, but it's actually charging what's extra, which is the second, third, fourth real estates that in Croatia, therefore, have rich people, there are. Now again, it is crucial and my fundamental question to which this burden of crisis will be overcome, will be passed on to those who are here in Croatia and Europe at the risk of poverty, which is almost 30% of the population, so the OECD source or still some things will change through a new social consensus, and may, unfortunately, be taxing extra profits from Telekom, business banks, multinational corporations, whether they may start with progressive property taxation or, unfortunately, they will all come to the back of the poorest who pay the same VAT as we do, and we do not have the same income, which is extremely regressive tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103669	On behalf of Cuba, representatives of HSS and RF will now speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103670	Good afternoon, everyone. I would a little about a secret, quiet, non-obtrusive institution that is not very much spoken of here, a strange name Croatian National Bank, a truly enigmatic name, a people's bank. We all know that this is a reserve position for HDZ players, personnel when they wear out on our minister scene to guide them there, so there's nothing to worry about future acquisitions, maybe he'll be one and the last minister wouldn't be anything weird. However, according to everything that this bank does, or in the way it is isolated from the democratic influence of the people by virtue of the privileges that they attribute to themselves and assign employees to the CNB, and in particular its leadership, this bank has nothing to do with the people and in fact its better name would be an anti-national bank. According to the CNB Act, the fundamental and primary objective of this institution is to maintain price stability. For the past year, inflation has been booming, and in the CNB they say they can't do anything, they can't affect what they're required under the law as a fundamental goal to ensure that inflation doesn't grow. But even that is not enough for them, but in the context of such high inflations, we are pushed at all costs in the euro zone at least by a number of economists and even Nobel laureates like professors. The arrivals warn that this is not a good idea, they also warn what is clear to laymen that now entering the euro zone is extremely critical, that the importance of managing its own currency is of special benefit in the situation of a future economic crisis or recession. But the leadership of the CNB does not, of course, worry about inflation, or recession, or the loss of monetary leverage to ease the crisis and the fairer distribution of its burden. And why isn't that what they're worried about? So, given the receipts they make, which are thick above receiving the rest of the public sector, inflation of course does not affect their standard, and when it is estimated to affect then they simply raise their salaries because they are a completely autonomous institution. Autonomous for your own benefit. In short, an institution with a position of state in the state cannot be called a national for the same reason. They are not even interested in recession because there are never any recessions for them, so they want to give up the last levers that are only potentially pressured to work their business in the interests of the people and to run such monetary policy. They want us to give up our own currency so that we can simply say in the upcoming recession, we can't do anything about it, there's nothing important about us anymore, and at the same time they keep their 800 employees' privileges in which there's nothing to interfere with either the people or his political representatives. The experience of Greece with which we share despite differences and many similarities warns how important it is to have our own currency in the situation of economic recession and the huge increase in public debt. Greece, because it was in the euro, could not use its own currency to ease the crisis and the only thing left was the austerity measures imposed by the EU and the European Central Bank, which produced a real humanitarian disaster, huge unemployment, drastic wage cuts and pensions and social transfers, a significant increase in mortality. According to numerous indicators, a new major economic crisis will mean a return to high unemployment, a fall in wages and pensions and a rise in public debt for a year to two years. In this context, giving up your own currency means shooting yourself in the leg, but the CNB does not shoot itself in the leg but, of course, at the feet of its own people. This is done and pushed by people from the CNB who are politically not responding to anyone produce huge political, economic and social damage. Until conditions are created for a different policy, it is a matter of symbolic credibility to change the name of this institution and abolish the adjective "national" from its name, so the Workers' Front will send a proposal to the Assembly to rename the CNB as "Croatian Central Bank". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103712	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will speak for the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103713	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we recently discussed the state budget or the budget rebalancing, I asked why we did not use state property in economic, social, cultural and other purposes that would create value, new employment, and therefore the revenues for the state budget, and I got the answer that the state definitely is for such activities and I got the answer that definitely not only needs to think but also act, but these are just empty words. Today I'm going to talk about Muzil, for those who don't know it's about a pulse peninsula that stretches to 180 acres and makes up 1/5 of the city of Pula. For a long time, the army, first the JNA, then the HV that had left the area, and now long ago 2007, had passed for 15 years. Ever since that big surface and the great potential stares blank and collapses. Although there was, and there is still a desire of local self-government to put this particular area into a function of sustainability of the economy, sport, culture and other activities of the states, unfortunately there is no hearing, and it is this state that must act in the sense of taking certain steps to activate the property. In fact, one such large area can absorb more than a billion kuna investments, create new jobs, tourism and cultural facilities, all of which would benefit from residents across the city to the state, but unfortunately there is no movement. I recently asked the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and Property what is happening and if there is any movement, of course there is no movement, and the answers are almost so frightening. In response, it is said that it is important to address several urgent issues, beware of the urgent issues after 2007, first and foremost it is necessary to create detailed conservation bases, since there is an important cultural heritage in Muzil from the time Pula was the main port of Austria and later the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence has expressed its desire for the accommodation of military historical Muzil in one of the Muzil fortresses to be joined by the selection of the fort, and later by the arrangement, equipment and everything else that goes with it. And to get back to the beginning, the army left that area in 2007, today 15. Afterwards, the Ministry of Defence still decides which fort it would choose as a military historical museum. And it is sad how the state treats its property, but unfortunately it is Croatian reality. What is important is to point out that the city of Pula has carried out all the necessary actions to put the area into operation, a project of urban reconstruction of Pula has been launched to stimulate the development of the city through the restoration of abandoned locations and to exploit the potential of inactive state property, and during that time the state has done nothing, as if we are not the same state. From the above, it is clear message to the Pula and Pula that there is unfortunately nothing from Muzil for at least the next 10 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103739	In the name of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives will be represented by a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103740	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I feel the need to announce tomorrow's debate on a very important law for our pensioners. Namely, what's this about? That law is in the first reading, going into the regular procedure. Therefore, it certainly gives more favourable conditions and an extension of the right by 300,000, an indicative of 300,000 family pensioners, or a special part of the pension based on the pension of the deceased partner, i.e. the use of his pension and part of his family pension. It further strengthens modesty, but increases the level of the lowest pensions and a total of around 500,000 people in Croatia are positive as regards this law as of 1 January 2023. I've been actively involved in making this law, and I know, I contact people every day, and I know there are very, very many questions. And it would be good if our esteemed colleagues and colleagues here had five, six, seven excellent acquaintances of the pension system to develop a good discussion tomorrow not at the point of criticism, but at the position of the right and possible improvement of that law in which we can go even better. The bill is a function of protecting the family and in the function of recognising the total marriage payment contributes through decades of work, payment and raising the family. Therefore, a very good and useful law that we can discuss, because it will also ask you in the field what my right will be, whether I will win, whether not only me. You all represent and the retired are your constituents. I'm the only representative here in the Croatian Assembly with a sign of retirement, but you'll all be asked that. Therefore, I ask you to prepare yourself nicely and engage in a good, quality debate. It is not forbidden to ask, it should be asked to answer all possible questions and that the whole problem that we are dealing with this time 22 years after our neighbours, Slovenians, but about the same way. So we're going through the paved paths, that we're actively involved in this, and that we know tomorrow our citizens answer what their rights are, what their pensions will look like, because this is really an increase in the scope of rights. Because everything they get here will still be coordinated as it has been twice a year. So we're increasing the level that's then synchronizing twice a year. I will leave part of the measure or measure of that law for tomorrow, but it is a total amount which, in the estimated amount, which will need to be provided in the state budget for the next year of billions and 217 million kuna, is significant when allocated to that number of pension beneficiaries. I would like to thank you in advance for your serious approach and constructive debates tomorrow on this important topic for our pensioners, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103741	Thank you very much. So we ended up clubs and independent representatives, Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before we start, let me just say a few words. 21 years ago a terrible crime took place in Srebrenica, so to speak in front of the international public, which gives the genocide in Srebrenica special weight. The genocide in Srebrenica brought to light all the indifference and brutality of its perpetrators, as it revealed all the incompetence of the previous international policy and the unwillingness to react to Serb aggression in the field of Southeast Europe, and knowingly closing their eyes or turning their heads from the crimes that took place, first in Croatia and then in BiH. In 2009, HS declared July 11th the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. For a moment of silence, let us express our deep compassion for the victims of genocide in Srebrenica and their loved ones. - A moment of silence - Rest in the peace of God. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the 11th session agenda with 4 new points. 1, Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the motions for 92 MPs in HS, 2, Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the motions for 92 MPs in HS, 3, Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Proposers of 40 MPs in HS and 4, Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Administrative Council of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the Points of the Proposal for an Completion of the Agenda, I would like to establish that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 11th session. Now, as it is always at the beginning of the week, we will go with a statement on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' Club, we will speak to the respected representative Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103760	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are approaching the peak of the tourist season, which of course means the biggest traffic on our highways, as well as record revenues. Croatia is today according to official rankings at the world's highest peak at the quality of its highways. It is also clear that Croatia's economy and Croatia's GDP would be completely unimaginable today without tourism. Of course, everyone who is objective is aware that today Croatia as a tourist power would not be forced to come to the Adriatic to come on an old road through Plitvice or across the Velebit area because, as is known, even 85% of tourists in Croatia are on the highway. However, what we have today’s opportunities to watch and experience on our highways is totally unacceptable. Starting with endless columns in the checkout houses and to works on roads that start in Croatia on highways in the peak of the season. At the time of Racan's government, Cacic's ministry created a strategy for the development of Croatian highways and the spine of these roads built Croatian smartness, with Croatian companies and this moment without European grants money. But now that we are a member of the EU, we have received European money for the introduction of an electronic collection system on highways based on the free flow of vehicles. This system saves 13 million kunas per month, which now HAC is paying unnecessaryly, and up to the costs and dissatisfaction of the users, we are not talking. This system, therefore again, is funded by European money and should have been put into operation by the end of last year, and as we are now visible in the peak season, the top of the season, and there is nothing from the system. We therefore seek and warn that all measures are taken and stop, first of all, the disposal of millions that we could save through the use of the European funds obtained, and that Croatian citizens and tourists, the users of our highways, have spared unnecessary waiting in columns in front of the collection houses, which have already been a completely outdated solution in the EU for 5 to 6 years. Special story is highway work, so I'll remind you again that at the time of the ministry that I was talking about, there was a ban on highway work from 1.6 to 1.9. I was driving from Varazdin to Zagreb today and there is no end to the Varazdinske Toplice columns. So Monday morning. I won't even think about what happened on that stock weekend, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. This winter we didn't have snowflakes, we had temperatures that were very rarely going down, but if we exception both January and February, we had March and April and may be doing everything we thought to do on those highways, however, nothing was done and we were working, so all over Croatia on all highways we started right before the peak of the season. So I'm really interested in who in the ministry plans and approves of such a dynamic work? And thirdly, there are occasionally strange characters like the representative of truck carriers, Mr. Kranjčec, who said a few days ago that they are on the verge of survival because of such a model of highways where 25 lipes are paid. Of course, it didn't occur to him that the vast majority of their incomes were just tied to the existence of these highways, so imagine what these trucks and foreign trucks would look like in transit to drive all together along the old roads. And what is particularly important, and our citizens don't probably know that there would be these privileged positions of car carriers in Croatia, and if they, and especially foreigners who were then privileged to pay the prices they pay in neighbouring countries, our citizens could drive 50% cheaper on our highways during the off-season. There are clear calculations and we as Reformists will come out with this request and a proposal to the Ministry of Transport. So, in conclusion, our citizens and foreign tourists are completely unnecessarily harassed in columns that, from the beginning of the 7th month to the middle of the 9th stretch from Varazdin to Dubrovnik only because the ministry did not introduce a system for which it received serious European funds, so I expect the ministry to do so immediately, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103782	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative, Dario Zurovec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u103783	Thank you, Reverend. We've introduced the euro, but we haven't solved the Swiss yet. I've recently witnessed something else in court, and I must admit that I've really been shocked by how slow, inert and disorganized it all seems. Although my case as a witness wasn't something special, I must admit, then I'm not surprised we don't solve the Swiss case. In the meantime, I have still heard from our fellow citizens, our neighbours and friends, that some things have not been resolved at least since 2014. However, before the very detailed presentation, I would like to point out perhaps for the general public who I hope to see and monitor this work of the assembly, which is basically the integrity of the contract by interpreting to the lawyers that I have been able to contact. This means that that contract, if it is not eligible, does not produce legal effects which it would produce if it were valid or it contained such shortcomings and infringements of the legal rules that it consequently does not have legal effect. The integrity of the contract can be complete, it may be partial that I do not go further into the topic. But as it seems to you in principle in practice, we have laws here on the conversion of art. 325. and subsequent disappearance of the cause of integrity. 326, a whole series of provisions, we have a very large number of individuals fighting for their rights, if you're taking credit from me, I'm telling you that interest is 10 kuna, and in the end you have to pay 50 or 100, so what else am I than a thief or a camera. We have to admit that that's how people feel cheated. But what's even worse is that the litigation proceedings before the first-degree court have been long since 2014, since 2014. To this day, the children finish primary school. The banks do not want to make deals and put unnecessary objections in which the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have already taken a legal stand. We are going back to another problem, some first-degree courts are still not familiar with the views of both the Supreme and Constitutional Court, so the bank's objections are being reconsidered, and in this way each object only contributes to the duration and duration of these proceedings. Recently I even heard from a man who ended up having an apartment, a bank took an apartment, and a man did not pay for it, but probably overpaid it. Now we're going back to this initial definition. In the light of the question of the integrity of the Swiss franc loan contract, the absolute integrity of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia exists for the time being active procedures for the audits submitted, but decisions have not been made and a single position has not yet been taken. Citizens have also sought to determine the integrity of the Swiss franc loan contract and have set it before the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg and are called, of course, on the need to give the consumer legal protection and declare the credit agreement in full if it is explicitly expressed the will of the consumer and in their cases they call for decisions of the EU court, which is quite logical. Now my impression, and I believe the impression of the majority here that some Croatian courts still do not respect the demands of Croatian citizens who seek to determine the integrity of the credit agreement in Swiss francs and thus deny the legal protection that consumers in the EU normally have. It should also be noted that Croatian citizens in most of the Swiss loans have either closed other loans that are still in a credit relationship or still pay the same according to the Swiss franc rate, which today is equivalent to the euro rate or are before the end of the contracted credit payment period, so it is in the interest to establish contracts in the credit value of the total. All the annexes as far as I've been able to get to know myself if you've signed a contract by one provision, if those provisions are harmful so you can't do an annex contract that's all the opposite of that. In other words, our citizens are seeking legal protection. We will enter the euro area and pay for everything with the euro, but we still have these tails to solve. I appeal here to the Supreme Court, to the Constitutional Court, and of course to your fellow Members in the assembly to support, not me, I live, I will dare say quite well, but according to those 100,000 citizens who are still in huge, huge problems. At the end of the day, they're funding us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119172	We ended up with clubs and independent representatives, so we would move to the first point, first, first law, and that is: - Proposed law on the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, first reading of P.Z. No. 290. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119173	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The important Law on travel documents of the Croatian states, which was adopted in 1999, has been in force since 1 January 2000 with its 6 novels, which were adopted in the meantime, order to issue and travel documents to underage children. Under the provisions of this law, a request for a travel document to be issued to a child is personally submitted by both parents if, of course, the parents of a child jointly receive parental care. Exceptionally, a request for a travel document may be made by one of the parents, with a statement that the other parent will personally take over the travel document, if the other parent is prevented from taking over the travel document in person, the parent who has applied for it, but with the written consent of the other parent with the signature of the authorised and with the public notary or competent authority, or at the consular representation of the Republic of Croatia abroad, unless it is located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It may also be agreed by electronic means, using the public service of the travel document issuer for delivery, so to deliver a declaration of consent certified by electronic signature. An application for a travel document for a child may be submitted independently by one of the parents if the other parent has died or has been declared dead, if he is deprived of his or her professional capacity or if, on the basis of a judicial decision, he or she is independent of parental care in full or in this part, therefore, relating to travel documents or if the other parent rests on the achievement of parental care by the basis of a judicial decision. In such an implementation of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, a number of difficulties were observed during the departure of passports to children when one of the parents was not able to participate for an objective reason in the process of passing the passport, or it was significantly difficult for him to give consent to another parent to carry out this procedure on his own, e.g. in cases of illness, hospital stay, stay abroad, for example, it is common among sailors, prisoners and other categories of citizens. This bill proposes to remove the identified problems in such a way as to allow any parent as a legal representative of a child to submit a request and also take over his child’s passport. This shall also be in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 99. Family law under which parents who perform parental care have a duty and the right to personal and property rights agree to represent their child in relation to third parties. One parent is thought to have given his consent to another parent that he may represent a child without his express consent unless such explicit consent by the other parent is required in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 100th and 101st. Family law. The amendments proposed in this law in relation to the current Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens are primarily intended to simplify the procedure for issuing travel documents for children. Exceptionally, a request to issue a passport cannot be submitted by a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision, is deprived of parental care or is limited to the right to receive parental care or is deprived of his ability in the section relating to the outcome of the travel document. However, if such a parent submitted a request, the request would be rejected by a solution. The draft law also proposed a provision in case it would be subsequently established that a parent who was deprived of parental care had been established by a child and refused to hand it over to a parent who was self-fulfilling of parental care in which the passport would be annulled by a solution. It should be noted that under the provisions of the Family Law, a child cannot live with parents who are deprived of parental care. The same parent who applies for a passport must bring in a child who turned 12. 'Cause kids who are 12 years old. they must also give fingerprints in the process of receiving the passport application. Here are these basic amendments, I will point out that in this brief proposal for amendments and addition of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, and the last amendments to the Law on the ID are equally amended and the provision concerning the submission of applications and the takeover of the identity card for a minor child, so we intend to do so with this law when it comes to the travel documents of Croatian citizens. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119174	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119175	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Katic, I'd like to make an explanation. So a request for a child's travel document. By art. 2st century 5 cannot bear a parent, or should not, who, on the basis of a court decision, is deprived of parental care, firstly, whose right to parental care is limited, secondly or deprived of his or her business ability to rule out travel rules for his child. Now, in art. 2 We see immediately in the next paragraph, if it is subsequently determined that a parent’s right of travel has resulted in these 3 above mentioned parts of this paragraph, how could it be possible for a parent who has either taken away his business ability or has no parental care at all to result in a travel document for a child? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119176	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119177	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. This can be really difficult in practice, but the law wants to prevent, if such a possibility happens, that this parent, along with the child, is used in such a deceitful way by means of a travel document, and therefore, such a correction will, by means of a solution, be annulled and cannot be further used, it will be visible in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119178	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119179	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State, under the applicable law of the Member State of the European Union. 12a. It says that during the duration of the pandemic, travel documents may be valid, and the same applies to identity cards as long as the pandemic lasts, up to 30 days at most until the pandemic expires and, in principle, according to the data that man may encounter, there are no major problems. But are you with all the countries around us where people actually travelcommunicated about this fact of ours, the regulation, are there any complaints and actually problems when crossing the border? And I also came across data that there were problems even inside Croatia, that some banks were making problems about what some documents had expired. So how much did you actually communicate and how many complaints are there about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119180	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119181	Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Yes, that is, the amendments to the Law were made immediately after the pandemic was declared, so somewhere in April 2020 and it is very important, as you have noticed, to inform all the bodies in the country and that the public sector and the private sector have expired the documents, which expired until 13 March 2020, to continue to apply in these frameworks that you mentioned. They, therefore, are still worth the end of the pandemic not officially declared, they are worth it, we have reported to other countries, and countries, especially EU countries and other countries, and we ourselves have received such notifications from other countries. We kept those notices, and as far as we know, and other countries stuck to our notices. There may have been some problems, we know that there have been difficulties, let's just say when booking plane tickets and things like that because you have to prove it by document, but it was mostly respected as much as it was in our power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119182	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119183	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Two years ago, we simplified the process of issuing ID cards for children, and now we want to simplify and speed up the process of issuing passports for children through these amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. By applying the Law which has been in force for 22 years of truth, it creates difficulties and problems for certain parents in the passage of passports and many have been for justifiable reasons bitter, but here, the procedure is as it is now in these amendments and additions to the law we want to address these shortcomings. Can you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119184	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119185	Here you go, dear lady. MPs. First of all, we wanted these two laws, their application, to be even, too, to comply with the provisions of the law on, the Family Law that I mentioned, Art. 99, 100 and 101. There are always irresponsible parents who try to take a better position with another parent than manipulating a child, and we think that the application of the law as it has been so far has really created difficulties, especially for absent parents. Not every parent, doesn't always live together because of work or some other reasons are often separated and it was very difficult to give to both parent or raise that document or to give consent. We think that all those mechanisms that would prevent child abuse are involved here, and that the process will be extremely simplified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119186	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119187	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we are talking about a bill that allows one parent to independently pass this travel document for his child and this proposal is in line with family members. So far, both parents have been able to make a request on this.../incomprehensible passport together or one to take over the made passport, or it could have filed a request and lifted the passport with the written and certified consent of the other parent, which caused difficulties. The same thing we mentioned, is part of another document that a child can have, it's a ID card. How do you get out of this, what is the procedure for making IDs for children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119188	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119189	Of, Your Honor. MPs. Since the amendments, the last amendments to the I.D. Act, the procedure is as proposed by this Act. So we don't think there's any reason that dating two in the nature of similar documents, that for, of course, it's a question of minors, that there are different procedures. We have already established that the procedure we have now and as it has been recently and for the identity card is complicated, and it does not prevent any abuse of the child. I say, and the Family Law is the precise and elaborate conduct of parents when it comes to property and other important interests of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119190	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119191	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Many parents will cheer up a new proposal to issue passports to children. I welcome this relief procedure because it is in the interest of achieving the fundamental rights of the child. Although I welcome the changes to the laws that will relieve the system in any case which, in the event of a problem when parents are in conflict, when they are in dispute over parental care and yet there is no judicial decision that would formally restrict one parent's rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119192	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119193	Your Honor, Madam Representative. In such cases, contact will be sought and the opinion of the Centre for Social Care will be sought which will represent the best interests of the child unless it is represented by those who, by law and by nature, would be obliged, which are parents. They will be heard and the opinion of the Social Care Centre will be applied in such a case until there is a final judicial decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119194	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119195	Thank you very much. I am interested in a provision in this amendment and in the addition of the law, so you are changing the article through this amendment and by supplementing the law. The 34th and, among other things, in the 3rd century, if I am not mistaken, it is said that the person who turned 16 may, in the meantime, make a request for a passport on his own because she concluded marriage on the basis of the approval obtained. What's the solution today? I tried to find it in the applicable law, so you're just changing the article. Article 34 In 34 you do not mention what is wrong with such persons, so today we have persons who have made marriages with 16 years of age, and when they seek a passport, what is the condition of their marriage today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119196	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119197	Dear Madam MPs, as far as I know this matter, therefore in a broader sense for persons who have made a marriage after 16 years of life for them, there is a certain legal assumption that they are commercially capable and that they can then also file requirements for travel documents as well as other legal actions in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119198	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119199	Thank you. Here I would ask you to try to explain in simplest lines what your goal was to amend these laws, this law? So, did you want to simplify the procedure so that only one parent can take out a passport, did you want to protect the child's interest in family legal disputes so that one of the parents can abuse the procedure and take the child across the border or what you actually wanted to achieve? I just don't see that clear goal of government. And explain to me why it's important that a 12-year-old has to come to the police personally to get fingerprints? What kind of public interest are we really protecting? I hope you understand. So, I'd like you to explain to me the logic of the proposed amendments to the law and the basic objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119200	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119201	The main objective is to simplify the procedure because we noticed that when parents came forward with documents and ID cards and travel documents or passports they often could not meet that obligation without a simple procedure because they were not there, so they had to give consent to verify with the public notary, in spite of today's means of communication and electronic communication it was not always easy, so this was the main objective. And other laws precisely, such as the Family Law, protect the rights and interests of the child. As far as fingerprinting is concerned, it's some kind of practice and according to the I.D. Act. Whether it was necessary to raise to 16 or 14 years, here's what would probably have been discussed, But that's the attitude taken by everyone older than [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] For years, you've been looking for a fingerprint. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119202	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119203	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I wonder if the MUP is connected to the courts that will automatically detect that the application for a travel document has been filed by a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision, has been deprived of parental care and all other activities that are listed to act preventively because if it is only subsequently determined, the harm of a child can be done, so I wonder if it is related and how it will be checked?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119204	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119205	The MAP is linked to the national queens in which such notes should be entered by law in the case of the lack of parental capacity of one of the parents and the basis of insight into the queens is to be made possible and it will be possible by electronic means to see if there is such a note in the file in the birth certificate and in that case no travel document will be allowed to be issued to one of the parents who has such a note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119206	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Sniša Hajdaš Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119207	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues. It is good that this Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents that in the first reading actually harmonizes and some of the things in the Law on the ID card because, as some colleagues and colleagues have noticed, I know because I have a child in those years, i.e. So far it has been a little bit difficult for you, one parent takes it, another parent has to come after it, etc., but this proposal that actually has four articles actually only matters to you this second article, which is the measure of the law, which is actually a new arrangement for the institution of the arrival of a travel document in cases where both parents share parental care and thus regulate the handling of the competent authorities in cases where a request for a travel document for a child is submitted by a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision, is deprived of parental care or is limited to the right to receive parental care or is deprived of his or her professional capacity, means in the section in which it relates to the outcome of a travel document. There is also the conduct of the competent authorities in cases where a parent with those restrictions manages to pass a travel document for a child, and only the issuing of a travel document to a minor who has turned 16 years of life and whose court in an extraparate procedure has allowed marriage to be concluded and who has entered into marriage. So so far, the current arrangement has not been exactly said favorably or well to parents who shared parental care, i.e. unnecessary difficulties were made to the outcome of the child's travel document and asked for the involvement of both parents which in many situations when one of the parents could not, for objective reasons, participate in the process of passing a travel document or was made difficult by some possibility of granting consent, could not carry out the procedure of leaving the travel document on his own, which actually slowed the whole procedure, and that is actually that good part of the law. This new regulation made it easier for the legislator to follow a child’s travel document in case both parents jointly receive parental care, which means that the procedure has actually been simplified as SDP’s Club of Representatives and supports it. This amendment was based on the provisions of Article 99. A family law which states that parents who perform parental care have both the duty and the right and other property rights agree to represent their child in relation to third parties, and that one parent has given his consent to another parent so that they can represent the child without their express consent except in cases where explicit written consent is sought, in accordance with Articles 100 and 101 of the same, which means the Family Law which regulates representation in relation to the essential fundamental rights of the child and representation of the child in relation to his more valuable property or property rights. As I have stated, there is also a provision for the handling of the competent authorities in cases where a request for a travel document for a child is submitted by a parent who is the basis of a judicial decision deprived of parental care and, in such cases, the competent police administration or diplomatic mission or the consular office rejects the request for a travel document to the child. The application for a travel document by a minor who has turned 16 years of age and whose court in the extra-parity procedure has allowed the conclusion of a marriage and who has made such a marriage is governed by the legislator in such a way that the application for a travel document is made in person because by making the marriage itself, he has acquired business dispute and can act independently in personal matters, which in conclusion means that the SDP club supports the proposed changes in particular in the part that will facilitate the child's existence of a travel document in cases where both parents jointly receive parental care, and it is clearer that these legal changes are regulated by the competent authorities in the disputed situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119208	On behalf of the Homeland Movement, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will be spoke by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that we welcome every simplification of the procedure, but since we are here in the first reading we will ask nicely the Proposer to correct some obvious illogicalities until the second reading and try to reduce or completely suppress some potential abuse areas that might occur here. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but I'm just saying if we're already passing the law, then that law must be clear, precise and, of course, must prevent any form of abuse. We heard a question here in case the parents were in some kind of conflict. In this case, when we pass a law of course, the authorities do not always need to know that there is a conflict in a particular marriage. He may not have to be registered, but when we pass this law simply one of the parents can go to the nearest competent police administration and pass a travel document, in this case, of course a passport for his child and simply travel abroad with that child, go to another country. In this case, even the third country since our entry into the Schengen area will make the passport completely unnecessary for the whole area of the countries, that is, for all EU countries. So I would ask the Proposer to listen to our proposal, or to ask that these things be written more precisely. What if we're looking for the opinion of the Social Services Centre? On what basis are we looking for this? So, it may happen eventually after the child's travel document or during the procedures for the following. It must be done by one of the parents apparently. So that should be very precise. In Article 2(2), paragraphs 5 and 6 are high. I asked that in the replica, but I'll point out one more time. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will reject the request of parents to issue a travel document, if the parent is deprived of parental care, the right to parental care is limited, or his business ability to claim travel for his child has been deprived. But immediately afterwards, the following article says that if a child’s travel document was subsequently found to have been issued by a parent from these three specifically mentioned bans, so the article is very illogical. In order for a parent to be able to make travel arrangements for his child in case his parental care has been taken away, that he does not have the right for his child to pursue a travel document, or that is simply restricted to him. I don't think this is clear, it's not clear, I don't see how it can be done. I'm personally gonna tell you honestly I had a very fun situation when I went to Ukraine in February this year I had to extend my passport. They just told me I had this big red dot because I had one unpaid traffic ticket. I admit, here I am washing myself in front of you, I paid for it, of course, and they extended my travel document. So, if the state knows that I don't have a paid traffic ticket, I guess it knows that there's a problem like this, that one of the parents doesn't have the right to pass a travel document for their child, and I repeat my request to the Proposer that these articles of legal change are much, much, much more precisely defined because there's a really big hole here. Namely, the legal text itself here provides for the fact that a person who does not have the right to establish a travel document for his child still results and will then be subsequently found not to be legal or not regular. Then how can this passport come into the hands of that parent who can theoretically take the child and go to Honduras or elsewhere the day after that, and then the ministry will annul the travel document and then we'll contact the welfare center. So, in a pure and sincere manner, we only ask the respected legislators to take some order on this, to take care of it, and then in the second reading we have much more precisely defined situations like this so that, of course, no later would happen that some of the parents would not, fully follow the prescribed and here the elected legislation takes the child, take out their passport, and simply no longer have it in sight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119210	A respected representative, Ivan Budalic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119211	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. As the State Secretary explained, I think that we all made it more or less clear that there were certain problems in the process of submitting requests or raising travel documents in children. More or less, we've all been through it in some way. This bill proposes to remove the identified problems in such a way as to allow any parent as a legal representative of a child to apply and take over his child's passport. The proposed newspapers are aimed at simplifying the procedure for issuing travel documents to children, which means that any parent as a legal representative of a child is required to take over the made passport of his child, which is in accordance with the Family Law. The application for a passport for a child cannot be submitted by a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision, is deprived of parental care or is limited to the right to receive parental care or is deprived of his or her business ability in the part relating to the outcome of the passport. The competent police administration or the station, or diplomatic mission or consular office, will by a solution reject the request. If it is subsequently established that a child’s travel document has been made by a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision, is deprived of parental care or is deprived of his or her parental care or of his or her business ability in the part relating to the outcome of the passport, and refuses to hand over the child’s travel document to a parent who is independent of parental care in full or in the section relating to the outcome of the travel document, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in charge of the solution will be the travel document. The proposed law amending the Law on travel documents as on behalf of the HDZ Club will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119212	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119213	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, which has been arranged for the procedure of issuing travel documents to children, which is also the subject of today's amendments and additions. As we can see, the debate was relatively quickly exhausted, there were no more significant proposals or suggestions in front of clubs, and there were no individual discussions. Subject law aims at simplifying the procedure for issuing travel documents to children. According to the provisions so far, requests for a travel document to be issued to the child were personally submitted by both parents if the parents of the child jointly receive parental care. Exceptionally, if one parent submitted a request for a travel document, another parent was obliged to take over a made travel document, and in the case of its inability or prevention, it could also be taken over by a parent who submitted a request with the written consent of another parent with the approved signature of that parent in a public notary or other competent authority in the Republic of Croatia or at the consular representation of the Republic of Croatia, unless it is located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is also possible to give consent to the download of the document by electronic means, using the public service of the travel document issuer to deliver a declaration of consent certified by electronic signature. In the implementation of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, problems were observed when the passports were issued to children when one of the parents for objective reasons could not participate in the procedure or was made difficult by the possibility of giving consent to another parent to do so on his own. It is therefore proposed that the amendments and additions in question allow any parent as a legal representative of a child to submit a request and take over the passport of his child. It is stated in accordance with the provisions of the Family Law. In 99, according to which parents who perform parental care have a duty and the right to represent their child by agreement in relation to third parties, and one parent is thought to have given consent to another parent so that they can represent the child without his express consent. The request to issue a passport for a child cannot be submitted by a parent who is deprived of parental care by a court decision, a parent who is limited to the right to have a parent, a parent who is deprived of his or her business ability in a section relating to the outcome of the passport. The competent police administration, either a diplomatic mission or a consular office, will reject the parent's request to issue a passport to the child. In the future, the proposed paper represents a simplification of the procedure for issuing travel documents to children, and it is also not necessary to provide additional resources in the budget. The HDZ Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119214	Finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritaš, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119215	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. As the State Secretary said in his introduction, it is the basic law of 1999. which has been completed several times. This supplement can be viewed with several aspects, one of the aspects that we need to look at this supplement and actually harmonize with the regulations that have been passed in the meantime, which define through a series of relationships with underage children and parent relations and the problems that exist. Every improvement, every acceleration, every possibility that you really don't squat in front of the counters, but that it's simpler, faster, more expeditionive we'll always support and support. So all that has been seen in the past is that the problem, seen that there may be a problem, saw that it should be done absolutely well. Indeed, through these discussions, we should also see provisions and the Family Law that regulates it and in representing it in relation to the urgent personal rights of children to be in mutual harmony and to be in good faith, or in good faith, to help us not to be able to do so. What I asked the secretary of state, I'll explain it one more time. So this amendment and the addition of the law only defines one provision of this law, that's an art. 34th and now, among other things, it is mentioned in that article. In 34 C.E., an extremely minor who was 16 years of age and who was allowed by the court in an extraparate procedure to enter into marriage by a request for a travel document because of his professional capacity by means of marriage. Okay. In the answer given to me by the secretary of state, I have to admit that he said that he assumed that somewhere else in the law it was settled. What I ask by second reading is that you really formally be accurate. If somewhere else there is a provision in this law in which it is defined, then these provisions must be amended and complemented by reference to the fact that you do not duplicate the matter. Here you are saying are therefore a defined special group of minors who, after turning 16. So if they are married and are more than 16 years old, can apply for a passport myself which I must admit is quite logical to me. If someone has been able to get married and there is a reason for me to be alone, and not for parents to go to apply for a passport and I don't see any problem, but all I see is a problem with the implementation that doesn't turn out to have a double provision or that you've got something else somewhere else. So, what I'm trying to say on behalf of our club is that all the things that we're speeding up, which we're simplifying, which we're letting be easier to support together, is that the more parents in principle for children today, especially for most of the EU countries, is possible and will be after the Schengen, and will certainly not go into the option of leaving passports but go to the option of having a personal ID card to make it easier for our children to travel, but absolutely any simplification and enabling and not to make the life of parents who, on several occasions, have to go to the passport is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119216	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Zeljko Pavić will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119217	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we would only like to make a few views out, and we know primarily that this is about passports that are actually biometric passports, meaning the latest technology present in us as in Europe if it is a case of ID cards similar to that of a certificate card. And I don't understand why you didn't predict connecting here with other systems, information systems where you have information about parents and relationships between parents and children, primarily between both parents and parents and children. Since here's where the colleague made one remark, which is that he had an unpaid traffic ticket, just to explain what it was about. It is that this system is in the same ministry, given that the documents are issued in the Ministry there is the same system of unpaid penalties that were imposed for traffic violations, so you had that alert and that red dot that you couldn't extend the documents until you paid the fine. Namely, the company issuing these documents has a connection to these systems, but that does not mean that employees or employees who are currently working in both the Ministry and the company doing the documents cannot have a link and control with other systems, which is not a problem today, given that there are registers, and among other things there are records in the social care system here we propose to the secretary to put this into law, that the parent who submits the application is obliged to bring confirmation that as regards social care, that is, that is, that document for his child without the consent of another parent, given that they are in good relations and that there are no obstacles to these documents being issued. I also suggest, please, that we make connections with other information systems that could provide information about the relationship between parents and parents and children, given that these data are available to all of us and we can reach them in real time. So there is no need for something special to be done, but only that these systems, which are currently available to other referents working in those institutions, are made available either in the form of a report or in the form of direct access and referents, i.e. employees working in the ministry, or working in the company that operates these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119218	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met, so we move to the next point, which is - The proposal for a strategy for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2022 to 2032 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4. Laws on sailing and ports of internal waters. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Joseph Bilaver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119221	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow Parliamentarians and MPs. The development of strategic documentation for the development of river transport of the Republic of Croatia is funded under the operational programme cohesion and competitiveness for the period from 2014 to 2020 totals 11 million 357 thousand kuna, of which EU funding amounts to 9 million 653 thousand kuna and 218. The strategic documentation for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia consists of a River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2022 to 2032. Strategic environmental impact assessments for the period from 10 years of the medium-term waterway development plan and the port of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 10 years with an implementation plan from 2022 to 2024, master plan of the port of Vukovar, master plan of the port of Osijek, master plan of the port of Slavonski Brod. This strategy has been developed by respecting the European national regulatory framework in force at the time of its construction. The objectives and measures resulting from this strategy are in line with the development direction of the European Union in the transport sector in particular in the internal waterways, as well as the development direction of the Republic of Croatia in general and in the transport sector. It is also important to point out that the strategic objectives defined are in line with the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. In defining the objectives and measures for the coming decade, strategic documents and measures that the EU promotes in the area of energy efficiency, environmental protection, and adaptation to climate change and low carbon development have been taken into account. The objectives resulting from the definition of measures and activities of the strategy are recognised globally in building the infrastructure of the internal navigation system as a roof goal and achieving a higher level of quality and competitiveness of the existing network as a secondary objective. In practice, in particular, this would mean an increase in the share of freight traffic on internal waters compared to total freight traffic from 0.78% to 3.05% in the share of passengers on inland water compared to total passenger traffic from 1.52% to 4.32%. Reduce CO2 emissions of the vessel and greenhouse gas emissions on internal waters from 1.2 to 0.6%. Increase terminal capacity in ports and ports on the inner navigation up to six times, increase the share of arranged, river route arranged for navigation according to the class of airworthiness compared to the total number from 474 to 524 kilometers. The strategy defines measures to ensure the main priorities of inland navigation transport, which focus on establishing and maintaining conditions for safe and reliable transport in inland waterways. Maintaining international waterways in line with the necessary international navigation standards, developing and modernising international ports, increasing sustainability of sector reorganisation systems, developing intermodality, connecting ports with other modes of transport. In order to ensure successful implementation of the strategy, it is necessary to ensure effective implementation of the measures in accordance with the given timeframes. To this end, key indicators of the impact of the strategy have been drawn up to ensure the monitoring of the implementation of the defined measures, and ultimately to achieve the objectives of the strategy. The strategic objectives other than indicators defining the level of implementation of a particular objective are divided into several thematic areas in order to implement a specific strategic objective, it is also necessary to implement at the level of the priority areas of public policy towards which individual measures and projects are created necessary for the implementation of the strategic objective. The adoption and implementation of the strategic documentation for the development of river navigation will lead to improved infrastructure, improved intermobility, improved process of transport of goods in river transport, and its link to road and rail infrastructure, increased capacity of state, river ports Slavonski Brod – Sisak – Vukovar and Osijek and consequently total capacity of river corridors, incentives for development of internal river navigation systems and improved entrepreneurship and economic activity related to the system and global economic development in its wider area and region. The technological modernisation of the system refers to the modernisation of port operating systems, technologies used in the management of cargo and cargo and equipment processes at port. It also refers to the introduction of a port information system that will improve the logistics process in the ports themselves. The port information system will allow automated data exchange among stakeholders in a sequence that will optimise port logistics processes by connecting international river ports in the Republic of Croatia, smart ports, blockchain and similar smart technologies that can increase the impact and economic competitiveness. Finally, the adoption of this Strategy will help to improve Croatia's integration into EU transport routes, leading to the consolidation of social and economic relations at the level of the Republic of Croatia-EU. Following this, freight transport will intensify, not only in ports, but in the entire Croatian sector, the basic expansion of the TEN-T network of the Rayna-Dunav corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119222	We have several replicas, the esteemed representative Cosic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119223	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I must say that one significant activity on river navigation infrastructure has been observed for the last 2, 3 years. The ports are being built, there is a big investment in Slavonski Brod, in Osijek is ready and I think it goes into realisation, Vukovar is doing the same. As for the waterway itself, I don't think it's an activity that's any weaker, worse, only if on the Sava River it's the only one, these works are carried out on the inspection results, so we don't have any projects to go into one strategic organization and waterway activity. We know that the EU's intensity to complete all TEN-T routes by 2030 and that it should be intensified to make Europe a climate neutral continent by 2050. Is there, I should say, a firm view of the government's decision to go into it actively and what this one, perhaps recognised on that road as one obstacle to this taking place with a stronger intensity?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119224	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119225	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. You've noticed, in the last three years from the state budget, only from the state budget is in the waterways and in the ports of the internal waterways invested over a billion kunas, when we add here and the European funds, then we come to over a billion and a half kuna. This is also evident in the increase in traffic, for example Luka Slavonski Brod was completed last year and already seen an increase, a significant increase in traffic, however, in order for this traffic to come in greater volume, it is certainly necessary to work on improving the business system and functioning of the ports themselves, but what you have clearly said here also on increasing the airworthiness of the waterways themselves and here, projects are being prepared and certainly will be reported for the next period, for the next new operational period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119226	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119227	... Just two remarks. [[Specially enabled.]] If I've noticed correctly. The amount you said was what it cost to make a strategy. But if I saw correctly, one of Big Five was actually doing a strategy so I don't know where their expertise is because accounting, mostly accounting, is dealing with making a strategy. And the second situation, you remember maybe, and you're young, you may not remember, '99. You were made first, I think, the transport strategy of the Republic of Croatia and I will now quote you what it said, increasing the share of river transport to 15% of the volume of transport compared to other transport branches with a significant share of transit traffic. And in this Strategy you suggest that, therefore, in the next period that this share should increase to 3%. Very interesting. It means '99. so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119228	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119229	I appreciate the question. I also told Mr. Cosic that in just three years, more than one billion kunas of European, national resources plus over half a billion European funds have been invested. I think you were in the period after '99, when that strategy was brought in as minister. Unfortunately, we couldn't get the results you mentioned back then. This strategy is adapted to current circumstances and I believe that we will be much more successful in the next period than we have been in the past 15 years, and I think you will be happy and happy about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119230	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119231	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, I will refer to that part of this strategy that speaks of climate change. So you have a part of the Strategy that talks about climate change and everything that applies. Given that this strategy is for the next ten years, and we are witnessing and I will not say any great news if I say that climate change is facts, that the temperature has increased and in public space is quite the current issue of some new plant and animal species that have emerged in the sea due to the increase in the real temperature of the sea. What you can see when you get a little analysis is that there is also an increase in water in the river streams, i.e. on land rivers and lakes and everything else. In this Strategy, I have not seen the part that would refer to that part of climate change that I appreciate is very important and I am interested in whether neither the contracts have been considered or will you supplement it during the next period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119232	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119233	Thank you. We've touched down on CO2 emissions, fuel, vessels, greenhouse gas emissions from 1.2 to 0.6%. You yourself are aware that climate change affects both transport and inland waterways, especially in Croatia. Except for the Danube, we have large oscillations in water quantities, i.e. water stops, and that's all we'd say, due to climate change. On the other hand, we have an EC that strongly encourages the transition of freight to railways and inland waterways that are the most environmentally acceptable. What is independent of this Strategy is the task ahead of us in the next period is to help the shipping industry on the inland waterways to be even more environmentally acceptable, and thus to achieve global targets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119234	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119235	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. When we talk about tourism, then most often we talk about tourism, mostly on the coast. More and more recently, however, the development of tourism is also on the continent. Visible from your own Strategy and the data you have listed, in fact until 2019, until before the pandemic year, a significant increase in actual shipping of passenger ships, just for example to passenger ports belonging to the port of Vukovar. In this regard, I welcome that you have also envisaged in the measures certain measures for the development and improvement of this particular part of tourism, so can you only briefly state what measures and objectives you want to achieve in this period until 2032 in terms of tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119236	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119237	Thank you. You have seen well in the strategy itself that traffic, passenger traffic has grown greatly to the pandemic in 2019, but in 2021 Luka Osijek reached these pre-pandemic figures, which certainly makes us happy. The highest capacity has Luka Vukovar and the largest number of ticks and it certainly makes us happy. They're somewhere on 70 to 80% pre-pandemic numbers. What we are working on right now is the winterer Opatovac, Sotin, Batina, a port where we are trying to give additional contents to tourists to have additional content when visiting the Republic, I will not go now, yet it is the task of the Ministry of Tourism, all that I can see and visit in the area of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119238	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119239	I thank the Secretary of State. The importance of traffic development should not be particularly stressed as it is clear to all that it is important for the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, its international integration, as well as the integration of the entire Croatian space. What I'm curious about is how far the ports are connected to the main road and rail corridors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119240	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119241	Thank you. I think we have the most important, we have Luka Sisak which is connected, and it will be connected very quickly and on the highway, it is connected to the railway, Slavonski Brod which has access to highways and railways, Luka Vukovar, we are currently working and we are finishing a major European project of Vukovar-Vinkovci, which will automatically be connected to the former 10th Corridor, the future Alpine-Western Balkan Corridor and we have Luka Osijek which is also connected to the railway and road traffic, in fact, we are interested in making the whole network, the intermodal network. As we can see, all of this is mostly in the east of Croatia in Slavonia, I think there is room for all of these port administrations that I have listed that they can share together in synergy depending on the type of cargo quite enough, but also attract the rest of the burden from Central and Southeast Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119242	Dear Representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119243	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Given the war in Ukraine where the need to export Ukrainian cereals has arisen, and we know the situation that can no longer be exported through the Black Sea, I wonder if Croatian ports can play a role here, and if they can, what role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119244	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119245	I'd like to thank you, counsel. Well, unfortunately we are aware of the war in Ukraine, we are aware that grains cannot find their way to the world market through the Black Sea, which was a natural road and here we are and two weeks ago I attended the TEN-T days in... where we talked about how much of this burden, i.e. these grains, are carried out through the Danube, and they are automatically attractive and Croatian ports, especially Luka Vukovar, which has the capacity to load such loads, which, again, we can lead by rail to our seaports, here I mean, above all, Luka Rijeka and Luka Zadar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is in our interest to transfer as much of this burden to Croatia as possible because part of that burden will remain after the war, so here we are working on it together with the EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119246	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119247	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State. Two short questions. Much has been invested in the development of the river Luke Slavonski Brod. Is there something going on there, do you have any information on the amount of cargo? And secondly, is there an interest in establishing a public-private partnership regarding capital investments in Croatian Rijeka, River, Forgiveness, Ports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119248	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119249	As for Slavonski Brod, we came to, after opening this terminal that we funded from the EU funds, it was worth about 115 million kuna, and after the concession process, I think that the increase in traffic is about 50% compared to the previous period and with the trend of growth. We have some other logistics problems, I would say, challenges related to rail infrastructure that we are trying to address in cooperation with the Ministry, HZ Infrastructure and Luke Slavonski Brod and I think and I am convinced that this solution will further increase traffic in the Luka Slavonski Brod. As for the public-private partnership, so far we haven't had, at least I haven't had one that's of particular interest, but in fact. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119250	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119251	... Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] Considering the Proposal for a River Transport Development Strategy over the next 10 years, I would refer to one of the main ports, and this is Luka Slavonski Brod, which has an extremely favourable geotransport position is connected by both rail and road infrastructure, from the A3 highway to the international railway line Zagreb-Belgrade. Luka Slavonski Brod is on the Sava River, and I have noticed that there is difficulty in the wateriness of the Sava River due to the filling of the shallows with the water supply and the insufficient arrangement of the waterway for sailing, so please do you mind if I also notice the uncertainty of the realisation of the Danube-Sava channel, can you comment on that as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119252	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119253	Thank you, Your Honor. We are constantly working on maintaining the airworthiness and waterways and the Drava River and the Sava River, but if, I believe, you are familiar with this topic, we are also the Nature 2000 bonds, so we are also planning our future activities, but certainly everything that we are allowed to do by the European Commission and environmental protection will be working on in the future. As far as the Danube-Sava channel is concerned, a Study of Environmental Impact, an implementation study and should be seen when, at any point in time, go into the project and see what, it might be good to run a little wider discussion to see clearly, determine the country in which direction ic wants to go about the channel. You know it's 200 years old. The project mentioned and I'm still saying we're not in the final phase as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119254	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119255	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here's counterpart Hajdash Doncic mentioned some previous strategies, so he said we were in '99. in the strategy aimed at increasing 15% of the share of river transport from total traffic to 0.78% today. Some of the measures that were outlined in the strategy at the time and in the post-2008 strategy were primarily continuous and regular maintenance of the waterway. The same way in today's strategy that we are discussing is the first and the crucial problem of resolving the wateriness of our rivers. So what is it that you can promise us that again it won't just be a dead letter on paper because we see that it was a problem 20 years ago, 10 years ago, today is the same problem again, is how do you actually view that we're actually going to approach this issue in a bigger and gossiping intensity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119256	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119257	Okay, I've already answered part of it, but we need to see what the total traffic was in '99, which is now 23. After that, so if you take those percentages then you can see a little bit in absolute terms that it's not exactly what it sounds like on, on like this at first. And as for maintenance, we have continuous maintenance, you should know that, you're from Slavonia, you're from Slavonski Brod. We have continued waterway maintenance on the Sava River and on the Drava River, so that we will continue to work safely. That's, that's financed from the state budget, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119258	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and this first one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119259	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, therefore, is a strategy, and I think it's generally a good thing if you have a good strategy for something is just a question of how much of these strategies actually do things during some time that implements, implements have or how much implementation we ourselves have as a society before we go to do a new strategy on whether we are doing the evaluation of the last strategy and we see what we have achieved from the last strategy or not. So before this strategy a few of those facts from '99. from the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia in the development of river transport, as indicated in this strategy, but so little on the margins, so more colleagues from the HDZ were loud when they were unable to manage Croatia, and then more focused on what exists in '99, and that is to be careful as the main strategic goal was to connect Central Europe with the Adriatic, the Danube, the Danube-Sava waterways, the Sava River to Sisak from Zagreb, and train train transport to Adriatic ports, rivers and panels. Then what we mentioned about colleague Opaček and I, increasing the share of river transport to 15% of the volume of transport and, of course, what we all welcome, building river waterways, ports and transport terminals. So, we can all agree that the river transport of the Republic of Croatia is part of the European transport system, of course, that in the last 10 years, the European trend was also the direction of the goods flows, especially for the scattered burdens on internal waterways because transport by riverways is actually the most profitable and somewhat environmentally acceptable. Croatia is also connected to the Danube, Drava and Sava both Western and Middle Eastern Europe, and it should also be connected to the development of combined transport, thus also to the Adriatic, and thus to other countries of Europe, and thus to the world. What are the limiting factors now, that we have only 138 vessels, very modest, and all other Croatian rivers except Danube are not really, although they are related as pro forms on paper, they are not, in fact, epithet or do not have the characteristic of the highways of international importance, which means that since '99. In fact, even though we have as I say nominally with a thousand kilometers, these paths are weak or undeveloped. Now there's a comparison in the strategy, I'm going to say a few data only unfortunately we can't compare with these countries, and that's to say that the Netherlands is carrying 359 million tonnes of goods, Belgium 204, Germany 198, we're looking just this year before the covid, we were at 5.2 million even though I say, according to the data again from the Federal Republic of Germany, so the transport by river means is 25% to 30% less than rail and road transport and a few years ago, so the transport costs by river route in Germany were sometimes 4 to say to the cent, train 14, and road 24 per data. That is why there is a marked profitability of river transport within Europe, within waterways and in some countries it is already more than 20% of total transport. In Croatia, as outlined in the strategy, there are four river ports for international traffic in Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak. Vukovar and Slavonski Brod are basic ports, pan-European TEN-T networks, which are important. The strategy also stresses the development of the competitiveness of the ports in Vukovar and Osijek as the main river ports for freight and tries to determine the role of the port Slavonski Brod, which, apart from the Croatian part, has a part in the hinterland of BiH, and of course the port of Sisak where the entire central Croatia is actually frozen. So in the strategy it is visible to say some potential and desire to exploit the potential of sailing in the inland waterways, so in the tourism segment it stresses that the aim is to remove narrow throats on the waterways of Danube, Sava and Drava, and improve the waterway of the Danube and Drava River to Osijek itself. I say there is also a shyly mentioned construction of the multi-purpose channel Dunav - Sava. Now, not to compare the vessels of the Netherlands, Romania, France or Serbia, but as I say from these 138 Croatian vessels, so 116 are your tows, and 22 are your own. Unfortunately, Serbia has more than 395 vessels, and therefore the Croatian river fleet is relatively low load capacity and is over 50 years old, which is actually the first postulate strategy in terms of rentability, the ecological standards make it very questionable if it does not improve, so investment in the Croatian river fleet. Of course, the development and improvement of the internal navigation sector is necessary both in Europe and Croatia, and there is this regulatory, regulatory and strategic framework and there is in fact great potential in Croatia that provides transport in internal waters for the sake of reliability, efficiency, security. At least negative impacts on nature and the environment, and precisely when we seek at European level to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, therefore, of course, there is also an alternative to domestic transport as one of the more logical alternatives to others... However, we must also stress the dangers that are not clearly defined in the strategy, which is that river transport is a relatively clean method of moving, so products but must be made in the rivers that I have mentioned in order to make the waterways what are actually a yoke and I mean channelling rivers, which includes destroying natural river streams, which, of course, leads to a negative effect both on the human community and on the so-called flora and fauna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, river navigation infrastructure projects change the natural function of the river and its position due to the physical changes made. So it's the draining of water, the extraction of gravel and sand, the yoke, which again creates deep and uniform and flat waterways, which partially cut the river from its natural plain. And also, so we have to take care of flora and fauna, and that part of the strategy isn't really in the best part of it. Of course, there remains the infrastructure issue, which is actually what is generally with the Danube-Sava channel as a premise for the development of combined transport, so the SDP Representatives Club will be restrained as far as this strategy is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119260	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will speak the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119261	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a strategy for the development of river transport in 2022 to 2032. When you read, we have several topics, or several aspects, I have observed this strategy, or what it defines. The first aspect is next. Strategies are done in different ways. You have sectoral, therefore individual, and you have both comprehensive and I kind of appreciate that they are good to work individually in individual sectors, on certain topics. But ultimately, this strategy will be part of, or should be seen from the aspect of a complete strategy for the transport development of the Republic of Croatia, and then is a roof strategy where all strategies are located - spatial development strategies of the Republic of Croatia. But I think it is the most important strategy in which I must have all these elements that is the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia because we read all those financial things and all the financial elements. What's important in this one strategy of this type is what are the goals and what are the measures. Now we get to river traffic and now we have what we want in principle, and the principle is what we have and how to get to it. And in answer to my question, the secretary of state said something that I can fully agree with. The idea at EU level, ideas and us should be that the more we use river transport, the more we use river waterways and the more we use railways. And there are no green European plans, too, that says that this is from the aspect of environmental protection, or climate change is the most acceptable. And now we come to our existing state. Our current condition is not ideal. The fact is that we would all like to have developed everything, to have developed highways, to have developed rail traffic, to have developed Rijeka traffic, to have good ports on the Adriatic Sea, to have the mains of all these things happening here. But somehow I always think that when you move away those pink glasses that we would like anything like this pink paper here, that we should look at reality. In reality, we really have an extremely well-developed road infrastructure and poorly developed railway infrastructure. What's important for a more high-quality Rijeka traffic, and I'm looking at some basic water streams, so that's Danube, Drava, Sava and basic ports. They want to encourage their development, so it's not just a topic that you can sail along that river somewhere, but that you come up with this burden to land and then it's quickly bound to all other parts. And here comes the topic and the rail traffic, so the last ones I would say for sure for 15 years, and maybe 20 years there's no one who's been in charge of the transport ministry, there's no one who's been in any pre-election campaign that's tied to parliamentary elections, or in any election he hasn't stood up for and talked about the development of the railroad. So everyone realizes that this development is extremely important and everyone realizes that I actually call it such a limp cat, that it doesn't go the way that it should go. And now that I'm talking about the development of river transport, we can't talk about the development of river transport without a few things, which is: we can't talk without environmental protection, so in terms of climate change, we can't talk without adequate infrastructure and we can't talk without a certain connection or traffic connection. Now that we're talking about infrastructure, that's what's been found here too, that the infrastructure in the ports themselves is relatively bad, that it should be, that in this existing state of development, that we should be able to enable ourselves here on several occasions, I think even the Secretary of State was the one who talked about the new chargers when we talked about the new chargers and then the new chargers, the new ways of filling even ships and everything else that is important in our ports, then the infrastructure itself that's tied up here and with us which is the key to all the problems and we can't touch anything without mentioning the problem of property-legal relations. Because at certain ports you still have unresolved property-legal relations, or you have some private parcels that have not been solved, and then concessions are your problem. Another topic that is extremely important is the connection of waterways with I would say with certain economic areas, i.e. ports with certain economic areas, and there is certainly an advantage over all the railways. So, I am one of those who really from this pay phone I dare say that I am a big fan of the railroad regardless of what I am, I had a chance to do a little studying some other EU countries to see what you're talking about. It's a stable relationship, it doesn't depend so much on some weather, it's relatively fast, it can be the most acceptable of all but we're where we are. And something I'd like to point out in particular, something that is particularly important and maintenance of waterways. This strategy when speaking especially I am, it was particularly interesting to see three rivers of Danube, Drava and Sava. And for the Danube which is partly its part in the territory of the Republic of Croatia it is said that when it comes to him in terms of use it is acceptable. But Drava and Sava are being told that the problem is the application. I'm really kind of always thinking about pictures and I love pictures and I love especially those foreign charts and once when I'm in a real world, I'm in real life dealing with environmental impact assessments and when we were looking at the Sava River then and you took the Sava River flow during the Austro-Hungarian region, because Austro-Hungarian did it very precisely and then we took up an ortho photo of the Sava River today. And then it was seen that this whole Sava River actually moved at the expense of another country that is today Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia has gained a little more of its land and its territory on the account. Why? Because what any river carries with it, then it actually speeds up the flow of water and speeds up the flow of the river, and it just kind of bites the coast with what it does in this assembly, and at a higher level it's talked about using application from the river. I must remind you that there have been different regulations about the fact that gravel was banned from the river. When I say gravel, it sounds very rough, but in a long time there somewhere from the 1990s until the transition, Croatia had a very limited possibility of gravel, and I'm only talking about Sava, and our neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina were graveling, not to say that things went so far in that period they were building one another, watching a colleague from Slavonski Brod were building highways, so from Zagreb to Bajak's full profile and gravel used there was used to be used from the Sava River but not from our side because it was not possible but from the Bosnian side. And on our side came the application, on the Bosnian side they were graveling and the whole, the whole Sava River had moved a little bit. So, things aren't simple for you and things are never black and white for you. So even when we talk about the River Traffic Development Strategy, all these things should be kept in mind. Rivers are a living thing, so it's something living. The changes are seen, you change through it, not over 20, 30 years, but you're making changes in space, and I'll talk about it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119262	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119263	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. In these next few minutes, I will try only to highlight a few remarks, i.e. a suggestion from the e-consultation that I think should certainly be heard here, although, of course, every strategy is, in its own name, something that we want to achieve through a certain period of time, and so we have until 2030, we are often, especially we opposition representatives, prone to many strategies, and we have heard them in at least these two years as far as I am here five if I am not mistaken or six to call myself a list of beautiful desires, but to see what the people, organisations and systems really understand that are here. The Association for the Protection of Nature and Environment "Green Osijek" commented: "Arrival by rivers due to climate change of hydrological changes and extremely low and high water conditions is becoming a very uncertain form of transport. For navigation purposes, river regulation contributes further to the negative trend of burying rivers into the trough, lowering groundwater levels, drying up flood habitats and reducing biodiversity. As a result, the development of this form of transport is particularly harmful in the Drava river upstream of Osijek by nature, environment, forest, agriculture and water supply, an integrated approach within which all influence parameters will be taken is necessary when making and planning. Yes, it's quite clear that it is, but here we see that in the light of not only this question, but the whole strategy also says that it is taking care of the environment. We also know that we are part of Natura 2000 projects and that we have quite a number, i.e. quite a mile of river flows and in nature parks, as well as in national parks, and that we absolutely need to take care of environmental impacts. ... F Adria asks why it is concluded that Croatia should invest in the competitiveness of the ports and the development of the waterway if the increase in pressure is very low or almost zero compared to neighbouring countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The general need for the use of waterways in the economy should be taken into account. In accordance with very small quantities of cargo, it can also be concluded that there is no need to further develop navigation, especially if the investments needed to improve the waterway are taken into account. So, you're looking for that famous cost benefit analysis of sailing development. When here, and we heard here in the opening debate, and before us, we have the information that 115 million has been invested in the port of Slavonski Brod, then it's really one serious number. We sincerely hope that this strategy will be able to prove to itself in about eight years how much we actually have a plan to implement it. How much will be spent, of course, not only on us and not only on these papers that we can view here as the entire Croatian public, but of course on a whole series of conditions, a whole series of situations that happen or can just happen. What we really need to worry about is that many, in many points of this strategy, talk about the connection with the Croatian rail freight transport system, which we know to be quite whispered. It's still more successful than the passenger, of course, but he needs serious investment, and that's my people's worth of investment in billions. Of course, it would be completely unreasonable to expect any state to be normal, and I hope that our Croatia is a normal state, not to consider investment in both rail infrastructure and waterway regulation and their expansion. In any case, though, we hope to be honest that at least some of this will come true. The Association for the Protection of Nature and Environment "Green Osijek" added another comment, and it says that this project has become obsolete and will have a major impact on the spa oak forests which are an economic stopper and a resource of much greater importance than the Danube-Sava channel. The promoter here has decided to reject this comment. I believe it is quite difficult to put on one side the scales of the spa oak forest, and on the other side the Danube channel – Sava and here to make a decision. But we sincerely hope that we can have both. I looked at a little and a smooth analysis and I'll agree with another comment that said that under weakness or threats we should certainly add an unforgivable negative impact on nature, the environment, water resources, agriculture and forestry. We must also pay attention to any non-compliance or even non-implementation of certain procedures due to the European Water Directives, birds and habitats. In any case, the Home Movement Club, the House Movement Representatives Club, will remain abstention when voting on this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119264	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Pero Ćosic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119265	Thank you, well-respected president of the HS, esteemed promoters. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, or the Internal Navigation Administration, has drawn up a draft Strategy for the Development of River Transport of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2022 to 2032, which is the basis of the future transport development of the river transport of the Republic of Croatia. According to the density of waterways, Croatia is at the very top of the EU, which means that it has natural preconditions for the development of internal navigation in the context of high coverage of the country's surface area, but this advantage has not been used, especially in terms of transport of goods and passengers by river route, which is about 1% of the total transport in Croatia. If it's known that this information... 12 to 15% in developed countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia numbers over 1000 km of inland waterways from which the Regulation on the classification and opening of waterways on internal waters is 611.60 km classified as an international waterway. The internal waterways of the Republic of Croatia are part of the European transnational transport network, with particular emphasis on the importance of the Danube, located on the main corridor of the TEN-T network Rajna-Dunav. In the Republic of Croatia there are 4 river ports for international traffic, it is Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak. Luka Vukovar and Slavonski Brod are classified as ports of the basic TEN-T network. Despite the importance of both the favourable geographic position of the Republic of Croatia in the European transport network and the coverage of the inland waterway network, the potential of the internal navigation sector in the Republic of Croatia, as I said earlier, is not used enough. Namely, the internal waterways in the Republic of Croatia are compared to the waterways of EU countries and third countries in our environment, one of the unique and rare from the perspective of protecting and preserving nature and the environment. Namely, these waterways of our rivers have not been significantly changed in a building sense compared to their natural shape and condition, as a model for other countries in the EU, taking into account the European waterway network, it can be clearly concluded that rivers in the Republic of Croatia are not channelled unlike most of the European rivers, there are no structures of artificial barriers such as dams, constitutions or translators that would, in turn, make it impossible for natural migration of plant and animal species. However, the state of the river in the Republic of Croatia has been greatly deteriorated compared to other forms of sustainable human activity in the multi-purpose use of the water whole, especially the state of the Sava and Drava rivers. With regard to transport, all possible resources should be invested in order to ensure the necessary and appropriate infrastructure, but taking into account that this does not endanger, threaten or worsen the current sides of the ecosystems on the Republic of Croatia. This proposed strategy is further an indication that the Government and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure are working to change the situation in order to make transport on our rivers and river ports a significant economic factor. Inland water transport is imposed as a logical alternative to other modes of transport, especially road transport, and not only because of the reduction of negative impacts on nature and the environment but also because of the possibility of exploiting significantly greater transport potentials. The development of internal navigation, military routes and ports and ports of internal waters are of economic interest to the Republic of Croatia and therefore the next ten-year period should be dedicated to quality and systematic investments in measures to ensure the competitiveness and use of this most profitable, safest and energy-efficient mode of transport. The challenges exist in many parts of the sector, some of them are identified and solved or are being addressed because the improvement of the internal navigation sector today is both necessary in Europe and the Republic of Croatia and is foreseen in the regulatory and strategic framework. It is precisely this strategic framework that provides for the completion of the entire TEN-T network by 2030 as one of the important preconditions for reducing greenhouse gases from transport and represents, as well as the achievement of the European Green Plan's objectives in the climate neutral continent by 2050, and therefore it is necessary to start revitalisation and the construction of the entire river transport infrastructure in order to establish a more favourable environment for the transport of goods by waterway and sustainability of shipping companies. The largest number of vessels in Croatia was built before 1974, about 70% of the fleet was built before '74. g, so it is on average 48 years old and such Croatian river shipping in competition with foreign shipping companies is losing competitiveness in the European market and therefore investment in increasing competitiveness and promoting sustainable development of the internal waterway sector as an economic branch is becoming of priority according to EU requirements and guidelines through strategic documents in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has provided financial resources of 4m euros for the period up to 2025, seeking to encourage shipowners to further invest and provide support for the development of shipbuilding. This program is called Fleet Greening. The strategy also encourages the development of river passenger transport as one of the greater potentials, i.e. the continuation of the development of cruises, tourism that had the starting path to the crown of the crisis, but here, not only of the cruises, but also of the development of passenger traffic, such as excursions and line traffic, which means that by the port there is also a need to build ports. The proposed strategy represents a strong long-term perspective for successful change in river navigation, when greater levels are achieved, in order to achieve a higher level of quality and competitiveness of the existing network of inland waterways, the objectives of the proposed Strategy and are building infrastructure, smart internal navigation system through technological modernisation and removal of narrow throats on waterways, and for successful modal change in river navigation in Croatia, it is crucial to support the government and government policy and one... The political decision to do so, to change the thinking of all stakeholders of internal navigation, a decisive attitude towards the system modernisation process, a strong long-term perspective, means strategies and plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the strategy we're considering right now. Continue to invest in the entire transport infrastructure, connect the internal waterways of the Republic of Croatia into a unique system via the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. It is also European waterways. Then digitisation of all processes in the process of river navigation and certainly one stimulation and promotion of the development of the economic sector, i.e. small shipbuilding through incentives. This strategy has processed and highlighted all of this, and represents the first significant step, and perhaps a turning point in the development of the Internal Navigation Sector. It is also a help in raising awareness of all those involved in the process of development in river transport, giving clear guidance on how, how, how, how, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Resorship Administration, Port Administration and all others need to act jointly and in synergy, it ensures the support and intervention of European bodies in the financial transport sector, in financing the transport sector at river navigation level as a means of significant involvement of Croatian river navigation in the European river network of goods traffic across the Republic of Croatia, TEN-T corridors, particularly through the Reina – Danube corridor, and connecting the Danube Danube Danube. The adoption of this strategy for the development of the Croatian River Transport for the period 2022 to 2032, the foundations of the future transport development of the Republic of Croatia's river transport as a competitive, modern, efficient and energy-sustainable transport system as one of the objectives and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will be fully integrated into the European transport network and will therefore support the adoption of this strategy by the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119266	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Marina Opačak-Bilić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119267	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here we have today's Development Strategy, i.e. The development of river transport, which at first glance is quite fine, quite solid. So we have a review of some data, several graphs of the state of certain traffic in the ports of internal navigation. There's also a smooth analysis that talks about the opportunities and challenges of this issue. However, we Social Democrats are not satisfied with this strategy, we are not satisfied with the data it shows, we are not satisfied with the way it is presented and that does not mean that we will not support it. However, we will support every document that speaks of progress and improvement of the situation in a particular sector, as well as this one. Unfortunately, however, this time, as in many cases so far, we are afraid that it is only a document, so only black letters on white paper and that there is no real action. In fact, one seriously arranged strategy is taken when we have a desire and a goal that we want to achieve and really commit to it, and the strategy is only a tool, i.e. a guideline or a plan document on how to achieve this objective. The main question here is whether we really want to improve, improve the state of river transport in Croatia or bring a strategy, because here we can even say that with the document as such we have been late for 4 years. Any strategy that we are talking about is just a tool that we want to achieve our goal and the key thing to answer is what we want to achieve in that domain, why it is important to us, and what deadlines we intend to achieve and how much it will cost us. Most of these answers are contained in this strategy, but it is crucial that I repeat whether we have a goal and a real desire to dedicate ourselves to the progress of this sector. The last strategy for the development of river transport was adopted in 2008 for a period of 10 years, so until 2018 we had this period of four years from today's document. And the sad fact is that the situation is the same and unchanged in the period from 2008 to 2018, while we had some kind of strategy, some kind of document leading from 2018 to 2022, while there was no strategic document. So I'm afraid the situation will remain the same in the 2022 period, in 2032 that we're discussing today because we had, we didn't have the same strategy. Looking at that little previous strategy and reading what we have done out of the objectives we have set, seeing how far this sector has progressed through the achievement of the objectives set at that time, unfortunately, not a bit. The key information to support our dissatisfaction is that from the total traffic, the share of river transport was at 0.3% in 2008 and was then announced that levels from this 10-year strategy would reach a percentage of a minimum of seven and even an announced growth of 20% by 2018. In fact, we've made such a growth that today we have a share of river road traffic from the watch now 0.78%. 0.78% and now with this strategy we want to bring it to a level of 3.05% over the next 10 years. Here is to admit that the goal now set is very optimistic. So, a growth of 2.27% in the next 10 years from now is something that is very easy to achieve if we get serious and really strategically caught up in this job, but it remains an amazing fact that in 14 years of which 10 years of implementation of the strategy have reached a growth of 0.3% from the announced 7% to even announced 20%. And I hope that now the desired growth of 2.27% will be achieved, and that in 10 years, we or some other person here will not discuss for this speaker with just as devastating arguments as we have today. It is also good to say that the data say that in 2000, the share of river traffic was about 3% and then it was about predicting a 15% increase in traffic. That's what we've a little bit in the replica to explain, so eight years later when we adopted the previous strategy, in 2008, we were at 0.3% and then we brought the strategy that we want to be on, here's not to mention these optimistic 20, that we're going to be at some optimal 7%, that by some miracle, and by some strange direction we actually came from 7 to 0.7% today. I would like to stress that the strategy for the development of river transport is an extremely important topic for this country and that it is important for us to develop precisely this kind of traffic, and here it is important to know that river transport is the cheapest mode of transport if we compare it with rail and road transport, it requires the least energy consumption, and these days we become extremely aware of what this means and this type of transport provides the highest safety, life span of the facilities and means of transport is the longest in any sense, domestic waterways are more efficient, more environmentally acceptable and ultimately, the most profitable form of transport. We therefore support any further improvement and strengthening of this sector in order to make maximum use of all the benefits of river transport. Key to all the measures that need to be implemented in order to ensure that waterways and river ports have a stronger impact, and to make more use of economic development, first of all eastern Croatia, and then the entire Republic of Croatia is a waterway arrangement, so the waterway of our rivers through as many days of the year as possible, is a crucial and crucial issue, because here, even though we have been associated with almost all over Europe, and we actually have good assumptions for developed river transport, and also in the tourism sense, it is not used in its fullness, and rivers have been stagnated for years because, from strategy to strategy, we see that, in both the second and third strategies, the issue is actually the first and key issue of wateriness of the river. So here we are, parallel to that, and we can't even talk about an increase in traffic that we tend to have if we have a river that can be approached by the river's most difficult route. Here, when we talk about the Lucy Slavonski Brod, so in it a colleague of Dretar said 115, I saw up to 200 million kunas invested somewhere. It is very commendable, however, to be invested, but it seems to me that somehow we are going in reverse order, that we have first invested in infrastructure, in a port where most of the years can't actually be approached, and that is enough indicator that it didn't seem enough and we hope that, in the future, it will be approached by much appropriate, much more appropriate intensity, actually, waterway arrangements. I expect here, that the adoption of this Strategy will encourage the strengthening of internal navigation and that we will go on the path that all our river ports have a purpose for which they are, so that the Social Democrats Club will support this Strategy with the emphasis that we expect much more activities that will really lead to the greater exploitation of the potential that we have in terms of river transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119268	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative and vice president of the Parliament Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119269	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've come forward for this debate a little bit from local patriotic, but also some other initiatives. In fact, by reading this Strategy, once again, we could all be sure together how tragically we rule and manage what this country gives us. How much we don't care about agricultural land, how much we don't care about our forests, our waters. At least we care and take care of people. And in this case, it's confirmed, unfortunately, even from what few times a colleague has been instructed how, even if we set some goals, if we declare ourselves to them, how we actually do nothing about it. 17 years ago, I was mayor of Sisko. I brought together experts and people to see how and in what way the city that was actually created as a harbor, as a port city, the modern Sisak was created as an onion in the 19th century, how, in what way to restore that important component, an important development dimension to that city. What people have told me is great to do because Sisak has everything that no other city has. 30 years ago, the largest port, not river port, but the largest port in Croatia was Rijeka, and then Sisak is behind it by the load of goods. So the city that has the finished river oil port, means the current cargo and all the installation is there, which has a dock and a port for scattered cargo, which has a passenger port and which has a dock at the Shipyard for refurbishing ships, which we initiated right in that mandate, so we don't see how a high-quality river transport can generate a whole series of development potentials by connecting to that river transport since the construction of ships. In Sisak, it can be remounted, you couldn't even remount ships before, but in Apatino, I don't know where in Serbia these ships have been remounted. So you have port facilities that are next to the railway, in a city 30km away from the airport, which is actually located in the region, the most developed industrial region of Croatia and not only Croatia but this part of Europe. No Rugvica is required of the city of Zagreb while Sisak exists with its port potential. But we were not able to do this, nor did this, which the colleague rightly warned about for a while, to secure the airworthiness of the Slavonski Brod River Sava, let alone to Sisak, let alone fantasize about going, I don't know, to behind Zagreb or Karlovac, as in the Strategy. Let's be realistic about planning, making sure that if we take a serious and important step, that it is a priority step, and let's not write down and rewrite what we already did 10 or 12, 14 years ago, in 2008 detected as something for which there is neither possibility nor interest nor this right willingness, I would also say the political will to get into such a thing. So what I'm not enough in the Strategy, maybe it's not an essential component of the Strategy, I don't recognize that, I don't see that it's recognised in the strategy of Sisak's importance as river ports and for this multimodal transport, to the fact that we're connected to the Rijeka port, that we're connected, I say, to the airport, that we're located at, close to, and BiH, that there are envisaged logistics business zones, that, that, in some way, all infrastructure is already on site, but there's really no point in transporting or investing in ports from which there's nothing to carry. Sisak, when it collapsed, also collapsed its port, no more iron ore for the iron mill because there is no more ironworks, no more oil port in Crinc because there is no more refinery, but there is, I say, a large pool around the mammalian port that can be used in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119270	We have two replicas, please stay. Honorable representative Ban Vlahek first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119271	Dear colleague Vidovic. Do you feel that the great potential of river transport would be even more expressed by better linking the river network for the Adriatic Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119272	With whom do you connect, with...? [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]] With the Adriatic Sea, I absolutely agree, so it's one of the key assumptions actually that fully valorizes the fact that we can on a very short, actually very short stake from Rijeka, here, to Sisak, it's very short, also have this link with Central Europe through river this. [[Intruder: With the Adriatic Sea.]] So the importance of this railway corridor, of connecting with Zagreb, but also with Sisko, I think it is condicio son qua non any excessive strategies and real valorisation of the fact that the Sava River is so deep, that I say entering our space and that we can have a connection with the whole of Central and Western Europe. Looking at Rayna as it looks and at the traffic going on, I remained fascinated by the fact that it is a potential that we do not use in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119273	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119274	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, it is understandable that your patriotism is related to Sisak and recognition of the problem that is related to Sisak, but somehow over time things change. So Sisak, who was, unfortunately 15 years ago, and 20 years ago, in terms of using the river, did not take advantage. For that there are a number of things, which doesn't mean it's late, it's never too late, but things change differently without one quality traffic connection, and I appreciate that this quality... It should primarily be a rail link, there will be no possibility of further development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there's also a series of things that are related to climate change, to the right to maintain the waterway, to facilitate the waterway, so there's a series of things that are mutual. But somehow, I'm also sorry that one potential hasn't been exploited, something Sisak was, like, 20 years ago, I'm not gonna talk about another country. about someone else's structure, and today it's two [[Thank you. Thank you.]] A different Sisak. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119275	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119276	Yeah, well, I did that a little bit, and I pointed out, Sisak was actually able to keep his industrial potentials so strong and big this and important that port. However, if there is no industry and those who need port services, but we have a Zagreb region, we have the City of Zagreb that has huge potential, huge potential, and when it is planned, I have seen in the Strategy, then we should think about these different engagements, private, public-private partnerships, we should allow those who recognise it, but the state has to create a infrastructure where this connection with the railway is, it seems to me, indeed, of crucial importance, and the port cannot remain isolated from its background, nor does it make any real sense to exist if it does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119277	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119278	Thank you. So in the late '90s, Croatia had those two, I'll say, some, let's call so-called. ideas pushed by a political party. One, someone will remember, she was your so-called. The tunnel through Učka for the railway, and the second one was your project called the Croatian Sueski Channel, '98, '99, will know here, Željko Dražović, soon Croatian Sueski Channel, Professor Pršić, Marusic, Brkic, is the exceptional economic significance of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. With reason, the canal will become the shortest water link from Podunnova to the Adriatic, with a short sailing of Sava towards Western Europe by 417 km, towards Eastern Europe 85 km, the length of the channel route as a technical feature would be 61.5 km, the channel stationage would start in Vukovar and end in Slavonski Šamac. So through the existing streams of the river Vuka, Bosuta, Budja and Konjsky. A large part of the route would go to a low agricultural and forest area, there would be adequate infrastructure facilities, bridges, and this would all be connected to the 340 km canalized Sava of Šamac, so with the construction of the port, the construction of the 160 km plain railway line from Zagreb, i.e. Karlovac to Rijeka, improving railway links from Zagreb to Split, Sibenik and Zadar, and in fact that corridor would have more meaning because, not only the Croatian transport system but our neighbouring states, BiH, would have actually integrated into the entire system. In addition, the water of economic functions, so small water, streams, would be focused... the surface draining of agricultural surfaces, canals, whether intended to have a quite high navigational class, that is 5B class, which means that two-way navigation of the thrust system through the thrusters would be possible, the multi-purpose functions of the canal would be resolved, so of course I have already said the waterway shortening, the draining of surface waters means new hydro melioration systems, surface depletion, of course there would be watering opportunities, that is to build a irrigation system of agricultural areas of about 40,000 hectares, which means that perhaps agriculture could also be directed towards highly profitable agricultural cultures at that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Disperse of the great waters of Sava, fertilization of small waters, but also emphasized the influence of the canal on forest eco systems. So that's what I mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club that actually the strategy doesn't give a sufficient answer to environmental protection, so that becomes a crucial problem today. And finally, this work actually ends in a good sentence, and that Kanal Dunav-Sava should actually be a premise for the development of combined transport and for the Croatian positioning in the transport routes of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119279	One replica of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119280	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hajdash Doncic, I will correct you in my replica first. 1893. was the first round table on the topic of the channel then called a little different but the same theme was the Kanal Danube-Sava and then its potential was recognised which was significantly broader than the traffic connection itself in terms of irrigation, in terms of economic development, in terms of everything else. So there are several topics in our rooms that could be discussed. For a multi-purpose channel that is why it was also called the Multi-purpose Channel Dunav-Sava was done on several occasions to assess the environmental impact behind it a spatial plan of the area of special features was created. It would be interesting to put on paper how much energy so far, the resources of knowledge have been spent, and I'm afraid he'll remain one of his wishes and that some time and technology I'll go on, and Kanal Dunav-Sava stays [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Just stay in history. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119281	Dear Representative Sinisha Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119282	Yes, I have nothing to add but that you're right, which is why I deliberately mentioned the drilling of Ucka for the railroad, so also the environmental impact study that they've been doing over and over again, so every time there was a local election, there was a national someone who actually pulled that project out of the drawer and started working over and over again, but without that key goal. And that's what I'm saying again, a social decision whether you're going into that story or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119283	Now they'll be speaking to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119284	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have something called the River Transport Development Strategy, and when we look at this River Transport Development Strategy, as I said in the name of the club, we always look at one aspect there. The aspect of this strategy is related to transport, but what needs to be seen should be seen in the context of the Transport Strategy, in the context of the Economic Strategy, in the context of climate change, therefore environmental protection is today a topic of climate change, in the context of spatial development, in the context of economic development. So this is one segment from which we have a strategy, it takes 10 years for us here to recognize that we have a thousand kilometers of roads that 641 international times and we say in the strategy, we have a Danube that we can use, we have a Drava and Sava where we have a problem applying. So now that we say in the strategy, we know that we have two rivers that we have a problem with using them and then in the context of that is the subject and the port and what is developing in the ports. Here, when we had an economic zone debate, we were particularly emphasising Luke Vukovar's economic zone, which has some potential. I would today, I think today that we, first of all, would be able to discuss the development of Rijeka traffic only if we look at the development of rail transport, the development in terms of the development of the economy of certain parts of the country and what we need to take care of, we need to take account of climate change. He was president of a U.S. country called Trump, and he absolutely denied that climate change existed, and during his term, one of the worst hurricanes and everything else that happened to America were immediately denied and shown. Today you don't have to be a great expert, you don't have to be big enough to deal with environmental protection, climate change to see that climate change is facts and not through another century and some other people and some other life than we are, so we're going to be participants and we're stakeholders of climate change and the question is what's going to happen to our rivers and about the use of rivers at all. So if we already know today that we have a problem with Sava and Drava so we can use ourselves at all, are we ready to solve this problem, whether we can solve this problem in line with environmental protection in terms of the use of crops, the exploitation of gravel, the sands that are changes, so these are a series of things that we need to ask ourselves to answer. What I want to point out, we have a strategy that was in 2008-2018, it's partially recycled, we have a new strategy that's partly recycled. This strategy, which was until 2032, I expected it to still give an answer that this part of the landscape change because the landscape would change whether I wanted it or not. All experts dealing with this problem say this, climate change is best adapted to the plant and animal world, the hardest man. So there's also going to change some things from the rivers and the use of the river. Indeed, in my lifetime when I was dealing with environmental protection, then perhaps I could and dare give some answers or predict some scenarios. Today I really don't even dare predict some scenarios and some stories. Things are changing so quickly that something that was drawn in strategies in 10 or 20 years doesn't work anymore. A key question that you should ask me today, as I asked Hajdas Doncic if Kanal Dunav-Sava is one of those things that will remain listed for centuries, whether it is past time or it will never be again and there will never be a need for him, in which sense rivers will go, in which sense, and in which sense, ports will develop because in these ports no matter what kind of mud or such infrastructure exists. Are we going to develop this in the ports of some new economic zone, we are going to give our own river transport, river and everything else to start using in the function of land tourism and to develop some new kind of tourism, these are the questions we should ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119285	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119286	Dear fellow Members, on many occasions you mentioned climate change and pollution today, I did not notice in the strategy whether you might know whether an assessment of the possible increase in the pollution of our rivers, the irrevocable destruction of forests and biodiversity has been made? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119287	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119288	Thank you very much. I also asked the Secretary of State because I was interested in these data, and I didn't see it in this strategy. This strategy is and we have to be kind of fair, it's based on what its name says, and that's the River Transport Strategy. But I'm sure you can't just look at that sector without looking at something else. So rivers are living organisms which are therefore the meaning of pollution that has consequences, the meaning of dry years, the descent of water supply, the rise of water supply, what I have learned over time, which is that both the plant and animal world is adapted to some new conditions, and in this sense, the forest and the forest world or something else is adapted to some new conditions. The example works, we have that hydropower plant system that's up on Drava, it's changed the plant and animal world, and not in a long time, in 20, 30 years. You have some animals you've never had before. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119289	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119290	I share absolutely with you my concerns about climate change and I think absolutely nothing in this country should be done without this horizontal goal being present. However, I wouldn't be reading this strategy I think that I'm 30-ac of 115 pages referring exactly to the different aspects of environmental conservation, and I looked at a little bit of the remarks that came from associations. I estimate that in one realistic planning where only Sava's airworthiness would really be talked about, I think this is all another story for a distant future. The Sava-Dunav Channel we heard is... 150 years as a story. I don't think that this should in any way, with quality work, be endangered in any way by the environment and nature more which would ensure an ecologically much more acceptable... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119291	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119292	Thank you very much. I'm really not the one who's in it exclusive and I don't want to be exclusive. I think that's where I need to make the best possible measure. I don't think it's supposed to be a topic to protect itself, no matter where they're probably only green now could attack, but if you don't have any criteria to protect them, then the question remains where man is, is man changing with his work the same way. For me, it's a good landscape, a landscape man made with his work. So, I've been an architect somehow my whole life I've been dealing with spatial planning, so with some landscape or landscape that makes nature equal to me in the same rank is quality and landscape and landscape that makes a man by his own hand, by his own action and must leave a mark on this earth. So I think the right measure is something that's potential. And I agree with you that the potential of Sava is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119293	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119294	Comrade Mrak Taritaš, you have made your debate very good, and here we all have found here today that the issue of river transport has been absolutely neglected and it is clear that we are half of the objectives set in the strategies so far, we could be at the level of the share of traffic. Here I will read one title of a portal a year ago that says "Croatia could load more goods in rivers than in seaports" by explaining it by our position as an important transport factor between the North Adriatic ports and Central and Eastern Europe. Luke is what they are, but we have them, but the problems are the same as the ones that were 10 years ago, so the problems are the applications that make sailing impossible. Do you believe that something more serious will change with this strategy and actually with its implementation? We don't have to talk of course about crossing our river ports of our seaports, but here's a minimum of something we can talk about Some potential here, like tourism and stuff? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119295	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119296	Thank you very much. So the strategy is a document you must have. About how good he is, how bad he is, how much he needs to be complemented or not is the subject of this debate and somehow I am the views and opinions that he can always be better and can be different. But things don't really change really quickly, and what's theoretically really we have the potential of rivers and theoretically we really have the potential of river ports, but we have to be fair about all that. So we're the state that has the budget as it has, we've decided to develop a road network in one period of our development and we have to be honest we couldn't parallelly and road and rail and sea ports and ports on rivers and waterways and everything else, it's very difficult to work out, but I kind of think we're discussing this strategy without having a railway development going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119297	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119298	Dear colleagues, I think, unfortunately, and I find it regrettable that we are the last generation of 60-year-olds who have had the opportunity, the joy, the honor, the joy, the wealth of participating in a bar from my northwestern Croatia in clean waters of streams and rivers. In this strategy and many others, it does not seem all that can be done to protect itself from returning it because of various circumstances, the construction of farms and everything, but in Zagreb now we have a stream of Štefanovec Markuševec to regulate it. It's good for us residents there, but streams of water all over the crust are concrete and lateral and down what the situation is, that was supposed to be good. Now what? Do they now say in Germany that this is not good? What do you do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119299	Thank you. It's not exactly about the river traffic, but the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119300	My colleague Sacic's things change so I was in Bavaria 20 years ago, so the Bavarians after World War II when Germany started to recover completely Bavaria turned into a fertile field, and then 20 years ago they became aware that it was absolutely unacceptable to them in terms of environmental protection, and they started to call it natural because we couldn't translate it otherwise, so you were compensated not to use your field or oranium but to return it to nature as you would get the biggest crop on it. And now we've all walked there in that Bavaria and admired the frogs who croaked and the bars they were. I have a little tongue that's a little longer I said, you know what you grow, and just give Croatia what it takes, and we'll still have And your ponds and your frogs and everything. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] things just change. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119301	Thank you. Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119302	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you have been troubled by the flow of river application, you yourself said that the river is a living organism, and that transmission is quite normal, where the rivers affect others in the Sava River appears to be a cause of interference, but here at those times when a colleague spoke of Sisak's fleet as a strong port and large fleet that application was regularly maintained, extracted, moved to other places because what you said was an ugly name for gravel should basically take place only inside the waterway, and not beyond that, and then those rivers would be fine and then the application would be laid down where it should be, by building... you know about what I'm talking about, so it can be solved precisely because everything changes quickly. And just one systematic water management needed to Master of water to deal with these challenges of extremes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119303	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119304	Thank you very much for your question or comment. A year ago, if someone in this assembly had started talking about nuclear energy as energy that was desirable, I think there would have been three-quarters of this assembly that they would have said, so wait for what's come to him now. Today, after the war that took place on February 24th in Ukraine, it is something that we are starting to speak from this pay phone. Likewise, I must admit that in one part of my work experience, I have struggled with the aspect of those dealing with environmental protection and nature that has been banned, so it has been banned at all in the water streams using sand and gravel because everyone has warned there will be applications, will change everything, the rivers will change even if it isn't a waterway, will change their troughs or will find a new path. It took a few years to become Realizing that this should be used and done. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119305	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ivan Radic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119306	The Honorable Vice President of HS, State Secretary, Honorable MPs and MPs. Before us is the proposal for a River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2022. until 2032. It contains a clear vision of the future development of river transport and makes sense of the goals that are to be achieved over the next 10 years, i.e. I would say the goals for the future. The proposed strategy was developed by respecting the current European and national, regulatory and strategic framework. but what is important to emphasise is that during the preparation of this strategy, working meetings were held with representatives of local self-government units, including the towns of Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Osijek and Sisak with the aim of obtaining full insight into the problems and potentials for future development, and conclusions from held workshops also served as a basis for defining the objectives and measures of the strategy. In relation to the regulatory strategic framework from the national level, we can say that the strategy is primarily drawn up in accordance with the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters and in accordance with the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia. Environmental protection measures are also clearly indicated, as can be seen from a strategic environmental impact assessment. In relation to the regulatory and strategic framework with a European level of strategy, it is based on the European Green Plan, the Danube Strategy, the Strategy for the implementation of the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin, the European Treaty on the Main Internal Waterways of international importance and on several EU Regulations of Parliament and of the Council. It is these documents that pave the way for the EU's development direction in the internal waterways and developmental direction of the Republic of Croatia, both in general and in the transport sector, which promotes energy efficiency and environmental protection and adaptation to climate change and low carbon development that have served in defining the objectives and measures of this strategy. In addition to the objectives and measures in the strategy, vision and mission are also clearly defined. The vision is a competitive, highly efficient, modern internal navigation system in the Republic of Croatia which is fully integrated into the European transport network and operates according to the principles of economic and environmental sustainability, and the mission is to strengthen the capacity of the organisation and the cooperation, the development of infrastructure and general modernisation to enable the exploitation of the potential of the internal navigation sector in the Republic of Croatia. Provide an adequate response to traffic demand, ensure availability and high quality and reliability of transport services in line with the modern needs of market players. The strategic objectives defined in accordance with the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 are also set on the basis of analysed development needs and development potentials. and this increase of competitiveness and fostering sustainable development of the internal navigation sector, as well as the development of infrastructure and the increase of airworthiness in internal navigation. These strategic objectives determine the direction of development in order to achieve an efficient and competitive internal navigation sector, while meeting them will increase port infrastructure capacity, which will ultimately lead to an increase in demand, i.e. an increase in burden crossings in Croatian Rijeka ports, but thus encourage sustainable development. We expect that implementation of these objectives and measures over the next 10 years will result in a competitive and modern internal navigation system that will be fully integrated into the European transport network. Therefore, as my colleague Ćosic said, the HDZ club will accept the proposed text of the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-11-0.u119307	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow on Tuesday 12 July at 9.30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 308. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 15:27 p.m. Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of the ladies and gentlemen's representatives according to article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with two new points. The first is a proposal to show confidence to science doctor Mark Primorac for the duties of Finance Minister and two, a proposal to show confidence to Oleg Butkovic, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 11th session. Now, before we move on to today's work or what's scheduled as agenda points, I'd like to brief you on the points that will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow so that you can prepare yourself, and this one we've all put them all on the agenda, but just so you know what's going to happen. So, tomorrow, we will first have a proposal for a decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and then a proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. After that, after these two points will be the proposal for a conclusion on the obligation to ensure the legal right of termination of pregnancy at the request of all authorised health institutions in the Republic of Croatia and ultimately will be a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. On Thursday we will begin with the first point, it will be the Final Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland, then the second on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and then we will have a proposal to launch a trust issue for Goran Grlic Radman, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So you know how we're going to do this in this order tomorrow and the day after tomorrow so you can all get ready for those points and study the materials.
