ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u82942	Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Over Eastern Europe, dark clouds have rewinded. The drums of war resonate. Hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of soldiers pile up at the borders of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus. The demarcation line between the Dombasa and the rest of Ukraine now contains thousands and thousands of long pipes, cannon pipes, multi-pipe rocket launchers, hundreds of warships in the Black Sea, on the Mediterranean, since the Cold War, have never been so many aircraft carriers, destroyers and never in the world media, since the Cold War and perhaps even before, perhaps since the Cuban crisis, there has been no possible massive military conflict. We Croats chose allies. We chose them, for all those who forgot it, I think it was the first to forget our president, the accidental President Zoran Milanovic. He forgot that we entered the NATO Pact in 2009. The NATO Alliance. He forgot that we are a full member of the EU, and we Croats are not cowards. We're not cowards. It is not easy to break up our covenants and the day’s word, that is, not to break up. And when we gave our hand to someone in the NATO alliance, when we became one of the 30 NATO alliance members, we also stood with others in defense of Western values, Western civilizations headed by the United States, but here we have one Asian country, there is Turkey and everything else is actually European countries. For those who forgot in 2014 there was already war in Ukraine. Thousands of people died, thousands of soldiers. ... They've been occupied, and Crime's been no longer Ukrainian ever since. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in Croatia, some are in Croatia here I will tell who I think, I doubt Zoran Milanovic forgot that we had a similar situation during the Homeland War, that we had a SAO landscape and there was a Storm, so we had a peaceful reintegration. And today, without any empathy, we're looking at what's going on in Ukraine. And our random presidents can make statements that have nothing to do with anything, which are actually cowardly. Because what that gentleman said can only be called cowardice, because the destruction of alliances, the days of words because a dark cloud of war has gone up somewhere, because of the drums and the drums of war. That's what cowards do. That's not what Croats do. He forgot too, and many others that this House, the highest House of the Croatian Parliament, decides on these matters, we decide, who also have electoral legitimacy. And on behalf of the Croatian people, Croatian MPs will give their last word. On my own personal side, and I will say with great certainty that the foreigners of the Croatian people are not traitors, we are not people and we will not betray anyone, nor this time the Ukrainians, no matter what random presidents think otherwise, what a bit of turbulence behaves like cowards. This situation actually reminds me of the war, when Croatian interests were also in line with the agreement, agreement, Izetbegović – Tudjman was in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we defended Croatia there. And if it wasn't for the Croatian young men who fought there, we wouldn't have defended Croatian either. However, to stress the sending of Croatian soldiers to Ukraine is not on the table, but neither is treason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u82967	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u82968	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Croatian public. When Oliver Frljić's performance "Your Violence and Our Violence" was presented in 2017, I quote: "a play that troubles the attitude of European and American politics towards the Middle East and shows false solidarity and European hypocrisy." At one point, the stage actress pulls the Croatian flag out of her sexual organs and then, in the middle of the scene, she is raped by Jesus Christ. Despite the fact that it is a horrible provocation which is the direction of offending and exasperating the believers in which it is unquestionably and has succeeded here is a quote from the feathers of theatre criticism. In any case, the play is very open, brutal and earthquakeous on the one hand, and on the other hand very poetic. I think it's important at this point because it's asking us some questions that we as Europeans have to ask. It's a finished quote. A big storm is understood, there were protests, police from HNK Split threw out the loudest ones. A well-known writer and columnist Ante Tomic called them without a problem, quote them again, credentials, half-writers who didn't even know where the Split HNK was located until the protest, finished the quote. Now in 2022, no new album of the rep group Tram was left, but from the call of pro-democratic and free-thinking circles this time came significantly different tones. The alleged protectors of free thought were cut off, distracted by what anyone thought, whether they were speaking, singing or raping differently, and united in a ghastly attitude to ban, stop, shut down, and could not, nor do they know otherwise only blindly follow their white world teachers who defend freedom and equality without any moral movement of the soul using methods that condemn themselves most strongly. Remove, spit, insult. Let's calm our passions. Let us conclude that art has its own expressive means both theatre and music. Rep music special. It also requires the provoking, directness, acuity and disrespect of any social norms, so why in recent days we have witnessed the excessive shelling of Tram eleven. The answer is very simple and always the same. Because they think different from the so-called. the mainstream, i.e. those who represent their own opinion as the only correct and socially acceptable. I'll remind the American professor and writer Ryan Anderson wrote a book when Harry became Sally, a piece that exposes the contrast between the ideologies of birth as represented by the media and the harsh reality of the lives of such persons. The book describes in detail examples in which transgenders changed their bodies to continue to face the same or worse problems in society after this drastic transformation. The book was immediately declared undesirable by self-proclaimed truth holders and in just a few days Amazon bookshelf and other Internet sales portals removed it from the offer. It's the same thing here, except it's about to be Amazon. It's about to be Menard in this case. The cancellation culture has been revealed in its worst form by critics who want to convince us of the miserable quality of music, lack of inspiration, missed lyrics and empty rhymes. None of us were impressed by their clucking. My message to chickens and robbed drinkers is in well-heated hens that you will stop no one, you have neither moral nor legal right. We live in Croatia, a country created by high-flying Falcons in the Storm, and they don't care about birds that run away when the first lightning strikes. So act, sing, dance and rap. Have full right and full freedom on this, but the Croatian Falcons also be completely free because when the new storm comes, we will need your strong wings, and the chickens will, as usual, squat in the chicken and wait for the storm to pass. And lastly, it's my colleagues, so I'm going to join their musical expression and say so let Tram turn around and let your tails go why you're bothered by people who don't peek out of your pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u82969	Thank you, now we're gonna take a break by 2 o'clock, and we're gonna move on to the agenda at 2 o'clock. It's 13,52 hours. Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83035	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must ask myself, will Croatia miss another chance to grow and reach that so-called EU average? Why am I asking that question? At the end of last year, we had our first tranche of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, about 6 billion kuna, and soon another 5 billion kuna arrived. After the first tranche, Minister Maric said that the money is not for patching holes from the past, but immediately thereafter continues to continue to use the funds dominantly for the water supply network of kindergartens and primary schools. If it is judged by the announcements, this second tranche will continue in that direction. Far from the fact that all of Croatia is not necessarily needed, but how and how this will affect growth and development, as well as raising purchasing power and GDP per capita, most likely very, very little. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan should be exactly the mechanism and means that will move us from the start of the EU. Croatia has never achieved the speed of approaching the European average recorded by Poland, the Czech Republic, the Baltic states and Romania in the past three decades. Croatia is only at a modest 64% of the EU's real GDP. Of course, most of the population, and that's how it makes me feel, and it feels like we've already missed one chance and I'm asking you one more question if we're going to miss this opportunity. When it comes to discussing these topics, then the rulings usually report to the argument that Croatia had a war. But let's be honest and objective at least once, and let's say that there were subjective factors, and there were corruption issues that I wasn't talking about. But what do you do to finally reach that so-called EU average? Regardless of the recommendations between us economists, we will all agree very quickly that an effective administration is necessary, a good business climate, good institutions in general such as the rule of law, education and these are the things that we will highlight, which are crucial for development. It's interesting that none of us mentions currency as a crucial factor. The introduction of the euro is not crucial for the investment climate as some point out, and I will only list a few examples from the environments that confirm it – Poland, Hungary and Serbia have drawn far more greenfield investment than Croatia and they do not have the euro. Serbia is not even an EU member, so back to the scale. When we adopted the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we all agreed that the way the recovery plan will be spent depends on whether Croatia will continue to unload at the beginning of the EU or will finally start building a competitive economy. It depends on whether our GDP growth rates remain on average 1%, whether the level of investment will be only a miserable 20% of GDP and ultimately whether our children will continue to go abroad because of the renting economy of nepotism, corruption and clientelism. If it is judged by this, what will be spent on these funds coming from these first two tranches, it seems that my generation that remembers even those stabilisation programmes from Yugoslavia, which remembers the Homeland War, will unfortunately remember not only one but two missed opportunities for Croatia to finally stand by the developed European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83092	Following is the statement on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83093	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, I will dedicate this speech on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to Mr. Journalist and Legal Officer, a colleague who lives free today with heavy memories and memories in his native Opatija, Oleg Mandic. Oleg Mandic is the last boy to leave the infamous Auschwitz camp. He's the last surviving victim of Nazi terror that happened 77 years ago. As we started working here at HS this morning with a speech from our president and a minute of silence for all the victims, and as we bowed down at Mirogojo's cemetery this morning, we at the Social Democrats Club feel it is necessary to repeat it every time on such days and on such anniversarys what happened in our past so that no one would ever do it again. That's why 77 years after Auschwitz happened, after the release happened, after that blackest history happened, in which 1.1 million people died in World War II, we need to talk loudly about the values we advocate, we need to talk loudly about the rights that our fellow citizens have, we need to talk clearly about freedom and progress. We have to advocate the idea of freedom and the idea of progressiveness that boys like Oleg when he was 11 years old wouldn't remember these industrial complexes where the crimes were happening, so that they wouldn't remember memories that were black unfortunately because they suffered his family, his mother and his grandmother. Unfortunately, we are a generation that has also passed evil and passed terror. We must be aware of this and develop cooperation, develop education and talk about it. I repeat that in a democratic society in the 21st century this would not happen again. And that's why the words we can read in Oleg Mandic's interviews should be remembered. He says, on the nickname I lived so-called. the selection, i.e. the situation in which each 5th line comes forward and is taken away. He was taken to the crematorium just because he was 5th in that row. I was in the 4th row and I wasn't the 5th, and that kind of worked out, constantly in fear of selection, and we avoided the march of death, and with good luck we arrived the night from January 26th, 1945. Then the few were released. I repeat, 1.1 million people remain in Auschwitz. Their lives there have been extinguished and that is our legacy. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to fully realize that such things would never be repeated again, that citizens who are among us would not be marked by their diversity because the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims is a day in which we must remember and we must not forget. So we mark this day to keep us alive, to remember brave men like Oleg, I repeat, the last boy to come out of the infamous Auschwitz. I invite you all together to join the initiative of the Israeli Embassy that whoever can, today, gives away their drink to all the victims by raising an inscription that says "We Remember." Let's remember that and let's not forget that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83161	We're going to a statement now, a free speech by the clubs, a statement of opinion. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and their respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83162	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A credible interpretation of the law is a legal institute whereby the legislator, in the case of a wrong or different interpretation of a certain legal provision in practice, determines its authentic meaning by means of an act which has the power of the law. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall be governed by the procedure for the adoption of a credible interpretation by which the proposal is submitted to the President of the Assembly, and then the President of the Assembly shall refer the proposal to the Committee on Legislative Affairs and to the Government for the purpose of assessing its reasonableness. Since it is not possible for the President of the Parliament and the Government to jump in on a credible interpretation, there is no point in launching an initiative like this, although one credible interpretation would be needed to understand what is actually happening in the country and to encourage the competent state authorities to take the job. It is obvious that they are not working, it may be unclear whether certain provisions of the law apply to the real life situations spoken by whistles these days and carried by the media. Namely, art. 295 of the Penal Code, a criminal offence of trade is prescribed by means of influence, so in Article 1 it is said that it is a criminal offence that, by taking advantage of its official or social position or influence, intervenes to carry out an official or other action that should not be carried out or that an official or other action should be carried out. So now I'm curious, when the President of the Parliament calls the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Property to ask him to urinate in the state-owned state-owned company, how does the person for whom the president of HS calls not charge the rent to use the state-owned business space, does this fall under the description of the crime of trade influence? Would the President of the Parliament be in an awkward position if the request for credible interpretation were to be referred to the government to show the government's integrity? Even if they skipped the president of HS, the request could be difficult to come to the agenda without going through the hands of Prime Minister Zvonimir Frko Petesic's office before that. Would he be in an awkward position if he read that in this request for credible interpretation, among other things, he would ask to clarify whether the situation in which he asks the state property company to spotly repair and rebuild the state apartment in which he resides, beyond the order before the rules on the way and order of reconstruction have been brought in at all, and contrary to the rules and conditions prescribed for any interventions in the common parts of the multi-state building, is that therefore under the description of the crime of trade influence? If Mr. Frko Petesic were to somehow skip, I am concerned that the foundation of this request would be evident, for example, if the Minister of Defence Mario Banozic, since in this request for credible interpretation, among other things, would ask for clarification, whether trading influence, when you choose an apartment owned by a state-owned state-owned minister before moving in, you should adapt a little and edit it, so you ask that, on the basis of your position as a senior in the management of the state-owned company of State-owned property, to prepare and invest a few hundred kunas in it, so that he should know that there is no regulation that should prescribe criteria for granting state-owned apartments, so that without any legal basis and measure, you take an apartment that is more than 30 square meters from which other ministers who had the right to use it. So, I don't know if it really should run a request like this, so that it's growing or that everyone like DORH's kicks over the fact that apartments and business premises owned by the state are divided by a party, a party relationship, that real estate is arranged for someone's private accommodation, that debts of several hundred thousand kunas or a few million kunas are forgiven and do not charge when the President of the Parliament for his own man is coerced whether it is justified to expect a legal state to operate in Croatia or we will recognise to HDZ that corruption and clientelism is a system of connections, benefits, the withdrawal of state money in private pockets has become an official state policy. Because only if we admit it then the President of the Croatian Parliament can continue to sit where he sits and that's the only way we can pretend that we have the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Government and not the criminal clan in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83298	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83299	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So the result of all the policies in our Croatia, historically looking, we can take note of the fact that today's appearances of a kind of shadowy totalitarianism with only one form of cover or alibi because we live in a country where you can still think only a little bit, and if you encourage a certain thing and say it, and it is not contrary to what the ruling furahs are, what happened in Zadar happens. The man who commented on something was declared a terrorist with eggs in his hand, and then came a salva of climbers who started with a variety of different forms known to themselves to defend what they should never defend or defend, I guess those times should be far behind us. But that's what we need. We need that. We need all the authorities to mock over the last 30 years, laugh in the face of this people. That's what we need. We need everyone to drill into their chests with their patriotism, with their faith in God, with everything. We need them to dictate who could be the patriot by which categories, which, by the way, who could eventually get close to one of those, dare say, caste. And the culmination of the mockery with this people took place in the appointments of the supervisory and management boards of any state firm in any area of our beautiful. And in all order these directors were great Croats and great honest-minded and who I am or who they are all in the past or who you are all here for them. And that's the highlight that apparently this intimate and honest people deserve. This country's robbery began with conversion and privatisation, and it continued. And it's easy even if no one even apologized, so it's easy to even take this people's shirt off and pull the belt out of their pants. And it's even easy that someone won't let you get down on your own, so we can be cowardly to the end, but they're forced and stripped of us. The problem is that no one can at least shut up today. The taste of the entire policy and the visible red thread are data of corruption and perceptions of corruption that Croatia has placed behind a Rwanda in 63rd place. Well, only the Imotska krajina in the last 20 years, listing everything in order, so Milanovica and all the others who have been and led this country, have forgotten that it was a rich end, I would dare say the economic center of that part of the hinterland. Various promises have led Imotski to close 11 plants over the past 30 years, which have fed more than 9,000 people. A rich end today was brought to a beggar's stick, similar to the one with which the question of whether or not we can delete it, and it gave everything to the Croatian state. And he shouldn't have helped us. We need help today. We've been needing help for years, and unfortunately, she's gone. All I'm going to mention is Biokovka, Trimot, Agrococco, progress where no one knows who or where he took anything today. The procedure would be more or less the same. The state to encourage, to support the money, then a particular factory is declared non-profitable, after which, of course, there goes layoff of workers, bankruptcy proceedings and ultimately sold for peanuts. What's the problem is it controls everything, and when I'm out of business, the vets who ran those plants were buried in the dungeon, they weren't heard or seen, and then when they were supposed to dig up again, someone dug them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83469	Advocacy of the position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is followed by a respected representative, Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83470	... When President Milanovic recently visited the Vatican, he said to a journalistic question about Medjugorje, it would be good if the lady did not show up every day. [[Specially enabled.]] After his latest statements, I think that most political public think it would be good if the President of the Republic didn't show up every day, so he might not find himself on a very problematic black list of the largest NGO in Ukraine and would spare us the damage and shame that is immeasurable. This is how we have statements that do not match Croatia's consistent official position, harm bilateral relations and undermine the EU and NATO alliance's efforts towards the current security threats in Europe. They are problematic multiple both in the area of the internal and foreign policies because they show first negligence for the said. Others do not contribute to calming tensions and others show their self-will in deciding matters of state interest. Sending as well as withdrawing the Croatian army from NATO mission strengthened... The presence is not a unilateral decision and a monopoly of the president's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a process of internal reconciliation between this Parliament, the government and the president as well as agreements with partners in the NATO alliance. When is 2014. The launched annexion of Crimea was clear that Russia was behind it even though the soldiers had no Russian markings. It is Moscow's policy said Milanovic, who is not our enemy but has broken rules that must not be violated. I quote: “Russia should have sent a clear message that what it is, Russia needs to be sent a clear message that what it has done is worse than unacceptable. It's the aggression and occupation of a part of the state. Russia crossed the line. The Ukrainian side's procedures were as understandable as their expectations for Croatia's support as a country with similar historical experience at these moments of external invasion. Zoran Milanović" Today, Ukraine is a corrupt country in which the right to sovereignty and territorial integrity is questionable because it is located in the interest zone of those who made it worse than unacceptable in 2014. In February 2015, the US announcement that it would participate in the military assistance of Ukraine was as said by the President of the Republic, then the Prime Minister of Decisions, which as far as we are concerned, can be considered with understanding. Where it's lost and what's changed is the question someone needs to answer. Where Zoran Milanovic disappeared as Prime Minister after a summit in Minsk said Russia has injured the sovereignty of the neighbouring state, she took Crimea, it can't go like that. Why is that a problem again? Why is it a problem to continue to advocate a peaceful solution, to accept that Ukraine has its own way and to support it in how Zoran Milanovic also used to speak. And now that is repeated by many and the SDP's representative in the European Parliament, who herself regrets these statements that are unfortunate, which do not go towards an escalating tension and which represent a serious political scandal. In a single foreign newspaper in March of the 1990s, President Tudjman recalled that in the book "Freakless" a long time ago he wrote that there was so much irrationality in our premises that the last moment to open the conversation of smart people was. I think we have smart people in all parties and we need to find a way out of this hostage crisis in which Croatia is being held by President Milanovic. His latest statements, which led him to star status, not only in the Russian media, were such that at one point I thought he was going to ask us to impose sanctions in Ukraine. He did not do it, but he sent a message that it was the suburbs of Moscow and that its sovereignty rightly could be questioned. And it's not just a message sent to Ukraine, it's sent to both the EU and our NATO allies. It is also addressed to the United States of America, which hastily after the Bradleys agreement cease to be our strategic partner and become a lost state in its internal contradictions. Finally, the president of our country was elected with the support of the SDP, the HSS, the left coalition, but also the DP to fight for international visibility after a lot of insults and jumps into our public space, so he bit Austria and its fascism, France and its corruptionism, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria and then the EU and NATO union. For two years, he absolutely did not help Croatia achieve any foreign policy goal, and on the internal plan he accepts the opposition role of both the Parliament and the Government and let's forget it all, let's forget everything he said, but let's ask ourselves what our position is on the issue of freedom, what is the position? if he matches Zoran Milanovic's stance. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83596	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS of Honored Representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83597	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk today on behalf of the IDS Club about a new financial envelope that has already begun the financial envelope twenty-first twenty-seven. However, before we begin to warn about some problems that are clearly coming to us, we should mention that in the first financial envelope since we entered the EU we have had 10.8 billion euros available, and at this point we have withdrawn 7 billion euros, or 65.44%. There are no more new deals, and by the end of 2023 or 2023 it means a little less than two years we have to withdraw what is left and unfortunately we already know that we will not be satisfied with the percentage that we have succeeded in withdrawing. And today, for a reason, we can ask whether Croatia has the capacity to withdraw funds that are available to us when we see that in the first part, or in the first envelope, we had more than double the resources, so 10.8 billion euros did not get good results, and in this envelope we have almost 24 billion euros. And why do I ask that question if we're capable? We already have a huge problem. The Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Property threatens to pay us back the 5 billion kuna we received from the Solidarity Fund for the Reconstruction of the Earthquake. And as the ruling ones liked to boast, that it was the biggest advance ever, and very likely will be the greatest return ever. So far we have withdrawn or used only 2%, and the deadline is June this year is another 4 months. We've already got a problem with the personnel, and we've got overlaps. We have until the end of 2023 the possibility of withdrawing these funds that we have agreed to, and also applying for new funds. And instead of being prepared in time, we trained the staff, saw if we had enough of them at all, we just now ordered a scan of the situation at the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation, at the Ministry of Economy and at the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. And what's the worst result is going to be defeated and they're going to say that we don't have enough expert personnel and we didn't train them, we didn't educate them, and we're not going to get them anywhere. And in order for the paradox to be bigger in the public administration, we have 100,000 employees more, and where we have huge resources to create a competitive and resilient economy, to raise the social, economic, economic standard of our citizens there, we have no people to do it, and we have boasted that we have received 24 billion euros and we have received them. We got 'em because our second quarter is 2020. He was the second largest in Europe 15.1% because we don't have a serious economy, we don't have a serious economy, and obviously we haven't learned anything from it, and we're not going to take this opportunity right. This crisis is unfortunately not going to become an opportunity for Croatia and the question is how it will end all together, and we see that serious and quality reforms are not in sight, there is no serious reform of education, serious tax reform, serious judicial reform and all other important reforms that would allow me to repeat a better social, economic, or economic standard. The funds of the Recovery and Resistance Fund will go through the Ministry of Finance. We now know that we are short 30 experts, and we can now predict the suppression of the system and the preparation for failure. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we don't know what to do, we don't know how to do it, and we don't know who to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83627	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83628	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we mark the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. As every year, we repeat how conscious it should be about this tragic chapter of the past. The International Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust was founded to highlight the importance of teaching young people about what happened, but also to prevent similar horrors in the future. What we can learn from the Holocaust is important because ethnic and racial hatred is still present. Every spoken word in the public space has a profound impact on consciousness and thinking, so education on human rights, tolerance as well as an indication of discrimination and hate speech is important. The knowledge of the sufferings and cultures of Jews, Roma, Serbs and others and their differences is a wealth and a better understanding of one another. Today for the Serbian community is an important day, the day when we mark St. Sava. Students in schools where they teach in Serbian and Cyrillic letters celebrate their advisor to beginners and protectors of education and health care. And perhaps that is exactly what the greatest importance of the Holy Sava is seen, for in addition to the civilization and cultural foundations it has laid, it has remained the spiritual vertical of its people, the symbol of the sacrificiality, patriotism, self-denial, the beacon that carried the peace of God in itself and with it. The peacemaker of his defiant brothers and neighboring countries. The importance Saint Sava had for Serbian art, literature, theology, medicine, education, for the whole culture is immeasurable. The right of each individual to live in freedom and the right of every nation is to cultivate his tradition and culture. I'll end up with the words of a great man. A virtue is a method, a means, and a goal of enlightenment, and this indicates that the truth of all human beings is the basis of every education. Knowledge without virtue is dangerous and harmful, and the greatest harm it does to man himself. That's why I call from this place that we must reject each other's hatred, accept the multiculturality of our country and bow down to every victim. By showing respect for the innocent, we keep the memory that these horrors never happen again. Let's call it love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83670	Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. Before we go to work today, I'd like to inform you that the HS delegation laid a crown at Mirogoj's cemetery this morning for the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust victims who declared the UN in 2005 by adopting a Resolution on the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust. That same year, Croatia joined the International Association for the Memory of the Holocaust, which committed itself to promoting a lasting memory of the victims and to foster research and learning about the Holocaust, its causes and consequences. In 2016, the members of the Union adopted a working definition of anti-Semitism and encouraged countries to use the document as a guideline for teaching in the holocaust. In 2020, the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture reached a conclusion that encourages institutions and civil society organisations in Croatia to promote the working definition of anti-Semitism. The Committee also stressed that education and education, especially young people, play a crucial role in preventing and combating xenophobia and racism. On 27 January 1945, colleagues and fellow MPs were released from the largest Nazi concentration camp in Auschwitz, Poland, the infamous symbol of the Holocaust, the unimaginable loss of the Jewish people in World War II. The Holocaust carried out a Nazi regime of over 6 million Jews, children, women, and men, as well as members of other groups who, according to shameful Nazi ideology, were undesirable. Monster crimes took place in Auschwitz and remained a permanent symbol of all the places where people were systematically tortured and brutally murdered, just because they belonged to a nation. On this day we also remember the infamous Ustasha camp Jasenovac, which killed members of the Jewish people, as well as Roma, Serbs and Croats. Today we also remember the victims of other genocides and unimaginable crimes, we remember Vukovar, Scabrnje, Srebrenica and other sites of innocent victims in modern European history. Along with the Holocaust, they are a lasting reminder of the horrors, torture, and cruelty and serve as an example to future generations of what evils can cause hatred, racism, xenophobia, and intolerance. We must never forget that the Holocaust began with a hate speech and ended with the acts of evil. However, the holocaust teaches us that during that dark age, our recent history of any man who had enormous courage, courage, and compassion, they saved other people's lives at the cost of their own lives. Among them are 120 people from Croatia who have been declared righteous among the nations. These are the brave men who resisted the Nazi regime by saving members of the Jewish people. History teaches us that each individual instead of passive observation of human suffering can choose and extend his hand to another man and thus do a good deed. On the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust of 2020, marking the International Day of Remembrance, we also honored these great people with an exhibition in the UN called Justice among the peoples of Croatia, which was organized in coordination with the Yad Vashhe Memorial Centre of Israel. The exhibition told a story about 47 of the 120 Croatian righteous men who saved the lives of Jews during World War II. Dear MPs and MPs, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims with numerous educational and cultural activities in the world wants to give birth to the victims and raise awareness in public of the importance of the prevention of hate speech, violence, racism and genocide. By cherishing the memory of the victims through a clear condemnation of crime and education, we should work to promote tolerance in society and mutual respect for diversity. The theme of this year's markings and memories, dignity and justice. It then calls for the importance of showing pies to victims, preserving historical facts and fighting their distortions. These are preconditions to satisfy justice and to prevent such crimes from happening again in the future. The Holocaust is an eternal reminder of what evils can come from xenophobia and racism. By marking this day, we remind ourselves of the importance of respecting the rights of every man and protecting his human dignity independently of his race, sex, nation, language and religion. Through solidarity, tolerance, the fight against discrimination and the respect of others, each of us contributes to the fundamental values of democratic society. It is a pledge never to repeat in the future the crimes committed in World War II, but also in Vukovar, Skabrenj, Srebrenica and other places of human suffering and suffering. Dear MPs and MPs, the world we live in is rapidly changing. In a short time, we faced pandemics, natural disasters, economic crisis, life and health threats. With great care, we also follow what is happening around us. There are geopolitical crises and potential war conflicts, major migration, climate change and rapid technological progress. All these processes change the way we've known each other so far and cause security and affect our future. Through the change of social circumstances and the development of social networks, the world has seen an increase in false news, disinformation, hate speech, xenophobia, racism and intolerance. This is contrary to the values of promoting peace and freedom, the inviolability of human dignity, equality, respect for human and minority rights. The messages of the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust victims remind us that by the power of individual and collective we can overcome hate and evil and remain committed to the protection of every man's historical truth and dignity. And the crimes committed during the 20th century where millions of people were killed, we all can and must learn lessons together. For generations to come, we should leave a message that by caring for the culture of memory and piety toward the victims, we strive for messages of peace, solidarity, and acceptance of others. With that thought, I call upon you to pay tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust for a moment's silence so that such crimes will never be repeated again. - A moment of silence. May it be their eternal glory!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83713	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and reformist respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u83714	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, an article called half a million people was published on a portal, and a hundred thousand more in the public sector. Indeed, a new census of these days has shown that Croatia lost a little less than 400,000 people in 2011 and more than half a million in the 2001 census. At the same time when we talk about local and regional self-government units in those 20 years when we lost half a million people, the number of employees increased in municipalities and cities by two and a half times. In the counties, the number of employees has doubled, and in cities the number of staff in the administration has increased by 50%. Very specific. In 2002, we had 1200 employees in the county to be at 2400 in 2019. In cities, the number of employees rose from 7200 to 10700, and in municipalities with 2200 to amazing 5800 employees. The total number of employees in local and regional self-government units increased from 10700 to 19000 and increased by as much as 78.4%. The same trend is accompanied by, of course, employment in the state public sector. To reach the total number of employees in the state public sector is a real undertaking, because there are no combined data from employees and consumption in the public sector, because there are also ministries and systems of health and education, justice, agencies, etc. But by analysing several documents, of course, the most important budget, i.e. the item of expenditure for employees. It is clear that over the last 13 years, employee expenditure has increased by 11.8 billion kuna and 68%, respectively. In partnership with EU countries, Croatia has the fourth largest share of public sector workers, so we are here with Denmark, Finland, Sweden. I think it is too much to explain that there are little differences between the developed countries of Scandinavia and Croatia. In this statistics, it is particularly concerned that in the public sector, therefore, which is in Croatia, as I have said, includes these globular systems and health and education and justice and social services, etc. The biggest increase is in employment, so-called employment. clean bureaucracy, but it is still a worrying fact that the Croatian public sector is one of the worst in Europe according to numerous European independent analyses. So let's recap. In Croatia today, we have half a million people less, which means that the number of public service users is drastically reduced. We live in a century of information and digitisation, which enables all users to carry out a whole range of services on their own, which means, of course, it once again reduces the scope of the business of the existing public administration. And we, in parallel with these processes, manage to employ an additional hundred thousand people who, through budgets, of course, pay our citizens, our businessmen, our craftsmen, our farmers. So to avoid confusion, here is no problem in people the problem is that in the public administration employees, the problem is of course in the system that needs to be changed urgently and made rational and efficient. In this administration, the bulky, expensive and inefficient resources are huge resources for serious injections to our covid with a tormented economy, and that is exactly what we expect from the Government and Minister Malenica. We're already halfway there. We haven't heard a word about public administration reform so far. So we call on the minister to come up with a plan and a programme as soon as possible that will make this public administration more economical, efficient, cheaper, and thus seriously relieve our citizens and our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84790	State Secretary, you're free to go. But the next law goes, so it's yours again, yes. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, that is, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 218. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Dario Zurovec, representative Katarina Peović, representative Marija Selak Rasadić, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, Club of IDS Representatives, representative of Renata Sabar Dračevac, representative Ljubica Lukačić, Club of representatives of the Green-left bloc, representative of Silvano Hrelja, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, Club of Representatives of the SDP. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, so I would now ask the re-respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour, Pensions System, Family and Social Margaret Mađeric to take note of these amendments. Let's go in turn, the first amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84791	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed principles in the text of the final draft law express fundamental values and rules in the field of social care, and through further provisions, the rights of users in the social care system are further regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84792	Since there are no MPs, we will vote on the above-mentioned amendment. Now let's go to Amendments 2, 3 and 4 they're identical content, you'll be the secretary of state once you're obvious, and then everyone will have a chance from those who have suggested to manifest themselves about what you said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84793	The amendments are not accepted. Each person shall have the right to information on compensations and services in the social care system and the right to support in overcoming communication difficulties that contributes to meeting personal needs and improving the quality of life in the community, including, where appropriate, a translator for a person who does not rule the Croatian language, for translation into a language that the person understands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84794	Let's go in turn, Amendment 2 was a proposal from the SDP Representatives Club, a fellow member of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84795	This amendment requires that all users of the social care system or social care system services be enabled to overcome communication difficulties and to exercise the right to information on compensation and services in the social care system. This right right now has deaf and deaf blind persons, right to an expert translator. However, people who do not have sufficient Croatian language to successfully adopt information on benefits and services in the social care system do not have the right to do so. This has also been warned by the Ombudsman and this amendment would not be shown in practice whether or not all persons have access to information on which they have the right as a fundamental principle, which is to be informed about all services and information in the social care system. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84796	Okay. Who's going to appear on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Comrade Ursha Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84797	I would only add to my colleague Glasovac that it is part of the rights that migrants simply have under all the laws, provisions, regulations, directives and other documents in the EU and I think it is minimum to allow their rights to be understood, as well as in Croatia. And that's why we're staying at the voting request, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84798	Okay. And the 4th Amendment of Representative Renate Sablar-Dračevac, here's your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84799	I thank and also remain with this amendment because I really think it is necessary for everyone to have access to information, including those who do not understand the Croatian language well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84800	Thank you. Let's go to 5. Amendment, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84801	The amendment is not accepted. Persons with severe mental disorders who are not deprived of their business abilities are covered by Art. 1. 10th to which they have the right to participate and to give an opinion in the procedures in which their rights and interests are decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84802	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84803	So, I asked for the extension of the provision of St. 4. in a way that enables people with serious mental disorders to participate in giving opinions in the procedures in which they decide on their rights and interests. Since we have called other people who have the right to co-determination, I don’t think it can hurt us to explicitly cite people with serious mental disorders in this place. I will therefore ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84804	Okay. The 6th and 7th Amendments of the SDP Representatives Club and Representatives Renate Sablar-Dračevac are identical, so the State Secretary is one indication, and then the proposings will manifest themselves to what you say, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84805	The amendments are not accepted. In terms of the final bill, the household is a community of people who live together and settle the cost of life. The achievement of individual fees and services is conditioned by the income or property censorship of the household and applies equally to all users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84806	The SDP Representatives' Club will first be obvious. My colleague, Glasovac, do you, not colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84807	I'm sorry, we've been consulting a little bit. We believe that we are still standing in the process of seeking a vote on the amendment because we believe that users who can only exercise the right to a one-time fee and those who are on temporary accommodation if this requires the living circumstances in which they were found, and other rights, for example, guaranteed minimum compensation, are not available to them. We believe that people should receive help and that in cases where social care rights are not recognised by the basis of their personal circumstances and the fact that they live in a household for social care users and thus reduce their rights, and we ask that this amendment be addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84808	You got it. Advocacy of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84809	I'm also asking to vote on this amendment. She's already brought out the most important parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84810	We're going to the 8th Amendment Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84811	The amendment is not accepted. Since 100% of the base refers to working singles, that amount is considered sufficient in relation to other categories of persons because, with the guaranteed minimum fee, the user has the right to also be entitled to the cost of dwellings, the compensation for the threatened buyer of the energy products and, where appropriate, the one-off fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84812	Comrade Voter, here you go. Turn it off, turn it off yourself, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84813	I don't agree with your explanation. The increased fees are not enough and we cannot talk about social benefits as a reduction in the risk of poverty. It will increase the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee, i.e. the basics, and reduce the amount of the right to compensation for housing costs. When everything is summed up, we come to more or less unfortunately the same amount. For example, a working incompetent male has the right to a minimum fee guaranteed in a monthly amount of 920 kuna and a remuneration for the cost of dwellings of 50% of the minimum fee guaranteed, which would be 460 kuna, which together amounts to 1,380 kuna. Under the new law, such a user will be entitled to a guaranteed minimum fee of $1,040, and a fee for the cost of dwellings of 320 kuna, which together makes up a sum of 1,360 kuna, as much as 20 kuna less than I just said. It is commendable that the amounts have increased for members of the household, however, the single household is at greater risk of poverty than households with multiple members and therefore we ask you to do so and we believe it is necessary to increase the amount of guaranteed minimum benefits for a working incompetent male by a minimum of 150% of the basis. I demand a statement and a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84814	All right. We are now going to the 9th and 10th amendments, again are identical content of SDP's Club of Representatives and Renat Sablar-Dračevac's representative. Please show the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84815	The amendments are not accepted. Since the purpose of the guaranteed minimum compensation is to settle the basic living needs of a homeless person who has been provided accommodation in a shelter or an organised apartment, as well as victims of domestic violence, and victims of trafficking in persons who have been granted accommodation services, it is justified to recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee of 50% of the guaranteed minimum fee. This represents additional support when stopping the accommodation of those users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84816	SDP representative club co-worker Vosovac again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84817	I cannot accept your justification, or an explanation for why you do not accept this amendment. This article sets out the amount of minimum remuneration guaranteed to specific categories of persons, i.e. homeless persons, as you have told those at the shelter as well as victims of domestic violence and trafficking victims on temporary accommodation in crisis situations. We believe that compensation for homeless persons in shelters as well as for victims of domestic violence and victims of trafficking in people at temporary accommodation should be recognised at a rate of 100% of the amount guaranteed a minimum fee instead of a 50 per cent amount as proposed by this final bill of yours. I will repeat, it is particularly endangered categories of persons who are in a higher amount of financial assistance, regardless of whether they are within a certain type of accommodation. So I don't accept your argument and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84818	The tenth amendment by the representative, Renata Sablar-Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84819	Therefore, as the colleague has already said, these are particularly endangered categories of persons whose financial assistance is in excess of the circumstances of a particular type of accommodation. Women victims of domestic violence, and victims of trafficking, are most often persons who do not own housing properties but do not have a social support network and are at increased risk of homelessness equally when they leave temporary accommodation. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84820	You got it. 11th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84821	The amendment is not accepted. Since the purpose of the guaranteed minimum compensation is to settle the basic living needs of a homeless person who has been provided accommodation in a shelter or an organised apartment as well as a victim of domestic violence, and the victim of trafficking in persons admitted to the accommodation service is justified to recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee of 50% of the minimum fee. This represents additional support when stopping the accommodation of those users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84822	An obvious colleague of Ursha Raukar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84823	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84824	The 12th Amendment of the Renat Sablar-Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84825	The amendment is not accepted. The refusal to accept the offer of employment as well as the cancellation of the labour contract is considered sufficient grounds for non-recognition of the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84826	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84827	Thank you. This Article provides that the beneficiary of the right to a guaranteed minimum wage is obliged to accept employment, i.e. the right to a guaranteed minimum fee shall be terminated if the user or member of his household refuses to accept the offered employment or cancel the contract of employment, i.e. that the right will not be recognised within 6 months after he has refused to accept the offered employment or cancelled the contract of employment. There is no doubt a reasonable reason why users or members of their household may refuse employment or cancel a labour contract, as provided for in the regulation applicable to working relationships such as the circumstances of discrimination, harassment or mobbing at the workplace or other violations of labour regulations. I therefore believe that Article 34 should be amended in a proposed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84828	Okay. We're going to the 13th and 14th amendments. They're identical content. SDP advocates' club and Sablar-Dračevac's re-legislator, so please ask the State Secretary for an indication of both amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84829	The amendments are not accepted. The final draft law provides for the obligation to recognise the right of housing costs at least taking into account the increase in the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee. The possibility of recognising the right to the full amount of minimum compensation guaranteed does not need to be prescribed by law, because it does not constitute an obligation for the unit of local self-government and the city of Zagreb. They may recognise the right of an amount greater than that prescribed if they have the financial means to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84830	Okay. Here's an obvious colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84831	Great! You can tell by this how you're actually breaking a new law hard-earned and good rights under the old law. In a situation where inflation is wild, in a situation where people are faced with the effects of earthquakes, you decided to just cut the cost of housing to 30%. The local self-government units under this will be obliged to allocate for the cost of the user's housing 30%. We ask this amendment to increase that percentage to at least 50% because we consider it realistic. Because precisely from this fee for housing costs our socially endangered citizens of guaranteed minimum fees pay their directors and other choices do not have, they depend on the state. But you don't want to. The second part of the amendment is no less important that JLS or the City of Zagreb may, on particularly difficult living opportunities, recognise the compensation for housing costs and up to the full amount of the guaranteed minimum remuneration granted to a single or household. That solution has existed in the law so far, you're breaking it with this law, it's not good. Why? Because there are a number of cases where this is, special living circumstances where this is justified, for example. if we want to avoid the separation of a child from a parent. In some other difficult situations of life, for example. When homeless people come out of the shelter they don't have a chance to settle into some social city apartment and we know it's terribly hard for, to realize. They actually depend on the state. Also when it comes to elderly people with impaired health who, despite social benefits, are having a hard time finding an apartment in a rental. I'm very sorry that you didn't recognize the importance of this amendment and that some of the things that have been dealt with better in favour of the users now, you will also change this, you will not. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84832	14th Amendment of the Representative of the Republic of Sablar-Dračevac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84833	So, I agree with my colleague, Glasovac, and I won't repeat what she said, but what's very important is to say if we're not able as a state to ensure that they're paid as they've been so far why we don't have a certain amount of housing in social housing or social housing on the disposition for such heavily endangered citizens. We don't care enough about citizens in trouble. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84834	15th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84835	The amendment is not accepted. The amount, conditions and purpose of the single compensation right are prescribed by the final draft law, and the extraordinary costs for which the user is unable to meet the basic needs of life cannot be taxed because of the objective inability to predict all life situations. It is therefore necessary to maintain the current decision-making practice by discretionary assessment on the basis of the factual situation identified by all means suitable for proof in each individual case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84836	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84837	Thank you. I really agree that if it were the way you say it could be discreetly ensured that professional workers and social workers really be able to make such a decision. In practice, however, it is very different because it is precisely because of the compensation of all those who are too few people who cannot provide basic living needs enough and, in fact, a one - time compensation serves them as an additional compensation for the basic needs of life, which is not really the intensity of a one - time compensation. A one-time fee then loses its meaning and is not sufficiently recognized and users when they really need it, citizens who do not have the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, and address welfare centres should receive a one-time fee in order to meet their basic need, which is at that time primary. They do not have the opportunity to achieve this precisely because the system is not organised in a way that specifically assists this family, but in the sense that one-time compensation is divided into as much as at a level in a given month of funding in the system has per particular centre, which is not the meaning and intensity of actually one-time compensation. Therefore, we ask that this compensation fulfils its purpose by prescribing the regulation and to specify exactly what conditions, which are the costs, to prescribe additional situations in which citizens are present, and to specify exactly the cases justified when a greater fee can be granted and 10,000 kunas of one-off aid. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84838	16th Amendment of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84839	The amendment is not accepted. Extraordinary costs, as well as particularly justified cases for which the user is unable to meet the basic needs of life cannot be taxed because of the objective inability to predict all life situations. It is therefore necessary to maintain the current practice of decision-making by discretionary assessment on the basis of the factual situation established by all means appropriate for proof in each individual case, with a limitation of the level of right to one-off compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84840	Here's the obvious, same MP again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84841	Thank you. On the trail of what I said, I would just add and suggest that you do indeed an analysis of what purpose the one-time fees were paid in the past year, which were the users and the amounts of these fees were, so you will make sure that these were not exceptional costs resulting from the current living circumstances, but are there with the moss, so I can say freely and 80% of the benefits that were actually used to meet the basic needs of life because the benefits were too low in the welfare system. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84842	We will now go to the 17th Amendment Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84843	The amendment is not accepted. The exercise of the right to personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care under other regulations is for the recognition of the right to personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care in the social care system because no compensation for the same purpose can be received in two different sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84844	Here are my colleagues, Vucilović, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84845	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think the fundamental objective of the Social Care Act is to be fair. And what we at the Club of Croatian Sovereigns is that by eradicating these points and adding an article. 51.a. However, it achieved greater justice compared to the proposed legislative proposal, and then I ask that this amendment be voted on accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84846	We will now move to the 18th and 19th Amendments which are identical content, SDP Representatives' Club and Sablar-Dračevac's representative. Here's an indication of both amendments to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84847	The amendments are not accepted. The exercise of the right to personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care under other regulations is an obstacle to the recognition of the right to personal disability and to the allowance for assistance and care in the social care system and, therefore, it is not possible to recognise the difference of rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84848	Here you are, on behalf of the representative club, the SDP representative club co-worker Iljkić Vlasic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84849	Thank you. I understand, and that was the case in the previous law, that is, the current one, but we believe that people with disabilities really need to be identified in a way that gives them equal conditions, so we ask for coordination so that users can receive a special disability, i.e. an allowance in another system, and that they can be given the difference between these two amounts. In this way, he would actually get rid of himself in the same way, according to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and according to the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, where it is possible for disabled people. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84850	Okay. Same now...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84851	I agree with my colleague, therefore, that the proposal is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is identical to the law, the legal decisions of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family, as well as the Law on Civil Victims from the Homeland War in Art. 65.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84852	Okay. We are now going to the 20th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84853	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84854	Here are my colleagues, Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84855	Thank you very much. So I'm not going to repeat myself, but colleagues have said, so it's about people with disabilities having the same treatment that they've passed in the Law on Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War, Art. 64, i.e. the Civil Victims Act, Art. 64 65. We have proposed something similar, just nomotechnically in another way, and I also ask that we vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84856	21st Amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84857	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84858	Then he becomes an integral part of the bill. 22nd Amendment to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84859	The amendment is not accepted. The accepted amendment of Assembly MP Ljubice Lukačić, which is more favourable for users of the personal disability rights under which the right rests on the user who stays abroad for more than 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84860	My colleague Ursha Raukar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84861	I'm overjoyed. Thank you. It is always expected to be accepted by ruling. This one's better, I agree, but I'd still point out, i.e. She noticed that it was amazing that in the law at all it could happen to be put on for 2 months, when we know that it is minimal, that the usual tourist visa is 3 months, so, for future reasons, that such situations are discriminatory to people with disabilities or any vulnerable groups no longer happen to us. Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the amendment on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84862	You're pulling back? Okay. Thank you. 23rd Representative Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84863	The amendment is not accepted. The right to a personal disability in the situations described in Article is considered justified. 53 The final proposal of the Law on Social Welfare and accordingly, the adoption of a solution to the rest and termination of the right to a personal disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84864	I have to admit, I'm not familiar with what's art. accepted and whether this was partly accepted in that, and then I'll give my explanation. I suggest increasing the percentage of the base relative to the proposal to increase the percentage of the base for persons with a personal disability. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84865	Okay. We are going to the 24th and 25th Amendments, they are identical content, the SDP's Club of Representatives and the Sablar-Dračevac representative, please the State Secretary, an indication of both amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84866	The amendments are not accepted. The final proposal of the Social Care Act increased the amount of the basic or percentage base for people with the most severe health impairment and persons who do not have enough resources to meet the basic needs of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84867	Here's an indication, first of all, SDP Representatives' Club, Vlasic Iljkić, MPs, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84868	Thank you. Since you have increased your personal disability, we ask that the compensation for assistance and care be increased, especially since these are Grade 3 and Grade 2 damages, and the difference between Grade 3 and Grade 4 is indeed in some cases, is minimal and users also have large and increased living needs, given their difficult health conditions. We believe that harmonising or increasing the base from 120 to 150% for full-scale aid and care allowance and by 84% to 100% in the reduced range would ultimately result in an increase in aid and care allowance in full terms to 750 kuna and to a reduced volume to 500 kuna, which we believe is indeed special to persons with disabilities at this moment and thus equating actual treatment to all persons with disabilities in the context of this Act, and not only to increase the meaning of the category of personal disability. We're asking for a vote and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84869	I have already presented this argument before, and I hope that, as my colleague Raukar was very grateful for accepting the amendment, that this part that I said was also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84870	Now we will discuss the 26th and 27th amendments, the Green-left bloc representatives club and Zurovac MPs, and they are identical content, so please show on both amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84871	Thank you very much. The amendments are not accepted. Explanation as well as for the previous 2 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84872	My colleague Ursha Raukar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84873	Thank you. So we're staying with this amendment and we're looking for a vote for the simple reason that we should consider the costs of people with disabilities, we should bear in mind that these are the people who are most often in the less-paid jobs, which is also the problem of this society and this assembly. I believe that in a social society that is prescribed for us. The point of our Constitution should have much, much greater concern and sensitivity and knowledge of how they live and with what means for people with disabilities. And that is why I am teaching to stay with the motion to vote on this amendment and what we are predicting these increases, unfortunately, too little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84874	Here you go, Comrade Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84875	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd just like to point out that as far as all the amendments are concerned, on behalf of the Focus Club and the Independent Representatives... I'd primarily reroute the parents of the child who, unfortunately, is a person with disabilities, and quite a proposal of this amendment. So help and help have remained in the same amount as those with second and third degree disabilities and children with developmental difficulties with high levels of health damage. Therefore, we have asked for the coordination and raising of funds for those users with this proposal of the law to create an additional financial gap and one-hand is discriminated against by one group of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in relation to those with a fourth-degree disability. So we're going to ask for a natural vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84876	28 Amendments to the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84877	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as for the previous four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84878	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84879	Your Honor, we're staying on the amendment and we're looking for a vote. We believe that this increase in aid and care allowances for people with disabilities currently amounting to 600 kunas is simply not enough when we know that we have an overall increase in prices of products and services, and this increase from 600 to 1,000 kuna, I agree with my colleague, is also not an excessive one, but we believe that one small step is in the right direction and I repeat, we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84880	29th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84881	The amendment is not accepted. The right to compensation for assistance and care shall be recognised for the purpose of providing assistance and care to other persons in their home. The persons present at the accommodation shall have the assistance and care of other persons in the context of the accommodation service regardless of how the costs of the accommodation are paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84882	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84883	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, go ahead. Okay, it's all right. I just need to do it for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84884	Thank you very much. I started to explain what was actually very unfair because it often happens actually when users' services are completely apportioned by the cost of accommodation, so the one who cares for his user must contribute to the cost of his accommodation. It is very often such a case and, therefore, formally states that the conditions for receiving the property and income are only left in the event of the provision of aid and care allowances in a reduced range. If receiving neither property is a condition for a personal invalidity and full scope, it is also not a condition as the amount of receipt but the only property. In this, there is no social justice that those with the lowest income of 1,250 per single person and 1,000 kuna per family member do not have the right to pay for assistance and care. Therefore, we propose that income and property censorship and compensation for assistance and care be abolished and the conditions for all persons with disabilities are equal and that the right depends exclusively on the state of health or disability. We also consider the existence of a contract for life or life support to be an obstacle to the recognition of aid benefits. By eradicating the provisions, we equate the possibilities and rights of persons with disabilities and the only conditions that will be granted to the user will depend on the degree of damage to their functional abilities as determined by their skills. Persons self-settling of accommodation costs in social care institutions and other social services providers in a health or other institution or organised housing may receive An extra for... care and assistance. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84885	Time's up. We are moving on to two amendments again, once again, the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Representative Sablar Dračevac, these are amendments 30 and 31 of the same content. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84886	The amendments are not accepted. The exercise of the right to a personal disability and an allowance for assistance and care under other regulations is an obstacle to the recognition of the right to a personal disability and to an allowance for assistance and care in the social care system and, therefore, it is not possible to recognise the difference of rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84887	Who's going on behalf of the counseling club? Vlasic Iljkić MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84888	It is also the same in the case of a disabled person according to the principle of subsidiarity, so we demand that the same determination and resolution be made according to the legal solution and according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, where such a solution is possible. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84889	The MP doesn't have Sablar Dračevac, so we'll have to vote on the amendment. We're going to 32. Green-left block representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84890	The amendment is not accepted. That proposal is contrary to the principle of social justice as it concerns users with a mild degree of disability of functional impairment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84891	Who's going? Comrade Ursha Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84892	Thank you. Your Honor, we do not accept your argument we remain at the request for a vote. Therefore, this abolished income and property censorship for the exercise of the right to personal disability and would also have to be abolished for compensation for assistance and care because it is also a child with developmental difficulties or a person with disabilities but with a lower degree of damage. Do we really think that this small degree of damage represents less concern and less need? We can be absolutely sure not at the most. Therefore, we believe that persons with minor damage in this regard are discriminated against by others and therefore we remain at the request for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84893	Okay. We are now going to Amendment 33 of Maria Selak Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84894	The amendment is not accepted. The right to compensation for assistance and care shall be recognised for the purpose of providing assistance and care to other persons in their home. The persons present at the accommodation shall have the assistance and care of other persons in the context of the accommodation service regardless of how the costs of the accommodation are paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84895	Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84896	Therefore, I requested that Article 57 amend point 3 which is provided for accommodation in the establishment of social care with other social services providers in a health or other institution or organised housing in accordance with the provisions of this law or other regulations, unless the accommodation services are entirely subsidised from their own incomes of assets. I think it is necessary to regulate the issue of obtaining a personal disability in the case of users who settle their incomes in full the costs of the accommodation they receive on the basis of a solution or manual. The existing formulation of the bill to all categories of users of accommodation and organised housing services and of those who fully bear the cost of these services from their own incomes of property, as well as those who use these services on the burden of the ministry deny the right to a personal disability. It is therefore proposed to exclude persons who fully subsidise accommodation services from their own incomes and, in addition, by appropriate amendment to the provision of Article 45 of the draft law provides for this category of users an exemption from the possibility of simultaneously achieving the right to compensation for personal needs and personal disability. So, I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84897	We are now going to Amendments 34, 35 and 36 of Ljubica Lukačić, representative of Marija Selak Rasudić and representative of Daria Zurovc. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84898	The amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84899	They become an integral part of the law. Then let's go to the 37th Amendment of Representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84900	The amendment is accepted in the amended form through the accepted amendment by Parliament's MP Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84901	My colleague Peovic. Therefore, it is accepted in a modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84902	Yes, I must admit that he doesn't understand maybe the practice of why one amendment is accepted, and the other doesn't, but I certainly welcome that you accepted that amendment and then I withdraw this amendment, we don't have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84903	Thank you very much. We're going to the 38th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84904	The amendment shall not be accepted in relation to Amendment 38. The amendment shall not be accepted in relation to Article 58(2). The amendment shall be accepted in part in relation to Article 58(1) through the adopted amendment by Parliament's representative Ljubice Lukačić. Explanation. The final draft law left the income census only for the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities who, due to the severity of disability, are unable to meet life’s needs on their own or without the help of another person.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84905	Here you are on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Vlasic Iljlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84906	Thank you. It is good that you deleted that mistake that was made as we had indeed found that it was a mistake even though you did not want to make a clear and decident statement. And you deleted means the possibility that someone else will decide which right the user will receive whether it will be the right to an aid and care allowance or a personal disability. So you actually abolished such an option by changing it and thus calmed down all the users who addressed themselves through the children's associations with difficulties. Furthermore, we are asking for a vote on the amendment since paragraph 2 requires that the right to compensation for assistance and care in a reduced range be recognised by the person regardless of the property and income censorship and thus equalises the possibility of and all persons with disabilities in the context of this law and that we allow those with other and third damage regardless of incomes also to be entitled to compensation for assistance and care since it is not socially fair for persons with low incomes of 1,250 kuna for singles and 1,000 kuna per member of the family to have no allowance for assistance and care. I repeat, this is the only right relating to persons with disabilities left with property or income censorship. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84907	39th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84908	The amendment shall be accepted in part in relation to Article 58(1) through the adopted amendment of the parliamentary representative Ljubice Lukačić, and shall not be accepted in relation to Article 58(2), the statement shall be the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84909	Comrade Ursha Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84910	Thank you. So we're as glad as your colleague that you accepted the record I'd say a mistake. And for this part that you do not accept, we remain at the vote, the motion to vote, we do not accept your argument because we want to point out the need to abolish the censorship for persons who have established a second degree of disability to damage functional ability and to grant the right to pay and help and care to persons who have identified the first degree of disability of 120% of the basics for the simple reason that we do not believe that such a difference can be made to this article. Given the needs of the first and second degree damages, I think our amendment is highly justified and I remain at the vote request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84911	40th Amendment of Representative Dario Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84912	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law left the income census only for the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities who, due to the severity of disability, are not able to meet life’s needs on their own or without the help of another person.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84913	Here's a colleague of Zurovec's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84914	Here's to begin by thanking you for accepting the previous amendment, here on behalf of the parents who unfortunately are in an unspeakable situation. As for this amendment to Art. I'd just like to explain a little bit, so if anything else thinks about the future. The life-threatening circumstance that someone has any degree of physical damage in this case is the second degree, and according to the constitution of guaranteed rights, and as the basic provisions are, in particular, according to Article. 1. The Republic of Croatia is a unique and indivisible democratic and social state, and I consider it necessary to prove or show in this particular case that there is no need to... We discriminate against people with disabilities through the bill. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Depending on the degree of physical damage... Such a way creates a really unnecessary gap between those groups, and their life is additionally difficult, which is complex enough, really otherwise full of obstacles and a lot of prejudice. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, thanks for the last amendment, and I hope that something like this will be accepted in the future. I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84915	We're going to 41. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84916	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84917	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84918	Thank you. We propose that the article be deleted as the conditions of property and income censorship are lifted, since the article is not applicable in this case. We continue to propose that income and property censorships be abolished for aid and care and equalised all persons with disabilities, and that the right depends exclusively on the state of health or the degree of disability. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84919	42nd Amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84920	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84921	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 43rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84922	The amendment is not accepted. It is believed that it is necessary to maintain the right to an allowance for assistance and care during the stay of users in the investigating prison, to maintain the sentence of the prison, to a health institution, and the duration of the stay of the users abroad has been extended for more than 6 months through the accepted amendment of Parliament's representative Ljubice Lukačić, who is more favourable to users of the allowance for assistance and care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84923	My colleague Vlasic Iljkic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84924	Thank you. Since you have abolished those provisions in your personal disability, I really do not understand why it means an allowance for the assistance and care of a person in a prison of investigation, for the maintenance of a prison sentence, and for the health care institution that the right to an aid and care allowance does not rest except in the case of a stay abroad. We believe that a person with disabilities and a person with disabilities was a third degree, a fourth degree, and that the same provisions should be applied regarding staying in this part of the prison and maintaining a prison sentence, so we don't understand why you suspended it with your personal disability, and you left it at the surcharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84925	44. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84926	The amendment is not accepted. The duration of stay of users abroad has been extended over a period of more than 6 months through the accepted amendment of Parliamentary representative Ljubica Lukačić, who is more favourable for users of the right to an allowance for assistance and care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84927	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84928	Yeah, I understand, wonderful, wonderful, I'm really grateful that it was raised from three months to six. I'm touched, and I'd like us to treat all sensitive categories that way. I thank and withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84929	Okay. 45th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84930	The amendment is not accepted. The duration of stay of users abroad has been extended over a period of more than 6 months through the accepted amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84931	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84932	Yeah, well, I'm glad to see you. This is already the second amendment to be accepted indirectly. Of course, it is to expect that the amendments of the HDZ Club are preferred and the way they are formulated, but regardless of which I think the purpose of this is achieved, so I will withdraw this amendment and I am glad that there is open room for cooperation in at least some parts because this is one of the laws that really needs a major improvement, and unfortunately it will be even more crucial in the coming period for Croatia in view of the growing lack of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84933	Amendment 46. Representative Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84934	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84935	Since the MPs are gone, we'll vote. We are now going to the 47th and 48th Amendments Club of Representatives of SDP and Representative Sablar-Dračevac, is the same content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84936	The amendments are not accepted. Conditions of Art. 61st includes children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities with the most severe health damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84937	Okay. On behalf of the club, again, representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84938	This proposal would allow us to exercise the right to status for those immobilised persons and with the help of orthopaedic aid and persons with a type of health damage that is not physical, whose intensity and maximum degree condition complete dependence in meeting life needs and care activities, so we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84939	Amendment 48. There is no representative Sablar-Dračevac. It'll be voiced about him, too. 49. Green-left block advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84940	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84941	Here's a statement from my colleague Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84942	Thank you. We remain at the request for a vote and do not accept your argument because we simply believe that it is necessary in a unique way to cover all categories of people with disabilities, all types of disability regardless of the existence of one or more of these difficulties. It's kind of about elementary justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84943	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84944	I said "honored" at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84945	I'm sorry, I didn't catch it. Okay. We're going to the 50th Amendment of MP Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84946	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84947	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendments 51, 52 and 53 are identical content of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives Sablar-Dračevac, so please give me a unique explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84948	The amendments are not accepted because the amendment of Parliament's representative Ljubice Lukacic is accepted, which makes it more clear which persons can take care of a person with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84949	Okay. Let's go with the signs. 51. SDP colleague Vupra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84950	Dear Members, we do not accept the argument and ask the vote on the amendment because it is necessary to provide for opportunities for the exercise of rights and for those who need support in the family and who do not have family members, households who want to and can provide it. We therefore consider it justified to extend the circle of carers and even to persons outside the family circle. If there are no persons in the family who wish to benefit from the status of a care provider or a person without family members or persons with disabilities do not want to support family members but other persons are placed in a more unfavourable position by the decision of status on members of the household and this is directly contrary to the very purpose of this right, as well as the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of Articles 5, 19 and 28 of the right to live with a family without separation in an institution, it is clearly defined by the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the right to Family Life and the special protection of persons with Disabilities guarantee the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84951	52. A club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns. Here are my colleagues, Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84952	Thank you very much. Since our amendment is something... It's what my colleague Lukacic suggested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We ask that it be voted, because we believe that the right to live in a family without being singled out in an institution is defined by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and ultimately it is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so we think that this circle should be expanded and not only does this mean what counterpart Lukacic has proposed, meaning where children are concerned with the category of persons with disabilities, but also all categories. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84953	Okay. And co-worker Sablar-Dračevac, since she is gone, we will also vote on the 53rd amendment. Amendments 54 and 55 are again identical to the SDP's and Sablar-Dračevac MPs' Club. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84954	The amendments are not accepted since a number of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities are not subject to an objective health condition, however, it is not possible to include in programmes and services in the community to increase the compensation of parents to carers or carers. They are above all primarily obliged to take account of the best interests of a child with developmental difficulties, i.e. persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84955	I do not agree with the argument and I ask the vote on the amendment, because it is also necessary to avoid the danger that the care provider's interest in increased compensation... persons with disabilities of a child with developmental difficulties, to be included in service programmes in the community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legislative proposal should avoid distinctions on the level of compensation depending on whether a person with disabilities is involved in programmes and services in the community. We express great concern about determining the key fact that a person cannot be included because of the health condition, and since this is not defined on the basis of which criteria this fact should be established. Inclusion in community service programmes, designing different services and opportunities should be a priority objective of social policy. It is primarily necessary to direct all social forces to provide all types of programmes and services in the community for all persons in need, so it is necessary for people with the most difficult disability, while at the same time enabling families to function uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84956	Okay. The 55th is the amendment of MP Sablar-Dračevac. We'll vote on him. Now we have two amendments to the same content in 56 and 57. SDP's representative club and Sablar-Dračevac's representative. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84957	The amendments are not accepted. During the final draft of the law, amendments have been made to Article 68(2) which produce the same legal consequences, as the right to the status of parents, carers or carers ceases if a person with disabilities, or its legal representative withdraws its consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84958	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club Antolic-Vopora MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84959	Your Honor, we do not accept this argument and we are asking for a vote on the amendment. That's what I'm supposed to say in the end, actually, and now I'm going to explain. The proposal is in line with the provision of Article 63(3), providing persons with disabilities with active participation in decision-making, exercise of rights and termination of rights. The legislative proposal does not stipulate that only a person with disabilities can seek the termination of this right, which puts him in the position of the property of the right. The D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities has so far received more questions from persons with disabilities about the possibility of personally affecting the termination of their status most frequently because of their intention to conclude a marriage, and other reasons for going to study, preferred use of personal assistant services, etc., the inability to decide in any way on the termination of the right to parent status or the status of carer or... the custodian is in direct contrast to the Article. 12, Art. Article 17 19, 21 and 22 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child with Disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We continue to stress that the status of the guardian should be the right of the child, the person with disabilities to Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84960	The 57th Amendment of Representative Sablar-Dračevac, we will vote. 58th, Green-left bloc advocates' club. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84961	The amendment is not accepted. The right to the status of parents of carers or carers shall be linked to the care of a child with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities, which is why there is no basis for the proposed change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84962	Comrade Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84963	Thank you. I believe he has every basis for the proposed change. This has been a request for years from the community of persons with disabilities and their carers. It's a very difficult situation when a person with disabilities or a child with developmental difficulties dies and their foster parents who have cared for them for years remain overnight without all means of life, have no right to time of mourning, have no right to psychological assistance, have no right in time for requalification, for qualifications, because they have been absent from the labour market for years precisely because they have nurtured persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. The elemental social state that we are guaranteed, I have already quoted today, as well as my colleague Zurovec 1st Art. The Constitution of the And besides, human kind of and.../incomprehensible/... reasons humanly require us to recognise in the law the difficulty and weight of those tasks carried out by carers and foster parents, so it is minimum to allow them to have this period of 6 months and mourning both for psychological assistance and for adjustments to return to the labour market. Because they do what they do not arrive and cannot perform institutions. This time I insist strongly on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84964	Then we'll vote hard Okay. [[/Intruder: Well, it would be good if you voted hard for it. Thank you.]] We are now going to the 59th and 60th Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Representative Sablar-Dračevac. Identical content, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84965	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84966	Here you are on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. - Here you go, pals. We are now going to the 20th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. We are now going to the 59th and 60th Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Representative Sablar-Dračevac. Identical content, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84967	The amendment is not accepted. Amendments are not accepted, it is a completely new service for which no service provider, service content and duration is proposed, which is necessary for the provision of any service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84968	SDP representative club, colleague Antolic Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84969	Thank you. The law needs to be installed a new service. Helping and supporting parents with disabilities. This obligation arises from Art. 23 The Convention on the Rights of the Child with Disabilities, which is a designated duty of the State of the Signatory to provide adequate assistance to persons with disabilities and to carry out their duties in raising children. Without the existence of a parental support system for disabled persons, there is a risk of separation from parents, only based on the existence of parental disability. All of the above, proposed in accordance with Article. 7, 8 and 9 The Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84970	It is the 60th Amendment of Representative Sablar-Dračevac and we will vote on it. We're now going to the 61st representative, Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84971	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84972	Here are the MPs, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84973	So I cannot accept this argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on because it is one of those amendments which, in substance, change the intensity of this Law. What I find problematic here, and what professional associations have pointed out, is the way social services are prescribed, and this law tends to prescribe social services. So the previous 10 social services, the number of social services has increased to 15 but no significant qualitative change has been made, and what is happening now? We have, I don't know by what criteria these 15 services are currently set out, and there is a possibility that some new services will have to be included in these services and that this will happen at a faster pace than the law is being amended. For this reason, our proposal was to regulate social services in a different way, that is to say, to prescribe them more as a cluster of services, which can then be followed by different social services. So social services, we asked to change and read, accommodation services outside of our own home, under a, sub b, community support services for inclusion, education, employment and life of the community, under c, services for psychosocial empowerment of users and floor, assistance services for everyday life and assistance in the home of users. Thus, we would allow all the social services that will appear in the future to fall under these clusters and solve the problem of changing or unclear criteria that all social services can enter into the law, and others, such as assistance, which are extremely important within this, these prescribed services are excluded. I'll ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84974	62nd Amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84975	The amendment is not accepted. For all services, the final proposal of the law prescribed their duration for the purpose of the full organisation of the scope of the service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84976	Who's going? Make a deal. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84977	Thank you very much. We'll make a quick deal at our club. So like this, I disagree with you because you can't, I mean it's life and different needs and you can't prescribe the duration of a particular service that will last so many weeks, and at that week so many times. Our amendment goes in this direction to actually erase words up to three meetings, and extremely according to the expert's assessment up to five meetings because it is impossible to specify the number of consultations and it is impossible to quantify the actual number of counsellings because it depends on individual cases and on family circumstances. And if we imagine a social care system as such a kind of transport and service that needs to be raised by any specific case, then it is insane to unify the duration of the service in this way or to maximise it by a certain number, which is the maximum one that one can get from the social care system because it may need a lot more. And maybe it's because of what he's going to need... and we're going to have some newspaper articles or inscriptions that none of us really want some tragic cases. I disagree with your explanation for the amendment and I demand a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84978	The 63rd Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84979	The amendment is not accepted. The purpose of the provision in question is to protect users of compensation for assistance and care, which provides for an exception to the approval of home assistance services for activities which cannot be provided to them by persons from art. The 100th century is the 1st century. Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84980	Who's going now? Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please. Comrade Voter, just turn yourself off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84981	Thank you. Therefore, the article prescribes that the home assistance service can be granted to both the exceptional and the user of the aid and care allowance. In fact, the word is used as remarkablely as in the current law, which we think is not good because it does not determine what the exceptions are that you can rightly recognise the user’s aid and care allowance. If it does not say anywhere where the obstacle is, if the user is an aid and care allowance, why should he indicate that it can be exceptionally approved? Therefore, the above impressions that the user is not accessing the user through individual access but is a matter of availability within the system and resources. If we have an increased number of those users who have help in the house and care allowance, we can have some kind of indication by the professionals why, but nowhere does it really prescribe why it would not be in the interest and in favour of the users. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84982	64th Amendment of the same Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84983	The amendment is not accepted. Content of the services of organised housing and insurance of dwellings with permanent or occasional professional or other assistance or support to those users whose needs cannot be met in their own family or home, by providing others outside of institutional social services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84984	Here's a statement from my colleague Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84985	Thank you, Mr. President. I really didn't understand the explanation here honestly, so I'm good at voting requests, but I would still mention one thing and the same thing to see you in such bureaucratic thinking, we lose reality, we lose a man. Why have we submitted this amendment? For the simple reason that a certain number of people with disabilities owns their own properties, but they need support to stay there. The expansion of the providers of organised housing is often an obstacle precisely to the lack of real estate, the lack of housing units and in this way we consider and we are sure using our own properties could affect this situation. For people with disabilities, it is certainly a better quality and satisfying life, so this is just a matter of how to tell the expansion of the view beyond the narrow bureaucratic provisions. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84986	65th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84987	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the fact that it is a user in the welfare system who is not satisfied with the service provided, the conduct or failure of persons performing the social care activity cannot be taken into account. On behalf of the user, the complaint may be filed by his legal representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84988	My colleague Antoliæ Vupra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84989	Thank you very much. We're not satisfied with the explanation. Since the applicable social service quality rules provide that family and other interested parties may appeal to decisions taken by competent authorities or individual employees and require and obtain a solution to the complaint of the service provider without fear of full confidence that all their objections will be answered. Standard 10, objections and complaints. We therefore believe that the new law should not go below that standard. It is also unacceptable that, for example, family members pay or participate in paying the cost of accommodation services at home without being able to lodge a complaint about the quality of the service for which they bear the costs. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84990	66th Amendment of Representative Sablar Dračevac. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84991	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84992	We'll also vote on that amendment. 67. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84993	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84994	Antoliæ Vupra's testimony, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84995	We are not pleased that it has not been accepted and I further explain that the establishment of a decision-making committee on the basis of a complaint from the applicant who is not satisfied with the ministry is sent to the citizens that the ministry in decision-making plays are biased, that it does not adhere to the legal provisions and protects the institutions to which it is the founder. It's a bad message that creates mistrust in the legality of the work of institutions. The number of performances exceed the possibilities of a few commission members to study them, consult and take an opinion particularly if they are not close to the issue. It is common for individuals to appear daily and write complaints and complain about any decision often unfoundedly heavy burdens the system is now being given a more procedural space. The establishment of the Board of Appeals is immaterial and harmful to the profession and users themselves. If the public intensities are approached, the behaviour of professional workers is brought closer and the direction of development and working methods can be questioned by the ministry, increased public debates in society with an interested public and will be assessed by the behaviours and also by the public to communicate clearly the expectations and opportunities of users in the current social care system. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84996	68th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84997	The amendment is not accepted since administrative proceedings cannot be initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84998	Here's an indication, MP Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u84999	Thank you. Therefore, the establishment of the Board of Appeals is considered against the law, it is indeed both a harmful and dangerous precedent and it is our biggest objection to the new Social Care Act. This is where you step away from the usual administrative control mechanism, these are administrative acts. The establishment of the commission violates the legal order and establishes a system of control of administrative acts by means of decisions of administrative courts, so we have also proposed that administrative dispute can be initiated against the decisions of the ministry and users are also being violated by their constitutional rights of appeal against the body providing legal protection within the meaning of Article 18. The Constitution and the right to judicial control of the legality of individual administrative acts of the Authority. Namely, why do we claim that this is a violation of constitutional rights? Because the Constitution guarantees the right to appeal before a court or other authorised body, and this right may be exceptionally excluded in cases of a certain law if other legal protection is provided. Now, bearing in mind that this commission consists of 5 representatives of citizens who do not have legal training, it is obvious that such a body cannot be considered a body that could provide legal protection to users in the sense that it is guaranteed by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We're asking for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85000	69th same club of MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85001	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. The conditions for a member of the commission should be laid down accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85002	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85003	Thank you. Since conditions for a member of the commission are already imagined, it is obvious that this body will not be considered to be either professional or independent. Therefore, this provision prescribed general conditions for a member of the commission, among which not listed as a criterion of species and a degree of expertise. Such composition of the commission degrades the expertise required in the implementation of this law in both the first and second stages and does not guarantee the user that the control of administrative acts and procedures of the competent authorities and institutions will be carried out in accordance with the constitutional guarantees set out in Articles 18 and 19. The Constitution of the Therefore, the commission as a second-degree body should be completely abolished and those mechanisms of legal protection that are common in our legal order should be put in place and given up on this very harmful and dangerous precedent. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85004	The 70th Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85005	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85006	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85007	Thank you. Therefore, this article is prescribed as a criterion for a member of the commission to be a person who enjoys professional and personal reputation and has at least 5 years of experience in the field of family legal protection with victims of violence or in the field of social care. Thus, the criteria put forward fully deny the importance of professional preparation by type and degree necessary for the proper assessment of the work and legality of work in the implementation of the Social Care Act. Therefore, this law regulates the rights and obligations of the most vulnerable individuals and the most vulnerable social groups. From the point of view of constitutional guarantees, it is necessary to ensure constitutionally acceptable control over the way the rights under this law are recognised in its implementation. The control carried out by a committee composed of 5 members as a representative of citizens, not a representative of a profession for which no prescribed expert preparation is required, cannot be considered as a constitutionally acceptable way of legal protection against acts and procedures carried out by social security authorities. We ask therefore to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85008	The 71st Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85009	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary, as mentioned above, to prescribe the mandate of the members and the selection of the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85010	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85011	Thank you. As with the preceding articles, I suggest that the commission be abolished as a secondary body, and that it give up on this concave idea. By prescribing the term of office and the duration of the term of office with the possibility of re-election and without any restrictions on the election of presidents and vice-presidents at the constitutive session between the members themselves, it all points to the conclusion that the members of the commission have office status and it is not also defined that the members of the commission also have obligations arising from such status. Therefore, this commission is unnecessary, it cannot exercise legal protection over the work and decisions of the Ministry in implementing the Social Care Act, so your allegations are that this body will act independently and as such exercise control over the executive authorities are completely unfounded and flat-rate. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85012	The 72nd Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85013	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. Accordingly, it is necessary to prescribe a discharge of a member of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85014	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85015	Thank you. We propose, as with the other amendments, that this idea of the commission be completely abolished as a secondary body. It's a really weird beak. There is no such body in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know why we decided on this model. I do not see the benefit of such a form of control that could be produced except for the arbitraryness, co-existence and re-treatment of social benefits and social rights guaranteed by this law in one way that one can be granted without adequate control whether the provisions of the law are applied correctly. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85016	You got it. We're going to 73. It's an amendment to the same club of representatives. With us now is Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa instead of her colleague, Mađarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85017	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary, as stated above, to prescribe the protection of the confidentiality of data by members of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85018	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85019	Thank you. So, I suggest that the commission be abolished as a second-degree body and that it give up this concave idea that departs from the entire legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This particular article provides that the members of the commission are obliged to keep the confidentiality of personal data they have learned in resolving complaints about the work of professional workers in social care institutions, which further highlights the constitutional and legal unacceptable situation in which supervision of the work of professional workers is entrusted to a body whose members do not necessarily have any professional and legal competence to make decisions on the complaints made. I do not believe that at the level of bodies in other EU Member States, there is such an example of a five-member institution which, without any knowledge, decides without any criteria on such sensitive legal issues. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85020	The 74th Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85021	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission should be laid down accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85022	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85023	And that Rules of Procedure will only prescribe that commission. Therefore, this provision stipulates that the Committee shall adopt a Rules of Procedure governing matters from its own circle. In view of the fact that the procedure in which the commission only makes a decision on the complaints lodged, it is therefore not so prescribed in any other place. These rules of procedure may and must provide for rules of conduct before that committee. In his previous practice, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has repeatedly stressed that the provisions governing someone's rights, so procedural provisions can only be prescribed and regulated by law and not by some internal sublaw. In this particular case, the act adopted only by that body which implements the procedure. Therefore, this article of the law is also constitutionally unacceptable in light of and in that sense, as already explained in the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and in several key cases and in the law, such practice has so far been consistently confirmed. So I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85024	The 75th Amendment to the GLAS Representatives Club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85025	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary, as mentioned above, to prescribe the handling of the complaint committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85026	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85027	We propose that the removal of the commission as a secondary body, given that it is constitutionally-legally unacceptable. It follows from this article that if the Commission finds that the complaint was established by the Ministry it is then duty to re-determin the founding of the first complaint and thus clearly results in the Commission having powers similar to those of the court, in judicial control of the legality of the work and acts of the administrative authority. And given the composition and the way the commission works, which is defined by these rules of procedure, which I had previously challenged, because the Rules of Procedure only brings the commission. Such a body is a constitutionally and legally unacceptable form of control. This Article also provides for administrative and technical assistance to the Commission to be provided by the Ministry. This very situation in which the administrative and technical assistance of the control body is provided by the body whose work and decisions should be controlled is the situation of an institutional conflict of interest in which there is no sufficient level of independence and impartiality of the Commission, so all of your allegations that you persistently repeat that the Commission will act independently, completely flat-rate and miss. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85028	The 76th Amendment is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85029	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as independent in order to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary, as mentioned above, to lay down the procedures for the decision of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85030	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85031	And these powers of the Commission are constitutionally unacceptable. Therefore, this article provides that the Commission may propose to the Ministry the exercise of supervision of an expert or expert team in respect of which it has been established in a calendar year within 3 years that complaints have been lodged. It is constitutionally unacceptable that the Committee, as a body that neither professional nor professional, nor legal qualifications, determines the basis of the complaint on the work of an expert or an expert team, and that, for the sake of 3 such decisions, it can still order the Ministry to exercise its supervision over that professional worker. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85032	77th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85033	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary to provide for the submission of an annual report to HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85034	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85035	Thank you. So the Commission's action will be counter-constitutional, as is its establishment. This specific provision stipulates that the Commission will report on its work to HS once a year and that neither the purpose of this report nor the consequences of its eventual adoption or non-admission is indicated. For example, it is not defined whether the purpose of this report is to assess, on the basis of it, the work of the Commission itself or to obtain a picture of the state of social security in the Republic of Croatia in order to take any further steps in the competence of the HS or to establish the possible responsibility of the resolution ministry. As I said, everything points out that the establishment and work of the commission is one extremely unconstitutional and bizarre category, we propose that it be abolished, and we ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85036	78th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85037	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. It is necessary to provide for compensation for a member of the Committee, as stated above.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85038	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85039	Thank you. We propose that the Commission be abolished as a second-degree body and instead carry out judicial control of the legality in the administrative dispute before the competent administrative courts. So in the Croatian legal order, there is nothing or anything similar to this nakaradian body. With this particular provision, you imagined that a member of the Committee was entitled to a fee of 1% of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year for each completed case, which puts the body in control of the work of the public authority in a situation in which they were paid by effect. They are motivated to resolve the cases in such a way as to generate them themselves, i.e. to encourage the submission of new complaints to be addressed in a way that these complaints are accepted, which can seriously endanger both impartiality and objectivity in the work of the Commission itself and also further jeopardise the rights and interests of users of the social security system. I am really asking you to give up this idea and delete from the full law all provisions relating to the Board of Appeal's decision on the basis of the complaint and ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85040	79th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85041	The amendment is not accepted. The Commission will act as an independent body to better protect the users of the system. It will decide on the basis of the complaint of the applicant concerning the service and the conduct of the persons performing the social care activity. According to the above, it is necessary to provide for a record of the complaint.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85042	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85043	Thank you. We propose that the Commission be abolished as a second-degree body and instead carry out judicial control of the legality in the administrative dispute before the competent administrative courts. So this article was provided for by the Ministry to keep track of complaints. In the Croatian legal order, there is no known case in which, for the purposes of the control bodies, the records of the items received and the records of their further status would be kept by the same body whose decisions in the complaints are being challenged. Such a solution endangers the independence of the Committee's work and decision, so I urge you to give up this concise idea and demand that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85044	The 80th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85045	The amendment is not accepted. The records of the contracts concluded on the availability of assets in which life-restraint contracts and life-restraint contracts are entered cannot be in the jurisdiction of the welfare system since those contracts can be concluded by any person who assesses that the same is in its interest and does not have to be a beneficiary of the welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85046	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85047	Thank you. Therefore, the introduction of this register was one of the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the 2019 report, and its establishment and management is proposed in order to increase transparency and control if legal and physical persons carrying out the social care activities of the prescribed ban on the conclusion of such contracts with users are adhered to. In practice, it is known that such contracts are made in spite of explicitly prescribed nothingness. In doing so, those who break the ban rely on poor information from the abstention recipients and on the small chance that such a contract will be annulled by judicial means. The register is also necessary for the legal implementation of other provisions of this law since the existence of a life or life-long maintenance contract is an obstacle to the achievement of certain social services. I'm really surprised that you refused to form a register like this, I'm saying this isn't just our amendment. This is a proposal from the competent state body that has noticed in practice and pointed out that in its report. I would like to know how the Resort Ministry will exercise control of the compliance and respect of other provisions of this law if you do not have such a register and if you cannot verify that social care homes have concluded such a worthless contract with their users. So the whole law is one hollow farce. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85048	Amendment 81. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85049	The amendment is not accepted. Within the framework of the delegated public powers, the Institute will carry out services related to the activities of the nanny and will resolve in the first degree the fulfilment of the conditions, not family centres, which will provide preventive and treatmental services and will not carry out administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85050	Look around, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85051	Thank you. We are looking for an amendment that means jobs related to a family centre or to a nanny are still being carried out at a family centre such as the family center branch, since we believe that the jobs of the nanny are more based on the preventive nature of the meaning of the current branches of family centres or future family, future family centre with their branches or outposts so that we remain in favour of the amendment of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85052	Amendment 82. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85053	The amendment is not accepted. Obligators to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are governed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85054	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85055	So, when this assembly discussed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I specifically asked for the provision to be made and that this law would come into force soon and that members of the Governing Council were explicitly regarded as officials. It wasn't done in that law and now you refuse to do it in this. So this law essentially creates a single mega-body existing, existing 72 social care centres are now being placed under the roof of a new institution of the Croatian Social Care Centre. This body will receive an administrative council, a very, very powerful people in the welfare system who will decide on everything that has been decided so far by all these small islands of social security in certain environments. And you people don't want to follow the rules about preventing conflicts of interest. The question is, why? Therefore, the office is managed by the administrative council appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means that they will in some way be politically similar. For a four-year term. From all of this, their position, level of responsibility, and thus necessarily linked to corruption risk are such that it is identical to that level that exists in all other categories of taxpayers under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I find it extremely insane and unacceptable to have your argument and ask for this amendment to be voted upon. Therefore, the short and clear members of the Board of Directors of the Department of Social Care must be officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85056	Amendment 83. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85057	The amendment is not accepted. Obligators to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are governed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85058	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85059	It is a shame that the rules of the Rules of Procedure are such that I cannot ask you the question now so that you are obliged to answer the question and my question would be whether under the Law on the prevention of conflicts of conflict of interest which has recently been adopted and entered into force, the Director of the Office, Deputy Director and Assistant Directors in the sense of this law, I would ask for an answer very brief or clear, yes or no. Since the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has already entered into force, given that this law does not explicitly provide for a body that is yet to be established in the interest of legal certainty and accuracy in the interests of this law, it would be good if we explicitly stated in this law that these persons whom I have cited, namely the Director of the Office, Deputy Director and Assistant Directors of Officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85060	Amendment 84. It's the Center and Voice Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85061	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law proposes that the statute of the Institute as an independent legal person with public persons be adopted by the Administrative Council with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85062	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85063	Thank you. In short, this amendment asked for the statutes of the institution to be brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And why is that? So because Article 180 of this Law stipulates that the choice, the detour and the responsibility of the Governing Council is determined by the statutes, so the choice, the detour, the responsibility of the Governing Council. The situation in which the statute would be adopted by the Administrative Council would constitute an institutionalised conflict of interest which is as such unacceptable. Since it's an art. The 177th century of this law stipulates that the Institute is required to inform the Ministry of its work once a year by 31 January in the preceding year, and that it is an art. In 178th of 4th of this law, it is prescribed that every year the Institute is obliged to submit a statistical report to the Ministry by 31 March of each year that the Institute is considered to be a body that corresponds to the Executive Authority for its work and it is justified that the power to adopt the statutes of the Institute is entrusted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and not to the body itself to the Governing Council which would bring the document, would bring an act to define the choice itself, hence the way of choice, the partial work and its own responsibility. So, in such a case, I really don't know in the Croatian legal order, and I don't understand why the legislator for such a silly solution in this law has decided. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85064	85th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85065	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of the family centre are different from the activities of the institutions, which require the establishment of a family centre as an independent institution to carry out the tasks of advisory, preventive and other professional work for children, young people and families in the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85066	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85067	... the fact that the family centre carries out different activities does not mean that different activities cannot be carried out within the same institution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when you went to rationalize the system in a way that you put the existing welfare centers under the cap of a single institution, then you had to go with these ideas to the end. In fact, there is no reasonable reason for the activities of the family centre to be carried out completely separate from the system for the provision of all other social services under this law. Therefore, it would be more rational and operationally simpler for family centres to be formed as a structural unit within Croatia, within the Social Care Office. What you're actually going to get by building a family centre is that we have another institution where certain personnel will be taken care of, and those intentions that the profession has actually criticised, but let's start by giving the government a chance to show that rationalization could be achieved and a certain benefit, so all of this will be questioned because of what you'll be leading the family centres along a separate track. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85068	86th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85069	The amendment is not accepted. Family centres will provide preventive and treatmental services and will not conduct administrative procedures. Within the framework of the delegation of public powers, the Institute will carry out nanny activities and address in the first instance the conditions for the nanny's activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85070	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85071	As I was saying earlier, I believe that there is a more reliant nanny activity and belongs to the family centre than the institution, regardless of what the administrative procedure is and the administrative procedure is now being conducted at the family centre, and we see no reason why no administrative procedure could also be carried out in the future institution and a solution could be made to carry out the activities in accordance with the Nanny Act. In fact, it is an activity that represents extra-institutional care for children, which is in a number of ways related to the activities of the family centre precisely because it is supporting family in a broader sense, meaning it is not based on users, which is the intensity of the entire Family Law or the family center of the future so that future users do not get up to date, to expand the circle of users, to provide services to citizens in the local community, so that we think that really the jobs are absolutely dependent on the jobs of the family centre. We don't see any sense of connection with the Bureau, and we're really looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85072	87th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85073	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of the institute are different from the activities of the family centre, for which it is proposed to establish a family centre as an independent institution managed by the administrative council in accordance with the law governing the establishment and establishment of institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85074	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85075	As I said, it is proposed to establish a family centre as a founding unit within the institution, not as an independent special state body. The existence of the Governing Council is therefore absolutely unnecessary. But since you have already decided on a special state body that will have its own special administrative council, I really don't understand why you resist so much that you explicitly state that the members of the Governing Council are in the light of the powers they have, given the power and position that officials have in terms of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, I demand that this amendment be made to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85076	88th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85077	The amendment is not accepted. Obligators to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are governed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85078	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85079	Thank you. You have read it well, you are very dryly repeating already through several provisions that officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests are prescribed by this law, and I am convinced that even if you could not do so by the Rules of Procedure at this time, you cannot clearly and decidently show whether members of the Governing Council are directors and assistants of the family centre, officials or bonds of conduct under the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or not? I repeat, the Law on Conflict of Interest is an earlier law, it has been passed, it is defined as a circle of those to which this Law is adopted, these bodies are established after the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has already entered into force, so it is in the interest of legal certainty and precision that it is intelligent and in the public interest that it is explicitly said that members of the Governing Council, but also directors and assistants of the family centre, officials within the meaning of this Act, I say, when you have already decided to establish family centres as a special independent state body. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85080	89th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85081	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of the Institute are different from the activities of the family centre for which it proposes the establishment of a family centre as an independent institution, which will perform the tasks of advisory and preventive work and other professional jobs for children, young people and families at the level of the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85082	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85083	Therefore, if the activities of the family centres were very different so that they could not get involved in any way with those topics and areas covered by the Croatian Centre for Social Care, then it would not be logical that the activities of the family centres should be governed by this Act at all but a special law should be passed for each of these activities. So in the same way that you have defined preventive treatment in the welfare system by the same law that you define and everything else, and by the same logic, all of this could be put under the authority of one institution, which is, in practice, when we talk about users, when we talk about individuals or social groups that are at some stage of life in an unfavourable life situation, very often we have a simultaneous application of these preventive and other measures. Therefore, I repeat, there is no rational justification that the activities of the family centre are being conducted in a separate institution, and then everything this article defines is actually unnecessary, it is unnecessary to adopt specific statutes and internal acts of the new institution, rather than simply put family centres as a establishment unit within the Institute itself, and we can define the way of work by means of a labour regulation, a regulation on internal systemisation and other general acts. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85084	The 90th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85085	The amendment is not accepted. The Academy is established as a public institution to develop, standardise, organise and implement a programme of permanent professional training of professionals and other workers in the social care system in cooperation with the Ministry, professional chambers, academic community and social care institutions. The Academy will perfect the professional and other staff of the Institute, the Centre for Special Care, the Family Centre, the Service Providers, the Trainees, the Directors, the Hosts, the Head of Measures for the Protection of Rights and the Welfare of the Child and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85086	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85087	I support lifelong learning, but I am not sure that this is the best possible form and so far employees in the social care system are very necessary to improve and these trainings are carried out by the Croatian Association of Social Workers and the Chamber and the study of social work and you as the Ministry, different associations, as well as social care institutions. These trainings can be good, bad, can be improved, however, I am afraid that with this one approach we show a strong mistrust to those who actually know the most in the social care system and have so far been upgraded into the system itself in order to contribute to the professional improvement of those who work in it. I don't know if this body is necessary, we're holding that it isn't, and here, first of all, we're not going to be leading our own flat-rate assessment, we're asking for a strong statement of dissatisfaction expressed by the very ones you want to professionally perfect through this Academy, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85088	91st Amendment Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85089	The amendment is not accepted. At the end of the bill, the Academy is established as a public institution that has the property of a legal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85090	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85091	So we oppose the establishment of the Academy as a special legal person. In the previous amendment, you interpreted how the Academy would educate professionals. It seems to me that it'll be more to take care of party personnel. There is no reasonable reason for the establishment of a fully separate system for carrying out these activities that are placed in the jurisdiction of the Academy, outside the Croatian Institute for Social Care system, so that this institution could carry out the education of its employees. On the other hand, Croatia has organised social work education at two universities, and there are other universities that would be competent to implement different forms of lifelong learning for social workers, which would be a much more rational model than introducing a completely new state body for the needs of the education of employees, only for one segment of the public sector. We ask that since the founding of the Academy, you give up your vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85092	The 92th Amendment of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85093	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law establishes the Academy as a public institution which has the property of a legal person, therefore the internal structure of the Academy is governed by the statutes in accordance with the law governing the establishment and establishment of institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85094	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85095	Thank you, as with the previous amendment, we suggest that the academy is not founded as a special legal person, as a special institution, but that it may act as an internal body within the institution itself, therefore not as an independent special state body, so we believe that the issue of the internal structure of the academy should not be solved by a statue, but in that case it could be resolved by a rule. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85096	93th Amendment of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85097	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law establishes the Academy as a public institution which has the property of a legal person governed by the Administrative Council. The selection and appointment of members of the Board of Directors and the demarcation and authorisation of the Governing Council shall be determined by the statute of the Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85098	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85099	Thank you. So, we oppose the establishment of the academy as an independent institution, we propose the eventual establishment of the academy as a founding unit within the institution itself, and therefore we think that the formation of a special board of directors, a new institution, is completely unnecessary, but once you've decided on such a path and such a model, then all you're saying now is that you're going to solve the statutes by law itself. Therefore, the resolution of these issues to sublegal acts is constitutionally unacceptable and speaks in favour of the fact that, either at the very beginning of the legislator's intensities, the legislators were not clear, so you do not even know what you are going to do with this academy, or you already have clear ideas that are contrary to the public interest. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85100	94th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85101	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law establishes the Academy as a public institution which has the property of a legal person governed by the Administrative Council. The selection and appointment of members of the Board of Directors and the demarcation and authorisation of the Governing Council shall be determined by the statute of the Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85102	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85103	Thank you. The questions you have raised are not appropriate for the resolution of internal acts and the statutes of the Academy, so I ask that this amendment be voted on. I repeat, we oppose the establishment of the academy as a special institution, its activities can automatically take over the institution through some of its internal organisational units. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85104	95th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85105	The amendment is not accepted. Obligators to comply with the obligations of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest are governed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85106	A review of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85107	Thank you. As with the social care office itself, as with family centres, we also point out here that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is this new law, the earlier law was passed before we are now in the process of forming some new state bodies, therefore unfortunately, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests does not provide for those state functions that did not exist when this law was passed. In order not to put the commission in a position to interpret certain provisions purely for the sake of precision, legal certainty and clarity, we ask for very simple interventions in this law to be explicitly stated that the new public duties that are yet to be established by this law are covered by the obligations set out in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And I really don't understand why the Proposer is resisting such a proposal so strongly. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85108	We now have 3 amendments to the completely identical content of SDP's Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives Renate Sablar Dračevac, these are amendments 96, 97 and 98.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85109	The amendments are not accepted. The service provider who is prohibited will delete from the register legal and natural persons carrying out the social care activities referred to in Article 166 of the final draft law. The registry will be made publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85110	Here you go, SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85111	I think it may be easier to go this way that we have proposed in the amendments, which is that on the website of the competent ministry, a list is actually published or if you want to register, but a very clear list of accommodation providers that are prohibited from working. In view of this truly widespread practice of continuing the work of accommodation providers and after a solution to ban work, what is really important to our users through all possible mechanisms that are available to us in the fastest possible way to provide insight into those accommodation units or those potential service providers that do not have the right to provide services because they have already wronged the law. I'm afraid these roads that you said we'd be on here, there, we'd be obliged to publish a register that would be a road where we'd actually satisfy the legal form to publish it, and the users wouldn't actually know where to look, it'd have to be somewhere visible. I think the ministry, the ministry, is the most visible place for a summary of this kind of vital information. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85112	From representatives of Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85113	Thank you very much. What you said sounds similar, but it's not nearly the same. So there will be a register of those who are allowed to work on what we propose means adding an item to publish a list of those providers who are not allowed to work on the website of the competent ministry. So you're going to delete them, you're going to publish the register, they're gone, but what we're proposing is a slightly higher amount of transparency in which you swear so much, which you're so prominently pointing out along with your coalition partners, and that's kind of like a black list of taxpayers. So what prevents you from making a black list of those who are not allowed to work, not only because your colleague Glasovac said that they know how to do it sometimes and continue to do it, but also to help users so that they don't have to wander around the pages, but simply make a blacklist and put it very transparently, very clearly on the website? I don't see anything controversial about it, but here you have refused to vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85114	She is a representative of Renata Sablar Dračevac. She's not here. The 99th Amendment of Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85115	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85116	It's becoming an integral part. The 100th Amendment of Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85117	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85118	101st Amendment of Mr. Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85119	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85120	And the 102nd amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85121	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85122	It becomes an integral part of the law. We've exhausted the amendments with that. On behalf of the SDP Club, we have proposed the following conclusion "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to amend the rules on the monthly amount of compensation for the threatened buyer of energy products within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law, the manner of participation in the settlement of the costs of the users' energy charges and the handling of the relevant social care centres of the NN No. 140/15 in such a way as to determine the compensation for the threatened buyer up to a maximum of 300 kuna per month and to do the same in the adoption of the new regulation referred to in Article 1(1). In accordance with Article 43, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 327th century 1. The law.’ and second, ‘The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be bound to bring into force the rules laid down in Article within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. 43.st.1. the law, which will finally clearly define energy poverty, extend the criteria for obtaining the status of a threatened buyer by introducing that right both for gas and for heat energy to beneficiaries of the right to compensation for the threatened energy purchaser with users of guaranteed minimum fees and users of personal disability, including users of compensation for assistance and care and all persons living at particular risk of energy poverty." I ask the representative to be made aware of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85123	The conclusion is not accepted. The government has already accessed the analysis and check the state of play on the basis of which it will access amendments to the regulations regarding persons who have the status of a threatened energy buyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85124	A review of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85125	Thank you very much. This is offensive and humiliating for millions and 600 thousand Croatian citizens living in poverty or at risk of poverty. Four months you've been analyzing and now you're saying you're refusing to conclude because you need even more time to analyze. So these analyses of you lead to paralysis, the paralysis of those who in Croatia are 15% unable to pay for electricity, 7% also according to the European Commission report which cannot warm up their home. This electricity voucher fee hasn't changed since 2015, so for the first time and the visionary introduction, I'd say that energy-hazarded citizens are relieved of the cost of housing that you btw by the way for those other overhead costs also mutilated through this law and you took it from 50% to 30%... Now you do not want to accept the conclusion that within 30 days you increase the amount of vouchers for energy-hazarded customers to 300 kuna, to extend the diapazone that they are not only related to electricity but also to gas and to extend the base from the existing user circle which is only users of minimum benefits and personal disability benefits and to the category of users of the care and assistance fees in the house and to those really energy-hazarded citizens, you will not. I'm sorry, and I hope that HS will agree to do this tomorrow's vote. We don't have time anymore, we have agents to wait for, but people who bite winter don't. In September, the European Commission gave the Member States a recommendation that they should act to prevent an inflationary attack on poor citizens, you did nothing. Sit down, analyze and observe. That's enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85623	Following is a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 219. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc's representatives, Domagoj Hajduković and Furio Radin, the SDP MPs' club, the Social Democrats' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Maria Pleikosa. 1st, 2nd and 3rd Amendments were submitted by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the Green-left Block Representatives' Club and MPs Domagoj Hajduković and Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85624	The amendments are not accepted. Art. 9 is not covered by the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, and by decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 29 January 2020. The request of 1/5 MPs in HS for an assessment of compliance with the Constitution has been rejected. 9th point 3rd, Art. 1st century 3rd and Article 3rd of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1st century 2. The Household Act, or no proposals for the initiation of procedures for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution, have been adopted. Points 9 and 3 of Article 3 11th century 3. Household laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85625	A review of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85626	Thank you very much. Well, ma'am. The secretary of state, you've done us a great job, and that's our parameters, so grab the... But what you did not say, although this article does not cover amendments to the law under the HS Rules of Procedure, we can intervene in it if there is a need. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a need here because the apparent discrimination of Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens who want to give their children a home, is to be foster parents, who may be the same sex, who are life partners. Why is it that if we have the Life Partnership Act, if everyone is equal by constitution, we cannot install it into the Household Law? So we're indirectly speaking to these people, don't adopt them, and our homes are full of carefree children. The more people come to adopt, the more they want a baby born white, and this is a population that wants to foster both brothers and sisters and Roma children and older children, etc. Thus, there is discrimination here, discrimination against a large part of the population, but ultimately discrimination and children who will not get home, who will have to stay in the institution, who will be burdened at the end by the system and who will not be given optimal, optimal growth. Therefore, we hold that intervention in the law is more than justifiable in this regard and that is why we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85627	Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85628	Thank you. ... All that colleague Hajdukovic said I'll make it up to you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we've established and we know, it's an absolutely familiar fact how many kids are waiting for foster care. We also know how badly that information indicates that we don't have enough foster parents. There is absolutely no single reason why some ideological plantations that have no foundation in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, nor in any elemental honesty, are more important to us than the welfare of children. I would like to remind you that in today's speech, the president of the assembly spoke about this, today in a speech to mark Holocaust's victims' day that such situations begin with hate, hate speech, and end with unimaginable evil. The hate speech also allows for this kind of discrimination. I believe that such a provision and not accepting such an amendment is precisely a submission to those groups of citizens who are used by hate speech and exclude one community that has all the same rights as all the other citizens of the Republic and therefore I think that the Constitutional Court will react to these things anyway. Thank you. We're staying at the voting requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85629	Representatives Domagoj Hajduković and Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85630	So I'm gonna do it again, and I'm gonna get what my colleague Ursha Raukar Gamulin said. The Holocaust didn't just happen to the Jews, it happened to homosexuals, and it's quite possible that on this day we're discussing these attempts to intervene in the law in order to really enable all of our citizens to be equal, but this government has repeatedly shown that there are more equal and more equal. We have laws that we don't implement, which we don't respect, we have a constitutional court ruling that we also don't respect and we don't build on changes to the law. Well, gentlemen and ladies of the government, that's really enough. You can't have double standards, you can't please one, you can't ignore the other. It is simply not according to the standards of the 21st century, it is not by the EU's mind, it is not by the Council of Europe's mind which Croatia is more than a proud member. So perhaps Prime Minister Plenkovic would explain to his colleagues in Brussels why a part of the Croatian population is systematically ignored, and that is why my colleague Furio Radin and my little one decided to give this amendment and we will ask for a statement about it in order to allow all our citizens equal rights, but also to allow children a warm home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85631	Amendment No. 4. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85632	The amendment is not accepted. Measures to protect the rights and welfare of the child are measures in accordance with the law governing family legal relations. Also due to the uneven behaviour of the social care centre and to the initiative of individual professionals in foster care teams, a redefined obstacle to the duration of measures to protect the rights and welfare of the child has been redefined. It is important to stress that the foster home centre conducts an evaluation of the person or family during the procedure for the adoption of a permit permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85633	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85634	Thank you. We remain in the fact that an article as well as in the current current Household Act is required that a measure for the protection of the rights and well-being of the child of the obstacle to the exercise or the provision of foster care is actually imposed, since it is not an advisory work, it is not professional support and assistance, it is a measure that has been given to such persons and it is questionable whether they are capable and similar at all for foster care and care to children in the household if they have been given a measure in view of their own children. So we think it's an absolute obstacle and we need to return the obstacle as absolute in the Household Act and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85635	Amendment No. 5. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85636	The amendment is not accepted. In order to ensure a more uniform and efficient management of the social care centre, as well as better protection of the rights of users, the relevant article should be further elaborated on the supply of evidence for certain obstacles to the conduct of foster care and compliance with the law governing criminal offences. In addition, due to the uneven behaviour of the social care centre and the initiative of individual professionals in foster care teams, a redefined obstacle has been made to the duration of measures to protect the rights and welfare of the child, which is in line with rehabilitation in relation to the prescribed offences as obstacles, and it is important to stress that the foster centre during the implementation of the process for the adoption of the authorisation for fostering the assessment of the person or family.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85637	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85638	We disagree, of course, with that argument and ask for a vote on the amendment. It is totally unacceptable to propose an article. 5 It allows the foster parent to be someone who has been given a measure to protect the rights and welfare of the child. It's unacceptable. We witness daily the repetition of the same misdeeds and therefore come to social tragedies of incredible proportions, and mainly because we will see, this Law, however, I believe, in general. It is also interesting for every conviction that we allow a child molester by law, not to go any further, to be a foster parent, and that seems desirable to us, and not to the same sex communities. Well done, good job. It's a shame. It's a shame. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85639	Amendment No. 6 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85640	The amendment is not accepted. That proposal would produce an unequal treatment in relation to the accommodation of children in foster parents who carry out standard foster care. In addition, we note that the provision in question was prescribed by the Household Act in the same way as in substance and that the application of it does not indicate the need for a different definition of the Final Proposal of the Law. Furthermore, children and underage persons with a 4th degree disability weight are prescribed to be damaged functional skills according to the rules on skills and training methodologies are placed with foster parents who carry out specialised foster care for children. The possibility of accommodation of more children than the prescribed number is already prescribed Art. 2. 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85641	A review, SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85642	Thank you. In fact, we allow changes to allow accommodation in one foster family together regardless of the number or additional of more than three children, if they are brothers and sisters, with the prior consent of the foster center. Of course, it is important to monitor and analyse the situation both in view of the needs of children and given the resources of a particular social care centre, and we believe that it should be possible individually and if such needs occur, that they are foreseen in the law. We also feel that it is necessary to better analyse the situation of foster care, that exceptional new measures should be taken that would actually contribute to increasing the interest in foster care. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85643	Next is the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85644	The amendment is not accepted. That proposal would produce an unequal treatment in relation to the accommodation of children in foster parents who carry out standard foster care. In addition, we note that the provision in question was prescribed by the Household Act in the same way as in substance and that the application of it does not indicate the need for a different definition of the Final Proposal of the Law. Furthermore, children and underage persons with a 4th degree disability weight, impairment of functional skills according to the rules on skills and methods of art, are placed with foster parents who carry out specialised foster care for children and are subject to an exception regarding the number of users in the case of brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85645	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85646	I, I did not understand you, but if I understood correctly, that it was already prescribed that brothers and sisters could stay together with the foster home, I support, however, I also believe that it is necessary to stress that in this article of the Law. Because people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, they're not even numbers, they're not closets, we don't put them on shelves, but they're people who, in such difficult circumstances of life, need their own in at least a few articles of the law, if you're saying it's meant somewhere. They should be allowed to stay together as family first and I'm staying with the entire amendment, and I didn't understand this first, so you're speaking to me too democratically. Thank you. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85647	That's what we've completed with the amendment statement. We have a club, the SDP Club proposal on the following conclusion: It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the HS amendments and additions to the Household Act within 30 days in accordance with the Decision and Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Ui-144/2019 and the second since 29 January 2020 in a way that ensures equal participation in all aspects of social life, including access to public foster care, to the same sex communities of family life to formal and informal life partners. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85648	The conclusion is accepted. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has not ordered amendments to the Household Act but has established that the competent authorities are obliged to interpret and apply the provisions of the Household Act in such a way as to enable all persons under equal conditions to participate in the public service of foster care, regardless of whether a potential fosterer lives in a life or informal life partnership. In accordance with the decision and resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the current practices of the social care centre on the requirements for the provision of foster care, life partners have the opportunity to deal with foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85649	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u85650	We ask you to propose within 30 days to amend and supplement this law which you will comply with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitutional Court ruling adopted on 29 January 2020. in this way, by changing the law, you must allow equal participation in all aspects of social life, including access to foster care, and that is, among other things, the Constitutional Court. And you lie when you say the Constitutional Court didn't ask you to amend the law into an article. 9, 11 and 13, he only said that at that time suspending these three articles would lead to a legal gap that would negatively affect users. But now that you're going into the new law, it's perfectly clear what you have to respect. You must respect the European Convention on Human Rights and the three laws that defend discrimination, all without it you yourselves are passing laws that you are breaking and some other laws. Besides, you're violating human rights in the Republic of Croatia. Users of carefree children, adults who need a foster care service are important to them to pass all professional evaluations to be good foster parents, not gender, race, nationality or who they share a house or bed with, and that is perfectly clear, and you are discriminating on this very basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86112	Following is a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 220. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Katarina Peović, representative Andreja Maric, SDP representative club and representative Ivan Celic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Maria Pleikosa. The 1st and 2nd amendments are identical content, submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and representative Katarina Peović, please showcase.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86113	The amendments are not accepted. Art. 6th century. 1st century. The final draft law provides for the conditions of previous university education to carry out psychotherapy for psychotherapy in such a way that an authorised psychotherapist can be a person with previous education in the field of medicine, psychology, pedagogy, social activities and logody. It has been amended to ensure the quality level of service of this profession since previous education in those areas has been estimated to contain sufficient knowledge for the upgrade of knowledge and skills in the field of psychotherapy, which is not the case in the field of technical or natural sciences.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86114	A review of SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86115	Thank you very much. I am not satisfied with your clarification or explanation and I demand that the amendment be voted upon. In fact, you have now quite reduced who has the right to carry out psychotherapy activities, and in fact you do not care at all about all those experts in that area who have acquired a number of years of further education in the field of psychotherapy plus years of experience in the field that have a European certificate in psychotherapy and in the extreme line you have a declaration of psychotherapy from Strasbourg that is generally accepted by the EU and by the EU body where psychotherapy is clearly defined as an independent scientific discipline whose practice represents an independent and free profession. So, you didn't predict any retrograde recognitions of previous educations, you didn't predict any transitional period where all these people who had acquired all those years of adequate education and invested their time and money that they were doing and what now with these people? So that's why we're asking for that amendment to be voted because if it stays this way, you're going to banish all these highly educated experts from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86116	Representative Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86117	In addition to that, I can only add that the draft Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy of 17 December last year, which went to the right reading, was the result of the work of the Labour Ministry working group, pension system, family and social policy, as well as representatives of the profession of the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapy and the Association of Psychotherapy associations of Croatia, the largest professional association of psychotherapists covering all psychotherapy practices actively organised in the Republic of Croatia. So in the final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, there are unjustified restrictions which did not exist in the first version and when making this final proposal of the law, then neglected proposals of professions whose representatives are, of course, best familiar with what they are, which are professional forms of education that allow this to be included in this law so that I would listen to the profession so that I will insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86118	Amendment number 3 of Representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86119	The amendment is not accepted. Article 6(1) of the final draft law lays down the conditions of previous university education to carry out psychotherapy for psychotherapists in such a way that an authorised psychotherapist can be a person with previous education in the field of medicine, psychology, pedagogy, social activities and logody. It has been amended to ensure the quality level of service of this profession since previous education in those areas has been estimated to contain sufficient knowledge for the upgrade of knowledge and skills in the field of psychotherapy, which is not the case in the field of natural sciences.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86120	The review, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86121	Thank you very much. I will also request a vote on this amendment. Similar explanations as before went to a reduction in the right to recognise the status of psychotherapist, and you did not take care to be a little wider diapazon of the university or science that ends plus all those educations in the field of psychotherapy without any retrograde recognition, without transitional provisions, without listening to the profession said by my colleague Peović and I, without respecting the European directives we are happy to call upon, and then when we have a declaration that I have already mentioned from Strasbourg, it is not respected. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86122	Amendment number 4. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86123	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions financially binding on members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs of professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will give, within an appropriate period, in accordance with the complexity of each individual general act and without delay, and the pre-exclusive period is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86124	A review, SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86125	Thank you very much. I don't agree with your argument, I demand that the amendment be voted upon. I don't quite understand what complexity you're talking about. I know that all of you in the ministries have a lot of work to do, but you must know that since practically these new laws that you propose happen to hyper-regulatory the ministry of chambers, you must know that if you do not adopt the opinion or consent of the ministry on these acts that have been mentioned, which is membership, work plan, annual work plan, financial report, etc., if it is not adopted within at least 30 days then the chambers will not be able to act. So, are you aware that this is how you will slow down and block the work of the chambers? How will the chamber work if there is no decision on the height of the membership fee? How's it going to work? And what is the appropriate time limit for you, so we wait as representatives to answer questions not within a prescribed 30-day period that stands clearly, we wait a few months. How long are they gonna wait from the ministry now? We'll have more of these amendments, and then hopefully you'll be able to state what is the appropriate deadline for you from the ministry if it's not up to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86126	Amendment number 5. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86127	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions which, which are financially bound by the members, the annual work programme, the financial report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the compensation for the implementation of the professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out, will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the pre-scheduling of the pre-determined period is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86128	A review on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86129	Thank you. As for the previous amendment, we are not satisfied with your explanation. We're asking for an amendment to the vote. Here, you're not my number two chance, and they're going to be listed as an appropriate time limit for you. The appropriate time limit according to what we have seen so far is in practice according to what the chamber has told us even up to 18 months. So it's really not a proper time limit, and by 30 days, you could really give an opinion or consent to all these important acts that you now prescribe that the chamber is required to ask the ministry. Well, please, and in the next exhibits, which is, which you as the Ministry will promise is an appropriate deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86130	6th Amendment of the Club, Agent Ivan Celić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86131	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86132	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 7. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86133	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions making financial commitments to members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the fees for the implementation of the professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate timeframe in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the pre-scheduling is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86134	A review, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86135	As in previous reasons, I'm not satisfied, of course, with what you've stated. Again, you have not said what is the appropriate time limit, which, according to you, is the complexity of all these acts. So up to 30 days should give an opinion, or consent, you're here, you're holding on to it, you're rejecting it. We will ask for a vote on this amendment and please, in the next clarification, tell us here to all of you what is the appropriate deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86136	Amendment No. 8 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86137	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the Ministry is obliged to grant consent to the General acts of the Chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, if the consent is not delivered within the prescribed time limit, the consent to the General Act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional completion, to the decision on the level of membership, to the general acts and decisions bound by the members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual report on work, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the compensation for the implementation of the expert supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and that the prescribing of the pre-inclusive period is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86138	A review, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86139	Also, the same explanation. Again, we haven't heard what the appropriate deadline is, you could at least accept it in some modified form, so you put some number of days you think at the Ministry to be an appropriate deadline so that then even in chambers can be guided by that, by you, by an appropriate deadline, however, you left it hanging in the air, so there, obviously your message from the Ministry of Chambers, and wait, maybe it will be in a year, so we're asking to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86140	Amendment No. 9 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86141	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the Ministry is obliged to grant consent to the General acts of the Chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, if the consent is not delivered within the prescribed time limit, consent to the general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional completion, to the decision on the level of membership, to the general acts and decisions financially binding by the members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual report on work, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the compensation for the implementation of the professional supervision and the manner of the exercise of the professional supervision will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the provision of a pre-exclusive period is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86142	Following Statements And I'm sorry, it is. [[I can do mine?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86143	Thank you very much. Here you are not giving up your text, nor am I giving up on mine, so I ask that votes on this amendment be voted on and I ask for understanding and colleagues, here, a colleague here will pass it on to colleagues from HDZ and others from the ruling option to accept tomorrow at the vote on this amendment that there should still be some responsibility of the Ministry, if they are asking for something from the chambers, which we see by these laws that you propose, then it would be fine for the Ministry to make its contribution to the fact that then the system can function in a quality way. And in that very sense, this deadline of up to 30 days, which for many things and exists as such, so we didn't invent it, we think that this deadline would be appropriate and that in some way this would, however, make it possible for the chambers to function with everything the Ministry has imposed on them, unfortunately, and that you did not listen to the debate, or amendments. I ask to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86601	Following is a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z. No. 221. The proposer is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted by the Green-left bloc's MPs' Club, the SDP's Club of Representatives and MP Ivan Celic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa. Amendment No. 1. ... for a green-left block rep club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86602	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to change the definition of educational qualification which is one of the conditions for carrying out activities. The level of education as a condition for the performance of activities has been developed and aligned with representatives of the academic community and the conditions of university institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86603	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86604	Thank you. I do not accept your argument because the legislator's intrinsicity as a qualification is an alternative to requiring either pre-graduate, or a degree level of study and this study of rehabilitation, so there is no need for a graduate level to bind and pre-graduate because it itself is a condition of that degree. You can't get to graduation if you haven't finished pre-graduate. It's not scheduled to skip yet. But we've got a little more time, so I'm gonna give myself another comment. Now it's much clearer to me by looking at you and listening to, respected secretary of state, why there was no compliance with the profession, and thank you for looking at me, with the profession, with the academic community and with the users. All the time defending these amendments and our debates, you're not listening, you're deluded into your papers, you're doing your duty, you know that you're right and that everything we're saying is out of the question. You see, your colleague Bilaver, yesterday, is the same secretary of state, and there was a debate that showed that the Ministry at the head of that department, the sector, Mr. Bilaver, was really listening. Not only the opposition, but the opposition as representatives of the citizens, listen to the citizens, listen to the remarks. Do you know how this law will go? With the great, great support of this House. And you're going... there's no communication for you and there's no compromise, here. If you can work on having one reform next time that everyone will accept the triggers so they can carry it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86605	Following the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86606	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions making financial commitments to members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the fees for the implementation of the professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the pre-exclusive period shall not be appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86607	SDP review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86608	Thank you. As I said in previous maritime law regarding the psychotherapy activity, so here I am now going to say about all other activities. First, your legal proposals are bad. You don't listen to the waist. In fact, it is affecting the autonomy of these professional organisations, and it is precisely because you do not accept that at least within this reasonable 30-day period, you bring in the necessary consent that you have imposed on all these chambers, however, you are leaving the possibility of making it impossible for the normal, flowing operation of chambers to be disabled in any way by their ability to function regularly, especially when it comes to membership fees or financial reports, etc. So here I am still calling for no one from the HDZ here, but I ask that you at least support tomorrow, these amendments, and that some kind of legal deadline be defined, and that within 30 days then the Ministry be declared in respect of these consents or opinions. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86609	Amendment number two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86610	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86611	SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86612	Here you have stopped reading all this text you have, so here I will repeat as I have said before we ask you to accept this reasonable period for at least 30 days and that within that time the ministry is being manifested, and I say you could at least accept it in a changed form and put some number on it, not leave it like this. A reasonable deadline for you can be several months, and that's unacceptable. I therefore call on my HDZ colleagues to support it tomorrow or tomorrow from the ruling majority. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86613	Okay. Amendment number three of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86614	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Other, other arguments as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86615	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86616	As before, I ask that this amendment be supported tomorrow and that the deadline be defined. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86617	Amendment number four of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86618	The amendment is not accepted. Same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86619	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86620	Also, we ask that you vote on this amendment and accept this 30-day deadline, which is really reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86621	Okay. Amendment number five of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86622	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86623	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86624	I'm going to be very physically active today with this standing and descending, but I don't think we're going to give in, so I'm asking you to vote on this amendment and that you, too, rule that out. It's a reasonable period of up to 30 days, not a few months, which is a practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86625	Okay. Amendments to Agent Ivan Celic follow. One amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86626	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u86627	It's becoming an integral part. A statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychological Activity, Second Reading, P.Z.E. number 222. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc representative club, SDP representative club and representative Ivan Celic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Maria Pleikosa. The first is the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87086	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87087	Accepts, becomes an integral part. Amendments to the SDP Representatives Club follow. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87088	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions making financial commitments to members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the fees for the implementation of the professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the pre-exclusive period shall not be appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87089	A review on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87090	As in the current clarifications, we are also asking to vote on this amendment and we are calling on the ruling to support it. There should be some kind of prescribed deadline, and this is reasonable for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87091	Amendment No. Two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87092	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87093	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87094	Also, we're asking to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87095	Amendment 3 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87096	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87097	We're looking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87098	Followed by the amendment of Ivan Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87099	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87100	First, and second?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87101	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87102	All right, these two amendments are accepted. Following is a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Activity of Social Labour, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 223. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc representative club, SDP representative club and representative Ivan Celic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa. 1st Amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87561	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to change the definition of educational qualification which is one of the conditions for carrying out activities. The level of education as a condition for the performance of activities has been developed and aligned with representatives of the academic community and the conditions of university institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87562	A review, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club. Do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87563	Thank you. We do not accept your argument because, as I have already said in the previous amendment, the legislator's intensity is that as a qualification, it alternatively requires either pre-graduate, or a graduate level of social work studies, so the degree level does not need to be specifically tied to a certain pre-graduate level because it itself is a condition for the degree level. I guess that's clear. So in practice a person can also complete a graduate study of social work with previously completed another undergraduate study, not necessarily a postgraduate study of social work, and on the other hand, if a person has completed pre-graduate social work, then, as I would say, it is qualified already by that first alternative and does not need it, in fact relevant which graduate study afterwards. So all of this together doesn't have to be done in short, to simplify, there's no need to stress specifically the graduate study of social policy. Nothing. There. We remain at the voting request because we believe that these provisions unnecessarily further complicate this law which is not good anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87564	Amendment No. Two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87565	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87566	It's becoming an integral part. SDP Representatives' Club, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87567	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that the deadline within which the Ministry is obliged to grant consent to the general acts of the chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, should the agreement not be delivered within the prescribed time limit. Consent to a general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional training, to a decision on the level of membership, to general acts and decisions financially binding on members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the fees for the implementation of the professional supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the pre-exclusive period shall not be appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87568	A review on behalf of the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87569	Thank you. Of course, I'm not as happy with the explanation as I was before. We're asking to vote on the amendment. The Ministry is asking the Chamber to send reports to the Ministry within some kind of deadlines, so they're being imposed on, you're saying that you want to be partners with the chambers, and obviously you're not partners because the chambers have to do something, and you're giving yourself a deadline, you say appropriate, and you don't really define it at all. I think it's reasonable until 30 days and yet again, I call upon my fellow ruling majority to support it tomorrow, so here I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87570	Amendment No. Two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87571	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87572	A review, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87573	The same reasoning on our part, we ask that the amendment be voted upon and that you accept this reasonable 30-day period, and if the ministry is not shown, that consent is deemed to be given. We've put that on all the amendments, and we think it would still be some sort of order in communication at the chamber-ministry level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87574	Amendment No. Three of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87575	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87576	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87577	We are also asking for a vote on the amendment and for everyone to support that opinions are given up to 30 days in order to actually enable the normal functioning of all these chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87578	Amendment No. Four of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87579	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87580	We're also asking for a vote and we're asking you all to support what we've been looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87581	The amendment of Agent Ivan Celic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87582	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u87583	It becomes an integral part of the law. And we have a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Socio-Pedagogical Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 224. The proposer is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted by the Green-left bloc's MPs' Club, the SDP's Club of Representatives and MP Ivan Celic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa. The 1st amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88042	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to change the definition of educational qualification which is one of the conditions for carrying out activities. The level of education as a condition for the performance of activities has been developed and aligned with representatives of the academic community and the conditions of university institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88043	A review, Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88044	Since I have twice, I feel quite clearly, explained this thinking, rather rigidly and completely detached from reality. I'll cut it short, here, now we'll have free speeches, so I don't agree with your explanation and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88045	Amendment No. Two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88046	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88047	It's getting...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88048	Let me get this straight. It's just the ministry's mistakes that misspelled the numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88049	It's becoming an integral part. Following amendments to the SDP Representatives Club, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88050	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is proposed to prescribe a time limit within which the Ministry is obliged to give its consent to the General acts of the Chamber, as well as the presumption of consent, unless consent is delivered within the prescribed time limit, consent to the general act governing the way of implementation, content, deadlines and procedure of professional completion, to the decision on the level of membership, to the general acts and decisions bound by the members, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the annual work report, the financial report and the general act governing the procedure, the costs, the compensation for the implementation of the expert supervision and the way in which the professional supervision is carried out will be given within the appropriate time limit in accordance with the complexity of each single general act and without delay, and the provision of a pre-exclusive period is not appropriate to the complexity of these general acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88051	A review, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88052	We ask for a vote on the amendment, here, I've already said a lot, please, colleagues tomorrow all and ruling to support this amendment because the reasonable deadline is really 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88053	Amendment No. Two of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88054	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88055	A review, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88056	We're also asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88057	Amendment No. Three of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88058	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88059	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88060	Also, I'm asking for a vote, I'm really hot right now, you could have accepted the amendments and you wouldn't have to discuss it so much, and the legal deadline is really 30 days reasonable, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88061	Okay. Amendment No. Four of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88062	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88063	We're also asking for a vote and we're asking that this be accepted. Here, tell your people at your clubs, it's really a reasonable 30-day deadline for the Ministry to do what it actually requires from the chamber of deadlines, and it just doesn't stick to any deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88064	Okay. The amendment of Agent Ivan Celic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88065	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88066	Thank you. That's what we're... Thank you to the secretary of state. We've exhausted the debate on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88237	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now begin our work as announced. Today we will discuss and declare the amendments, so first we will go to the amendments concerning the final proposal for a consumer protection law. It's a second reading, P.Z.E. 175. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for the Legislatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representative Barbara Antolic Vupra, Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment committees, and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. And amendments to the Government submitted before the start of the debate pursuant to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure have become an integral part of the final draft law. And now I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the remaining amendments submitted. This is where Natasa Mikush-Zigman is respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Let's take it in a row. The first amendment by representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88238	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment is not accepted. In particular, the level of the prohibited criminal penalty cannot be determined in view of the amount of income incurred by the legal person or the level of salary of the responsible person and the prevented penalties in such a way as not to ensure a deterrent effect for potential perpetrators. However, it is important to recall that this final proposal for a law in Article 148 regulates cases where the competent inspector does not submit an indictment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88239	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88240	I think the amendment should go to the vote, that's what I'm going to ask. And given that, often in small companies, owners and directors are one and the same person, I think that the pressing on that person is actually disproportionately larger than it is in larger companies, so the proportions of penalties are different. And since the intensity of the law itself was to strengthen cooperation, there is therefore the possibility of an inspector calling for Article 148. However, the fact is that the pression of fines on small craftsmen, the owner and director of the same company, is too large.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88241	I assume you're looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88242	That's what I said at the beginning, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88243	Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. I didn't catch it. He can do fine. We're going to the next amendment to Green-Left Block Representative's Club Amendment number one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88244	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 11 does not accept, on the grounds that Article 11 has already been prescribed by the consumer’s personal data ban by the trader to third parties without prior consumer authorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88245	Here's an obvious colleague of Ursha Raukar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88246	Thank you, Mr. President. Dearly we remain with the amendment, because we believe that it should nevertheless be stressed and stressed that such personal data can only be given to third parties with a clear consumer consent. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88247	Thank you, too. Second amendment, same club reps. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88248	Thank you. As regards the addition of the new Article 16a. We also do not accept this amendment. This is not about the area and the legal relationship relating to the protection of the economic interests of consumers in the purchase of goods and services but about the legal position of debtors when the believer transfers the demand to another believer. In the third quarter of this year, the Government is preparing a proposal for a law on entities dealing with the activities of the purchase and collection of claims which will transfer legal property to national legislation relating to these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88249	We're going now, and I'm sorry. Obviously, here you go again, colleague Ursha Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88250	Thank you. So, not to take time and not to explain that I can't accept your explanation we're very pleased that we'll finally legally determine the work of the Agency for the Payment of Debts which I'm going to be very sharp almost with mob methods doing this, and they're not legally arranged in this country and they pose a great and threat and the inconvenience is a very small word for our citizens. But until that time, while such a law and the legislation that these unfortunate and terrible debt collection agencies will be regulated by that time, we think that in the Consumer Protection Act it is necessary to have such provisions in order to protect our citizens from threats, from daily harassment that is not appropriate to any civilised and democratic society. And that's why I'm staying with this amendment. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88251	We're moving on to the third amendment of the same club of MPs. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88252	Thank you very much. The amendment relating to the addition of a new Article 153a. is also not accepted. The proposed amendment would undermine the integrity of the system of free legal aid already governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance and introduce dualism in the exercise of the right to such assistance depending on whether or not the user is a consumer's legal assistance. Furthermore, all funds collected from fines are the revenues of the state budget from which all activities are financed, including for the area of consumer protection, and it is not possible to separate as proposed in the private fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88253	Here you go, colleagues, once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88254	Thank you. We don't accept the explanation. So the directive transposed into this EU law proposes that Member States should benefit from some of the funds for the collection of criminal penalties for public consumer protection objectives. I can only conclude that the system of free legal assistance in many areas is very limited in a situation where our citizens are increasingly poor and have fewer opportunities to pay legal protection and lawyers. I think it is exactly the opposite that needs to be done, and it is to expand the system of free legal assistance in order to truly ensure for the citizens their fundamental rights and thus prove and show that we are indeed on the path of true democracy and of one elemental civilization European level. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88255	You got it. We also have two conclusions that suggest the Green-left bloc's Green-Left Club and the Social Democrats' Club. So the first one is the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. The conclusion is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer, within 30 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, to the procedure of amending and supplementing the rules aimed at preventing concessions and/or claims arising from consumer contracts towards consumers to third parties without explicit and written consent from consumers. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88256	Thank you very much. The conclusion is not accepted. As I have previously stated, the credential demand for the debtor has already been properly governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations. He now prescribes the obligation of the creditors to inform the debtor of the denunciation of the demand, and, if so agreed, to seek his consent. I refer again to the preparation of the Law on Entities dealing with the activity of the ransom and the collection of claims in the third quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88257	Here's a statement from my colleague, Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88258	So, I was already talking in the previous amendment and the explanation about, uh, debt collection agencies. We believe that it is necessary to homogenise the different regulations in the area and both civil and commercial law in order to ensure that the prohibition of concessions or transfer of consumer contracts and claims to third parties without explicit written consent of consumers is consistently implemented throughout the legal system. I stress, for years we have allowed debt collection agencies to operate outside the legal framework, to allow our citizens to be harassed daily, we allow dozens of millions of them to leave outside Croatia that could remain in Croatia because most of these agencies are actually foreign agencies. So, multiple damage is done to both citizens and the state budget itself. We believe that this is an unsustainable and inadmissible situation and therefore we continue to insist on that conclusion and ask nicely for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88259	Now I will also read to you what the Social Democrats' Club suggests. The conclusion, therefore, firstly commits the Government of the Republic of Croatia to immediately develop an analysis of energy prices and basic life-savings resulting from inflation and the wave of purchases, leading to a impact on consumers in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take advantage of all the mechanisms available to stop the rise of energy prices and basic life supplies, thus preventing further collapse of the standard of living of citizens. And third, the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88260	Thank you very much. The relevant conclusion shall be accepted. In fact, the government continuously monitors price developments and measures have already been taken, such as freezing fuel prices, and in line with the announcements of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, further measures are being put in place to curb energy prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88261	Obviously, Comrade Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, that the government is monitoring price developments and doing nothing. The freezing of fuel prices was a temporary measure in the end not getting results. It is interesting that the price of energy in Croatia, in this case, is still high if we take into account the neighbourhood and consider the movement of oil on the world market. Unfortunately, the government is not doing enough to contain price hikes. The government does not do enough in agriculture, as it is clear that agricultural production will significantly collect what will collect food and for the reasons that we have stated in the conclusion we will seek a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88263	Thank you, too. So we came to an end with amendments to the first law. We now move to the third law declaring amendments to the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. With us, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy is respected Margareta Majeric. So you have one amendment to the SDP Representatives Club. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The government doesn't accept the amendment. So far, users of employment benefits retain the right acquired until the HZZ translates this right in accordance with the prescribed conditions and labour market law. The continuity of law is therefore not questioned, and the deadline of six months is the deadline for the translation of law. In this respect, it should be pointed out that even so far, users of employment benefits must be included in the record of unemployed persons of HZZ, including professional assistance and support from institutions with the aim of successful integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88966	My colleague Iljkić, here you are, Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u88967	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state. It's 2,000 users, which is the wave of a young person or children you've raised compensation for the miserable 25 kuna, and now they're still waiting for a alignment of up to six months, and all that time they won't have the right to this miserable 25 kuna increase until the solutions are settled or 2,000 solutions are issued. So that's where they'll cancel out and for that miserable increase these users. We believe that the Employment Service has the resources to make 2,000 solutions in six months, or as we propose in a month, I apologize, compared to almost 100,000 solutions that need to be brought to the welfare center or jobs that await them during the review. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89129	We are now going on a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Navigation and Ports and on the inside of the ports of internal waters, the second reading of P.Z.E. number 212. The promoter is the government, the debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Social Democrats' Club. During the debate, the government adopted amendments to the Committee on Law and to the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments made by the Social Democrats Club. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, respected Josip Bilaver. We're going in a row, so the first amendment is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89130	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted. The explanation is of, according to the provisions of this article, the rights of government officials on preferential transport are not regulated but by all Croatian citizens who have residence on the island or the Peljesac peninsula regardless of their material income, opportunity, income, place of work or function they conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89131	Here you go, colleagues of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89132	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you an additional clarification then, we'll definitely stay on this amendment and ask to vote on it, to explain to me if that's what you want to say, for example. Mr. Frka Petesic, who has a residence on the island, and his place of residence is where he does his duty and in his place of residence is used by an apartment paid by the state because he is dislocated from his place of residence, are you telling me that it is absolutely necessary that he and all of us, like him, who are in charge of a privileged ferry ticket, although for all the time we are doing our duty if our travel expenses are paid anyway? So the couple of times we go to the island for our own private reasons, it's really necessary to pay half the price of the ticket, that's what you're telling me?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89133	It's nothing. Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruder Glamuzina: Of course, of course I said.]] We're going to the second amendment of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89134	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted given that it relates to a substance for which it is a member. The 32nd century 7th century. The final proposal for a law prescribed to be governed by a sublegal act laying down rules and criteria for the use of preferential transport cards and laying down documentation on the basis of which the right to preferential and free transport is proved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89135	Here's another sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89136	Thank you. So the amendment was clear that colleagues all know very easily that when we talk about firefighters that their rights are limited to those firefighters who are operating in accordance with the way the Fire Department gives them away. So operating firefighters are the ones who put out the fires, participate in a variety of accidents, etc. in terms of prevention and that they are subject to this privilege because a member of the DVD can be absolutely anyone and theoretically when this is set up in this way the whole country can join the DVD and crash our Jadrolini. I mean, it's a very simple change we've just added the word "operational" to make it clear who it refers to and that now we don't get the whole island population involved in DVDs. I don't see that that's some kind of problem, but I'm still going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89137	Okay, you're free Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89169	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. If he wants to, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89170	I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to further consult on this bill that cannot at all be seen as an independent bill but is now entering a series of laws that we can characterise as a move by the ministry to independent education institutions. Namely, what is it? First, if we had any arrangements in this country, we wouldn't be discussing a roof institution that approves of funding projects in science before we have a new law that has been announced for years on science and higher education so we can see how this institution fits in there. And secondly, to explain exactly what kind of a silent march it is for the institutions. So we previously discussed a law relating to the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The centre, rights and role of founders were also transferred to the government's ministry and the assembly's powers were reduced. And now the Croatian Parliament is asked to give up its roles so far with regard to the Croatian Foundation for Science and to leave everything from the strategic plan to the supervision of the work of the foundation in the hands of the restoring ministry. The Croatian Foundation for Science is a highly important independent institution, which should be selected according to the principles of top values by the best scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia, rather than under a handful of policies. This is no longer an isolated case but a systematic policy, so we are going to stand up to these changes where everything comes under the ministry, and the key role of the assembly is being taken away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89171	Is there another request? There isn't. Then we will continue to work in accordance with Rule 293b. Would the applicant's representative like to give further reasons? Dear Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89172	Dear MPs and MPs, you have before you a proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. At a session held on 14 December 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, which established the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education, Technology Development, which later changed its name to the Croatian Foundation for Science. The Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development was amended in 2009, 2010, 2012, and amendments to the laws other than the name of the Foundation were changed to provisions relating to the purpose of the Foundation's trust and body, as well as to the users and property of the Foundation. The Croatian Foundation for Science was founded with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development of the Republic of Croatia with the ultimate goal of ensuring social and economic development and promoting employment. In order to achieve its fundamental purpose, the Foundation shall provide support for basic, applied and developmental scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The existing legislation is obsolete and does not regulate the system of funding science in a way that is consistent with all the requirements of the current Croatian and European Research Area, and does not comply with the provisions of the Foundations Act in its provisions, and in this respect it is necessary to comply with the legislation. In addition, according to a recent analysis by the World Bank for the Ministry of Science and Education as part of the project Review of public expenditure on science and technology and innovation, the Croatian Foundation for Science programme has been analysed in terms of functionality and efficiency and recommendations have been made on the design and implementation of the funding programme for scientific activities. The aim of this law is clearer, this analysis is on the Ministry's network pages and covers about 200 pages of tables and printed text, so anyone can look at it. The aim of this law is to define more clearly the legal status of the foundation and the way it works through increased quality, transparency, functional scientific projects and programmes and clearer division of the body's work. The starting point of these changes is the National Development Strategy, which defines the priorities of science and technology policies as part of the strategic objective 1 of the competitive and innovative economy. And these are among other reforms of the science system and the academic research sector in order to achieve world standards of excellence and the creation of innovation. Then, the development of research capacities with an emphasis on human potential in STEAM and ACT area. Furthermore, reform and financial, in financing innovation research through a new institutional framework and programmes for research, technological development and innovation, particularly in the field of information communication technologies, artificial intelligence and robotics, biotechnology and green technologies. Furthermore, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan approved by the European Commission supports the above-mentioned priorities through the proposed measures aimed at raising the research innovation potential under reform 3 to improve the efficiency of public investment in research, development and innovation. The implementation of the reform includes the adoption of a new Act on the Croatian Science Foundation, which will enable the implementation of tailored programmes in line with the revised framework of research, development and innovation financing. The new legal framework, which is planned to be adopted by the end of the third quarter of this year, will allow for the transformation and strengthening of the capacity of the foundation into a body that will allow for a simplified and systematic approach to project financing, research and innovation policy. The Foundation's restructuring process began with the draft Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, and it will include changes to the fundamental acts and the normative framework of the Foundation to introduce a new programme framework and framework for monitoring and strengthening the operational capacities of the Foundation. The Foundation will have a clearly defined mission of support for implementation, coordination, design, monitoring and evaluation of project financing and research and innovation policies. This will create a strong and independent system that will implement the selection, financing and monitoring of the impact of scientific research projects and create a competitive and harmonised framework of the Foundation for the financing of projects in basic, applied and development research. This bill stipulates that the foundation, that the foundation is established, the foundation is established with the purpose of developing and promoting science and technology in the Republic of Croatia. The Foundation is still a central organization for the financing of basic sciences in all scientific areas in the Republic of Croatia, but financial resources other than basic research are granted and applied... which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The Foundation promotes scientific excellence, competence in funding research, national or internationally recognised research topics, and national, national and international cooperation and networking, based on progress in creating new knowledge and knowledge-based society based on knowledge, research and innovation. In order to increase the efficiency and functionality of investments in scientific projects and to allow the implementation of programmes planned under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, it is proposed that the law does not prescribe the exact names of the programme in order to make it easier to adapt the funding, research and innovation frameworks. It is proposed that the types of programmes be established by the general acts of the Foundation. The new draft law makes it clear that the legal status of the foundation is defined and stipulates that the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Ministry of Science responsible for the exercise and supervision of the legality of work and the conduct of the foundation which has not been prescribed by the applicable law. The principles of the Foundation's work are also clearly prescribed, i.e. that the work of the Foundation is based on a competitive system of financing scientific research, and with the aim of promoting scientific excellence, international quality criteria in research, transparency and equality, preventing conflicts of interest, highest ethical standards and ensuring academic freedoms. As long as the applicable law stipulates that the support of the Foundation may be PhDs, post-doctoral scientists and scientific organisations in accordance with the regulations establishing scientific activity, the new law proposes that the beneficiaries of the Foundation's financial resources may be legal persons and in accordance with the regulations governing scientific activities because the financial resources are allocated to legal persons, not directly to doctors, post-doctors or scientists. It is further proposed that the trust with legal persons who are beneficiaries of financial resources and are responsible for its spending be concluded a contract in which, of course, it will be clearly defined who is the project manager. Furthermore, the name and tasks of the foundation body are in line with the Foundation Act and the Foundation Body constitute the Management Board of Foundations, Foundation Manager and Board of Appeals. The new law stipulates that members of trust authorities can be, cannot be members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and that they cannot continue to be employees of the Ministry of Science and the heads of higher schools, institutes and other scientific organisations. In addition, the members of the trust authorities are obliged to report any conflict of interest in relation to the projects participating in the tender procedure. It is proposed that the Management Board, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Science, adopt a strategic plan of the Foundation and a regulation on the internal work of the Foundation, the Statute and the Regulation on the terms and procedures of the allocation of funds for, by and the purpose of the Foundation and for the achievement of the purpose of the Foundation. With the aim of increasing the quality and transparency of funding for scientific projects and programmes, it is proposed to establish a new expert body of the Foundation, a committee of objections which decides on complaints on the allocation of financial resources and to define the possibility by means of a trust, and the law defines the possibility of an objection, which has not been prescribed so far. It is proposed that members of the Board of Appeal be appointed by the Management Board of Foundations on the basis of a public call for a period of 4 years. In addition to the body of the foundation, it is prescribed that the Management Board of the Foundation may establish a permanent or occasional, scientific or professional commission to carry out operations in the section of the Foundation. The new law proposes that the Foundation conducts business books and draws up financial reports according to the rules governing the management of accounts of budgetary users, which is in line with the provisions of the State budget for 2022. adopted by HS at its session on 8 March 2021. The fund was financed mostly, almost exclusively by the state budget, and in small part by the European Structural Fund and international co-operation. So it's 2020. The foundation generated a total of 161 million kunas of revenue, of which 158 million kuna was donated or allocated from the state budget. Total over the last 18 years. From 2002 to 2020 A billion and 93 million kunas of income have been made a foundation during that period, including a billion and 13 million kunas, direct revenue from the state budget. It's been over 20 years. The existence invested a total of billions of kunas to finance 1,260 scientific research projects and 930 young doctoral researchers. The total amount of funding for projects and PhDs has gradually increased from year to year to stable funding in the last 3 g. of almost 200 million kuna a year. In 2022, therefore in this year, the planned investment from the state budget in Croatia's Science Foundation amounted to 186.7 million kuna. In addition, investments in Croatia's Science Foundation totalling 621.3 million kuna in the period from 4th to 26th year were planned through programmes planned under the NPOO. Therefore, the Croatian Science Foundation will become a central strategic place and institutions to finance excellent competenceal science, both basic scientific research and applied to the development of the Croatian economy and society as a whole, through the basis of this proposed law, together with combined funding from the state budget and European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89173	Here we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The basic intensity of this law that we have in our first reading today is primarily improving the work of the foundation itself and improving the competent system of financing general science. When we observe the law a little bit, we will see that somehow the most attention in this legislative proposal has raised the question of legal personality and founding rights of the foundation itself, which according to this bill on behalf of the Republic of Croatia is achieved by the Ministry of Science, so that is Article. The 3rd law thus raised a strong doubt that this bill would violate the independence of the work of the foundation itself. I personally disagree with that suspicion, but I would ask you to state your opinion and comment on the article. 3. the law under which the founding rights are transferred to the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89175	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's obviously one of the main obstacles. I would like to stress that the Management Board of the Foundation continues to vote, as has been before. What I can also remind myself that, almost as far as I think from 2018, until a year ago the Board of Directors of the Foundation was in its own right, I will not say that it was illegal, but the law defined that the term of office of members of the Management Board was 4 years ago, and then at some point the Foundation had constitutionally changed and adopted the provision that the term of office of members of the Management Board would take place regardless of the law, so the statute was not in conformity with the law until the Council passed the new Administrative Council, which, if someone is in office then in office, could not extend the term of office. So no, I think the fear is unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89176	Time. We have a request for a break from Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, news has just been released that today in Zagreb is in 92. Life deceased member, co-worker of HAZU Dr. Nedjeljko Mihanovic, Croatian political and literary historian, also the president of this house. I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to join me in this moment of silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89178	I declare a minute of silence for. ... May eternal praise and glory be to him for all that he has done for Croatia. [[One minute of silence.]] We continue with the work, the next replica of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89179	So here's to this controversy that my colleague Bedekovic doesn't see, and it's more than obvious to me. So the same procedure was with the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. But I'm going to ask you very specifically here, do you expect HS to move itself as a key institution that should have decided on the strategic plan of the foundation and say that it no longer concerns him that you now have a major role in this with the board? If we just look at the article. 10.We will see incredible changes that now, with everything the Management Board is doing, the Ministry of Science and Education is doing, if we look at the article. 18. Let's see who's overseeing the foundation. We see again the Ministry of Science and Education. It is crucial for science to be independent of politics, and to manage a key institution that is funded by scientific projects if we cannot achieve this fundamental separation in the hands of the relevant ministry. How do you expect HS to confirm that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89180	I do not see any problem here in this case because it seems logical to me that in the case of the definition of strategic objectives within research and development, however, the Ministry of Science and Education has something to say in terms of and coherence of such research versus both NPOO and all other sources of EU funding. I stressed that the foundation will continue to finance both basic research and research related to graduates or PhDs, which will further strengthen that component aimed at developing the careers of young researchers. I'm not sure I should be completely out of any strategic thinking foundation because no one enters the definition of a particular research area that the foundation will finance. Time had expired, but I think we now had a very good example of how it could not be financed more serious research related to covid was not defined in this.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89181	The next replica is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89182	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Minister. The foundation that helps young scientists in their research is worth the admiration of these nearly billion kunas, which has been paid for 873 young scientists so far, certainly directed many of them to stay here in Croatia. As far as this jurisdiction is concerned, whether it's a parliament or a ministry, I believe that we in all things must be transparent, clear and that we will gain the trust of the Croatian regiment. So it doesn't matter who we're going to be, who's going to run something, but what way it's going to be done because when a critical mass is created, when people get trust, then there's definitely not going to be any doubt, no dilemma about what's done. But most importantly, young scientists stay here in Croatia and do it in a transparent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89183	You are absolutely right, counsellor, but in the next period of programming it is very much increased the amount of money which is possible to finance exactly the careers of young scientists, and of course those returnees who want to return back with quality research projects even more if they are focused on technology projects or innovations and patents, which so far in this form and to this extent was not possible because there was simply not enough resources as I say in the next period will be quite possible. On the other hand, it is certainly clear that if the funds are also, this was finally also noted by the State audit coming about from the state budget then probably someone should take responsibility for their spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89184	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89185	I thank the president. The Honorable Ministers. I'd like to draw your attention to something that is very badly solved in this law and should not remain that way until the second reading. Namely, art. 10.It is prescribed that the Management Board of the Foundation shall, among other things, make decisions on the financing of the projects, this law for the first time introduced the Committee of Objections, so you said that it is the expert body of the Foundation which will decide on complaints about the allocation of financial resources, so on this decision taken by the Management Board, and at the same time that the Management Board is designed as a body to appoint members of the Commission. Do you understand where the conflict of interest is institutionalised and why the committee appointed by the Management Board cannot question the decisions made by this Management Board?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89186	Dear MPs. Maybe it's not clear enough, but maybe we should explain. The Management Board may not only take priority research areas to discuss calls for projects, after the station and programme councils, so those who decide to define where individual project proposals are sent for reviews. Up until now, there have been complaints about the current system of work where those who have filed applications have been unable to file any complaints to anyone if they suspected that the selection and evaluation process of the projects might have been carried out later than the same council itself. In fact, it was a practice to send a review to five different places and then later selected reviews that were of those five, three of which were relevant and, if anyone suspected, had no one to complain about in this case, they can now complain about the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89187	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89188	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Fuchs. It says in the evaluations and sources of the resources needed to implement the law that it will not be necessary to provide additional funding to the state budget for the implementation of this law. What worries me is that it is well known that Croatia is at the very bottom of the European ranking in R & D. One of these essential preconditions for improving the work of the foundation is, in fact, an increase in funds for its work, and this is clearly not confirmed by this bill, and I know that you can now tell me in the next budget we will look for more funds etc., etc., but the change of the law itself will not improve the situation in our science and the output of our scientific works if we do not plan enough funds for it. In my opinion, modest in the current budget, these funds are very, very below the enough or below the EU average level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89189	The more money, the better. I agree with you, Your Honor, and I wouldn't mind if the funds were from the state budget if they could be provided much, much more. They are as much as you can see and compared to an earlier year bigger, not as we'd all like to, but that's exactly why we've put forth a strong effort to ensure the extra funding that's coming from the NPOO right now, and I said over 600 and some million kunas, although during the 4th year, but through one project period, I believe that the walking will continue to provide funding sources. That is why we have also predicted the possibility for the foundation to retain its special account on which extra funds that are not State budget funds can be deposited is intended for the Foundation to generate funds from donations. That stays.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89190	The next replica is the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89191	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, you yourself said that some 185 million kuna was paid out of the state budget for the work of the foundation for projects. What we've seen from the report from the trust fund that we had on the board is that it's actually a very low allocation of the trust fund in terms of withdrawing funds from the eu funds. I welcome that we increase the funds of the foundation in the state budget, but see if it is crazy to use funds on something that we could fully finance from the eu funds and I ask you whether in the future what negotiations may have been made with the managing body of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, for example, to pay for the tuition of these PhDs which are now paid from the trust projects and which are actually a huge financial burden on projects, while in other countries, for example, funding examples from the European Social Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89192	Dear MPs, so far projects financed by the Horizon or similar have gone beyond the very system of direct insertion of the foundation. Therefore, precisely by transferring and providing resources to the trust fund, which we will have at our disposal from the National Recovery and Recovery Plan in these projects that I mentioned earlier. We shorten this very complicated path and place a foundation in a position of faster adoption of approval and acceptance of projects. So in this direction, I think we've also done this legal proposal. According to the rules and, of course, this is provided for in certain project calls, it is possible, of course, to finance PhDs if the EU rules are to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89193	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89194	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor. So, I'll refer to the provision of the article. 20, these are your transitional and final provisions. Therefore, it is 90 days in which the statutes and other general acts of the foundation are to be harmonised in accordance with the provisions of this law. But I will refer to St. 1st and 2nd, which says that whoever is found in the duties of the Executive Director of the Foundation will continue to carry out his duty until the term of office. He won't be called the trustee's executive director anymore. He'll be the manager. So very unusual. If you have a statute that will give you a time limit to comply within 90 days then the statute may also prescribe other conditions or other conditions, of course, in accordance with the provisions of this law. It would be common if one found working at the workplace until a new statute is adopted and a competition is conducted on the basis of this, this is how he stays until the end of the term of office. A very unusual provision in the law, so I think we should change it by the second reading or align it with the usual practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89195	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89196	Thank you for your suggestion, Your Honor. We'll consider it, we get a chance to fix it by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89197	Thank you, Minister. That's what we used to crack the replicas. We're going to a club debate, ministers can sit down, you can sit down. First, do any of the board want to take a word? There isn't. Then I open the debate, the first reported club is the representative of the Mosta, the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89198	Art. The 5th principle of the love of treasure. The Foundation shall carry out tasks independently, transparently and impartially as part of the activities set out in this Act and the law governing the foundations. So the key feature of the foundation is its independence. There is a reason why there was no minister here in the previous law, no one then forgot that there was a minister of science and education but someone thought the way it was right, which is that the system of science and higher education must be unequivocally separated from the current political power, and therefore, in the Science Foundation Act, there was no real minister. It has, in its political jurisdiction, quite enough space and opportunities to influence the entire education system in other ways. However, when we talk about key institutions that regulate and enable the life of the scientific community, the minister there, and the minister had no access to it equally. Suddenly, we first come to the agenda of the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and by this law we amend the provisions of Article 2 where the rights and roles of the founders are assumed by the relevant ministry, we also change the role of the assembly. Then we now come to a new law concerning other independent and one of the most important institutions in science and higher education of the Croatian Foundation for Science and Higher Education where we do the same thing. We move the assembly and put the minister. In answer to my question why the Croatian Parliament would decide to reduce its powers, which we are overworked on, I think that we are real with the Croatian Foundation for Science is very poor and Croatian scientific is extremely dissatisfied with all relevant research which I will later look back on if we have time, how the foundation works, how transparently it assigns projects and how much of its vision and role in education. A strategic plan, so where's our strategic plan? We had a paradox of what the minister might have easily gone over that the board of directors stayed until, as long as he wanted because he stopped his mandate, he was not appointed new, and he was supposed to be nothing like nothing when we have no reports here when we should have European funds every 6 months but come to us 4 in 2 years and nothing. The law breaks every day. However, we are now talking about amendments which, for example, will be a strategic plan which, by the way, has not been adopted for a new period, and we know whether it will ever be adopted, we stopped at 2018. The Croatian Foundation for Science does not do its job, nor do we know what its vision is. Now, that same plan will be forgotten by the next generation of parliamentary deputies if we declare this even exists because we are not going to talk about it in this place. And now you have the paradox of these legal provisions, and I'm going to look back at a few of them. For example. the principles of the work of the Foundation Article 5, say the Management Board of the Foundation shall independently make decisions on programmes and grant financial resources in accordance with this law and the general acts of the Foundation. Autonomously, that is the keyword in paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The work of the foundation is, of course, based on the prevention of conflicts of interest, it is important to note that it is not detailed here, and there is a major problem in the Croatian scientific community especially when it comes to the funds to be allocated for projects, and these resources are often very high when it comes to natural sciences. The evaluation of projects in our small scientific community and the issue of its impartiality and transparency remains a major problem, and this law does not allow it to be touched at all, and should. The prevention of conflicts of interest is therefore nothing but some common flossules which are called upon to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and do not respect the specificity of the scientific community. Now let's go back to it on our own. This tells us Article 5, and then you come to Article 10 to the same board of directors where, once in paragraph 1, all what the Management Board does, unlike the previous law, added the consent of the Minister of Science. Thus, the strategic plan is no longer proposed to the assembly and no longer adopted in the assembly, but brought with the previous agreement of the science ministry. The Regulation shall also be adopted with the prior consent of the Ministry of Science. The statute also with the previous consent of the ministry. The Regulation on the conditions and procedure of the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation shall again go with the prior consent of the Minister of Science. So let us go back to this Article 5 and wonder if this independence of the flossula, which may have remained by mistake in the preceding article. I believe the minister likes to learn in the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science and implement his policy through that institution. However, it is not just like that, nor should we go just like that, and we here in the Croatian Parliament would be the first one to have the authority to stand up clearly against the proposal that removes us from our important role and leaves everything in the hands of politics. Perhaps we would stand up if the Croatian Parliament truly saw itself as a Croatian Parliament, as one body that plays its part in the trio of government, not as an extended hand of the ruling majority who does not exist alone at all, nor thinks it should play a significant role in society. The supervision of the legality of the work and the conduct of the foundation, so whoever decides whether or not everything is okay with the projects is or is not re-implemented by the Ministry responsible for the science of Article 18 of this Act. So, the minister is everywhere. The minister will even oversee himself, he will enter into all key documents and regulations that will be adopted and then oversee how they were implemented. So let's go back to that independence that was mentioned earlier. Article 20 is indeed extremely problematic, I cannot enter into whether it is a random oversight or part of a broader political plan, but instead of being a new Executive Director or an administrator that is essentially changing the role and that this refers to the period rather than until the end of the term of office, a sentence shall be entered until the appointment of the administrator under this law. Therefore, within 2 months of the date of entry into force of this law, the manager of the trust should be appointed on the basis of the public tender carried out in accordance with Article 11(1) of this Act. So we have to call a competition for the new manager. Now it's the executive director with completely limited powers, and the new law is enormously growing powers of the new manager, and you can't just transfer the executive to the new manager, but we need a new competition. In the end, if we're interested in what kind of vision of the future of the foundation's work that doesn't work within the scope and capacity it should serve the scientific community, it might look like. So, if you look at the report on the consultation with the interested public, you will encounter a very unusual situation. We're used to having these reports if it's a very large number of complaints, and that's usually what e-consultation is for. And now a legal proposal whose key change is, and these others are all cosmetic and well sounds good to just insert as many ministries into the work of the foundation as possible, i.e. to take over a trust that I already call a campaign on institutions since it is not the only one. You've only got one critical suggestion here, just panegirics. So imagine there are our citizens who have remembered to engage in e-consultation to praise a law. So consider how independent they are and think about what the future of the foundation will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89199	Next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89200	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues first allow me to say this. Public consultation on this bill was held in August of last year, so at a time that is certainly not the most appropriate for public consultation on this issue. This made it impossible for scientific organisations and higher universities to express their views on this legislative proposal in a structured way. And the real reason for the urgency was not, and now we see it even more clearly, because this law entered the parliamentary procedure on September 30th. Another October 7th was the subject of an examination of the Education Committee, and now here after four months it is almost now in plenary debate. This further raises or raises the question of motives for putting this legislative proposal into public consultation in August last year. The opening text also states this formulation: "Existing legislation" and you said it in your presentation, so the existing legislation is obsolete and does not regulate the financing system in a way that would be consistent with all the requirements of the current Croatian and European research space. This sounds like a strong sentence, but I am afraid that it does not say anything in substance because it is completely unclear that the arguments for this thesis, which are the provisions of an existing law that do not meet the requirements of the current Croatian and European research space. Article 3 is replaced by the following: It is said already to transfer the founding rights and obligations from the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Science and Education. In most of the countries we see ourselves and who we want and need to see, the body responsible for policy making and strategies from the organisations responsible for implementing these policies is separate, and the reason is simple independence is necessary because political independence alone allows for the independence of research and removes, of course, possible bias. In addition, Article 10 bypasses the Assembly. Key acts as set out in Article 10 are now adopted by the Management Board with the previous consent of the Ministry. It is an inadmissible influence of politics on the functioning of the trust. In addition to Article 18 and supervision of the legality of the work and conduct of the foundation, the ministry also here. The full purpose of the provision of Article 18, paragraph 4, which stipulates that the Management Board of the Foundation is obliged to submit a report to the Assembly once a year on the work of the Foundation almost leaves us with only some protocol duty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Why does Article 4 where the purpose of the foundation is described leave out exactly what is written in the current law, and I will quote: “Supply to advanced research recognised at international level by investing in top scientific ideas and excellent researchers.” On the other hand, Article 4 states that the foundation is founded with the purpose of developing and promoting science, which is not even supposed to be. The Foundation is established, i.e. it is founded to finance scientific research. That's what it's for. Furthermore, paragraphs two and three of that same Article 4 are not harmonised and in particular there is no reason why scientists are particularly apostrophyd at the beginning of a scientific career, as the emphasis should be on competence and excellence at international level. All basic sciences should be of strategic importance, because otherwise the term mentioned, I will quote "of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia" that term can be subject to interpretations and misused for other interests. It is unclear in section 4, which means the syntagm of internationally recognised research topics and also in this same article. 4. I would say that the declarative promotion of networking is a rather dual position because all positions can be favoured in cooperation that can and will not be productive or competitive. Art. Article 7 12. Do we really need the formation of the Board of Appeals? It is incorrect that so far the space or procedure that allowed the objections has been gone. The commission, as it is imagined, cannot decide but simply give an opinion because otherwise, the Board of Appeals would be ordered by the board of directors, which would be very bad. The complaints, as so far, can be decided by panels for certain areas of science in which they should participate in these panels, as so far, prominent scientists in each area, because in this one commission, who in one commission would be professional enough to assess the justification of the complaint for all areas of science that covers or finance the Croatian Foundation for Science. Art. 8, "Members of the Foundation Management Board shall appoint HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned scientific papers and results, taking care of the representation of all scientific areas," he writes. The problem, however, is that there are no criteria for selecting scientists who are truly top-notch and international recognition. And quite recently, we had the opportunity to see how, in practice, the proposal and appointment of board members actually happen without visible criteria. And it really does not show by any standard that the board of directors recently elected are members selected from the ranks of top scientists, taking care of the representation of all scientific areas. And does this mean that, after the adoption of this law, the board of directors will be disbanded? Art. 13. "In order to carry out the tasks of its work, the Management Board can set up scientific and professional committees." The current law says that members of these committees can also be foreign experts, and now there are no scientific and professional committees, so it is unclear why so. And finally. 17, this makes the foundation a budgetary user, according to Art. The 17th century 3. "The Foundation will now need to run business books and draw up financial reports according to regulations governing the way and keeping accounting of budget users." We do not think that this is good. We heard in the explanation four months ago, and it says in the opening part of the legal text with the accompanying materials, so we heard at the board's session that the Ministry of Finance asked it to be so, even if so, we believe it is, but we don't think it's a substantive argument. After all, the Act on Foundations in Art. The 38th regulation states that the foundations must conduct financial operations, reporting and accounting according to the rules governing the way in which the financial operations are managed and the conduct of non-profit organisations. How are we gonna make it up to each other now? That would be the shortest and most important thing about this bill. Because of everything we have stated, because of all the disputes and disputed elements in this law, we cannot support the proposed text of the law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89201	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of the Honored Representatives Oreshković and Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89202	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In professional and then political work, I am particularly focused on the internal structure of the state as a whole, and then on the internal structure of individual state bodies and institutions. A poor, intentionally poor and targeted misstatement of individual state bodies and institutions, misdefined powers of the body of these institutions, are a dysfunctional system, and such a dysfunctional system which does not have a well-designed internal and external control and control system is a feature of the state of disorder. In order to introduce order in such a system as I said on purpose so badly, that one day, in order to reduce corruption space and clientelism, everything that HDZ's authority has so badly agreed on will be necessary. Of course, we can do this one day when HDZ will no longer be in power, and until then it remains only to point, point, and point. So, from the work of the Science Foundation so far, it can be concluded that it has served more or less the interests of selected circles of the close. You'd like to introduce a little order to the President. I can't hear myself from the marbles on the right side of the assembly. You can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it. Therefore, the work of the Science Foundation so far can conclude that it has served the interests of selected circles that are close to HDZ's interest objectives, not science as such. In response to my reply, the minister himself confirmed that the funds allocated to individual projects were allocated on the basis of speculative criteria and speculative reviews, and that the award decisions could not be complained because the simple system of appeals was neither envisaged nor established under the provisions of the previously applicable law. The possibility of an appeal, the possibility of verifying, the control is a zero condition so that we can even consider ourselves or call ourselves a rule of law. However, this control and verification must be meaningful, and the system now being introduced for the first time by this new law cannot be considered to make any sense at all. What I see here as a emerging problem that is likely to be even bigger in the implementation than can be seen by reading the provisions of this text. So let me go in line, Article 10 of the Foundation's Management Board is defined as the body that ultimately makes decisions on project financing. Therefore, the decision on financing, the decision on whom and how much the administrative council will be assigned. At the same time, it is the administrative council of Article 12 that will establish a new panel of objections as the expert body of the foundation to decide on the complaints submitted on the allocation of financial resources. Now, I'm a mild cartoonist, and it's like I'm calling as some kind of council, here's a colleague of Ivanovic's as a commission to question the decisions on the allocation of financial resources that I've made myself... You can, so to this extent, this is pointless and nakaradic. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] In order to further enhance this senselessness, it is designed through Article 13 that the Management Board of the Foundation can establish permanent or occasional scientific and professional committees. I suppose it is imagined that these scientific and professional committees are carrying out reviews, but that is not what this law says. And everything that doesn't say in the law means that it deliberately creates an undeveloped, vague, cloudy space in which the foundation as a small state in the country will do what it comes up with. Well, gentlemen, dear, it's not the state of order, it's the state of disorder. So, we'll have some occasional scientific and expert committees that will do something that we don't even know will work for right now, have powers that we don't know what they'll be like, we assume they'll be giving some proposals and evaluations of the projects that have been received to the board of directors, the board of directors will make their own decisions on the basis of such advice, and then these decisions will be controlled by some other committee that re-emergences this committee, the board of trusts just appoints and forms itself. Thus, such a system is not worth anything, and with this we will not achieve this to become a science-based society, innovation-based society, and thus prosperity-based society. We will remain a small closed community in which large financial resources are allocated to those who, in some of our whispered current authorities, have similarly intervened for one of their acquaintances when something went down in the same institution that was working according to the rules that I was designing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89203	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and RF, Honorary Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89204	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, the development of science in Croatia should be imperative, but unfortunately it is not, and we see it through this law and through the state of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The Croatian Foundation for Science is ceremonially under the supervision of the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Science, and here, even few have concepts of what is happening in the foundation, mostly raise their hands and adopt trust fund reports. The Foundation is the only source of public funding for scientific research in us and the amount that I consider 207 million this year is even too small and we should invest more in science, but the question is how the team is managed. Unfortunately, the institution is managed as if someone's private farce, and scientists in the vast majority are silent about everything because they know it will go better in the allocation of funds. In addition to the huge conflicts of interest that exist there from the foundation come totalitarian decisions that can destroy scientific beginners' careers as well as scientific seniors. The Laboratory for the Study of Violence at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb conducted a network survey of scientists from 2 to 6 December 2019 on how they feel in communication with the nameless bureaucracy of the foundation. She referred to the leaders of scientific projects, 55% of the participants responded that she felt frustrated, half of them led to the fact that, in collaboration with the foundation, she felt too heavily exposed to nonsense, 40% responded to her feeling helpless, and 25% felt revolved. I think this is the information that should give signals to the ministry, but also to the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia what happens to money and in the foundation regarding the financing of projects. The survey calls for a report from the 2018 Institute Ivo Pilar. which says that the reform of the scientific system has led to its collapse, and among the critical points is the quality of the work of the foundation. By replacing the Foundation Management Board in the middle of last year and by re-establishing that body, the governing structure headed by the ministry has drawn closer to a step in gaining control of the funds that at least theoretical scientific projects should be financed on fully professional and transparent criteria. Over the past period, 700 different projects have been financed by more than a billion kunas, and have been fully self-sufficient and networked with equal agencies in the EU area. However, more speakers of the Nationals who wanted to remain anonymous, and this anonymity is something that should concern us all, believe that by choosing a new board of directors, this direction is at least seriously endangered. I quote, the foundation is an informal institution through which scientific research projects are financed and its leadership should not have any contact with the structures of executive government such as government and various ministries. On the contrary, a new board of directors has been appointed as even two recent state secretary or assistant minister, and other names are suspected, said an academic scientist who, of course, wanted to remain anonymous so as not to suffer the consequences and revenge. The Management Board of the Foundation is appointed to the 5th year, but the previous composition spent only 8 years, as explained from a clean energy because the government did not take care of the deadlines. The government does not care about the law proposed by HS and brought here by the ruling majority. But other laws are required of many subjects to respect and punish unless they are executed. All selected candidates have scientific work behind them, but in biographies Nikola Rozinski and Dražena Vicic Topic, however, they play a very important role in their functions in the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry. On the other hand, the Foundations Act clearly states that members of the administrative bodies must be top scientists warning a talker who wants to be anonymous and one of the previous members of the Governing Board. In such appointments he sees the state's and the Ministry of Science's intensities to get involved in the so far independent financing of scientific projects. Is that true we'll see in the future. According to physicist Antony Shiber of the Institute of Physics in the Foundation, they even encouraged themselves to this extent by their position of power to carry out a kind of scientific inquisition under cover of procedures and protocols towards those who dare to stop talking about problems in their work. It's fear that should shut everyone else's mouth. That may well be the case of Professor Dr. Getos Kalac, who dared to conduct among scientists, already mentioned a survey of dissatisfaction with the work of the foundation and then became the target of the foundation's committee for scientific honesty. The work of the foundation is also destructive to the social concept of science, especially because the foundation in its programming documents commits itself to excellence and international recognition, and calls these adjectives those projects that are approved on a biased and not transparent review procedure. So long-term and irretrievably, the concepts of scientific excellence and recognizability are humiliated, and they actually become subject to ridicule and synonym for favoring similar ones. Monopolist and personal interests led by the operation of the foundation effectively suppresses freedom and autonomy of scientific creation. It is not ethical and transparent, and it does not meet quality standards by declaring personal interests of quality. And I'll be back in history on May 30, 1990, the scene of HS, the speaker's a pok. Franjo Tudjman. I quote, we do not want to create nor to encourage subservient listeners, intellectual courtships and flattering careerists, nor blind politicians, political opponents or helpless haters, but responsible professional intellectuals and scientific professional institutions that would contribute to the well-being of their people and the overall improvement of the society in which they live and act. You can tell yourself that's how Franjo Tudjman would do it if he could say what's going on in science today and what's going on with that foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89205	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Excuse me, excuse me, Wesen. Vesna Bedekovic on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89206	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, for not jumping me, I'm kidding, of course, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Director of the Science Administration, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we have today the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science in its first reading, I will just remind you a little when we talk about HRZZ here then perhaps it is good to remind that the foundation itself was founded by HS under a special law just over 20 years ago under the name of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia and that the foundation itself has since 2009. acts under the name HRZZ and the basic purpose of the Foundation's establishment is primarily the promotion of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia and certainly support for scientific, higher education and technology programmes and projects. And what is important to recall is that the ultimate objective of these investments is actually to ensure sustainable social and economic development and certainly to encourage employment in line with these principles of social inclusion. And what is important to remind us of is the fact that the foundation is mostly financed by the state budget while the smaller part is financed by European and structural funds, then international cooperation through the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme and some others in a smaller part of the source. I'll remind you that according to the report that we have that foundation in 2019. A total of 174 million kunas of revenue from which 165 million kunas relate to the revenues from the state budget, and that it is in 2020. to research projects and careers of young researchers paid by the €185.9 million foundation and when we look at all together, we can conclude that the foundation has been from its design since 2001. by the end of 2020 paid just over 971 million kuna total for projects and for young researchers. I will also remind you that eight trust programmes have so far funded a total of 869 projects and 873 young founders, while most of the funding has been paid for research projects and some 86 million kunas, which makes up 46 budgets of the foundation. Then, for young researchers, about 64 million kunas or 34% of the Foundation's budget and for founding research projects 22.77 million kunas, and 15% of the Fund's total funds, and this speaks of the relevance of the Foundation and its work during its 20-year existence. What we have to say is that the Law on HRZZ was last amended in 2012. And that it really is after this now with this distance since 2012. To this day, the law required a novelty, first of all, to comply with the Foundation Act. And what is important to say, to remind you that the Croatian World Bank has made one analysis at the request of the Ministry of Science and Education as part of the project “Review of public expenditure on science, technology and innovation” and according to this analysis the Foundation's programmes have analysed from the aspect of functionality and efficiency, and recommendations have been adopted in this respect on the design and implementation of the funding programme of scientific activities. And in this sense, the new law that we are discussing today in the first reading is, above all, a clearer definition of the legal status of the foundation and the way it works and certainly what is very important is that the programmes financed by the Foundation and defined the way in which the programmes in question are financed, i.e. the foundations themselves, to increase the effectiveness and functionality of investments in scientific projects. Therefore, the proposed law plans to increase the quality and transparency of funding for scientific projects and programmes and, of course, what is also more visiblely clear are the bodies of the trust and their powers and control over the work of the foundation. As I said in my replica to Mr. Minister, and I wanted it to be explained in particular, the issue of legal personality and founding rights of the foundation that is in accordance with Article. 3. This proposal, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, is achieved by the Ministry of Science and Education, where the issue of independence and independence of the foundation has actually been withdrawn and raised. So what I think and what my colleagues and colleagues at the HDZ Club consider to be the purpose and purpose of this law above all, and thus we see it improving the work of the foundation in terms of encouraging greater operationality, and that is exactly what we see from that role the great Ministry of Science. It is very important to ensure a better flow of funds from eu funds and their more efficient exploitation and what is very important to ensure flexibility or flexibility in order to allow more competitive funding for different programmes and projects. I'm sorry that my colleague Lenart doesn't have and that he's out, listening to his presentation on behalf of their club, I'll just comment and say with all due respect, when it comes to the functioning of the foundation, about the way projects are reviewed and approved, then we need to know first of all the procedure so we don't get into a situation to read someone else's text that someone wrote to us and that we don't have a clue, so we don't have a basic knowledge of the procedure first of all, and then it can be further commented, especially if we take into account the fact that he's here behind us now for 20 years. The foundation's work as I said, and then we can analyze its functioning, its adjustment to the time we're in today, which is 2022. What we can and need, I think, is important, to compare our trust with similar institutions of that kind in EU countries that have different forms and different, different modes of action. When I look at our foundation, I see it somewhere as a hybrid form between the agency and the foundation and what I see and what I think is really important in everything that the foundation really owns the capital from which it can finance and finance everything that needs to be extra financed, and in that sense I and my colleagues and colleagues at the HDZ Representatives' Club think that this law will first and foremost highlight and improve the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science, to bring it into line with the Law on Foundations and Other Legislative Regulation and what is most important, we believe that this law will improve the operationality of the work of the foundation itself, and thus also its effectiveness and, of course, the competitive and effective financing of scientific projects in Croatia, and in that sense, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89207	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think I will be among those who will say that this law should have changed, but in these changes I am not sure and I will explain to you what I am thinking and how I am thinking and why this law is not completely acceptable to us in this kind of reading. In fact, I also mentioned this in the replica of the Minister, in the evaluations and sources of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law, the Proposer, excuse me, concludes that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. However, it is well known that Croatia is at the very bottom of the European ranking in R & D and one of the essential preconditions is actually to improve the work of the foundation, but in general this time Croatian science is an increase of funds for their work. And yes, some funds are increasing as the minister himself said from the Recovery and Resistance Fund, but it is a temporary fund that will last several years, and after that we will be left to ourselves again. Therefore, I would like this law and, at least, the minister said that, that the adoption of this law means more resources. It might be a component that we would be willing to support, like this left somewhere in the air and taught by practice so far, probably not going to be. Then, setting up a trust. Article 3(1) states that the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are being exercised by the Ministry of Science. This is new to the existing law, which does not mention the ministry and under which the de facto foundation for its work corresponded to the assembly. I think this proposed solution is bad, I think it would be much better if the foundation became responsible to the assembly and should be independent of the ministry, which among other things determines the principles of the foundation's work in art. Five. In fact, the preferred practice in developed democracy countries is that, in the process of funding top science, elected politicians have a direct impact only on the legislative framework, the purpose of principle and mode of work, and a transparent selection of top experts who are given such a kind of trust to manage. After that, the involvement of the ministry should be minimal or reduced to infrastructure logistics, not political or ministry, can exercise control over the legality of the work of the foundation in the schedule of funds, etc., but must not and cannot interfere with the work of the foundation, cannot be involved in the allocation of funds, cannot be involved in the content of the work of the foundation. It's an art like this. 3., it's left the same in the air, and in our view it shouldn't be like that. The next question is to define the purpose of the foundation. That's an art. 4th in St. 1st, I quote, the foundation is established with the purpose of developing and promoting science and technology in the Republic of Croatia, and is left out of the continuation of the sentence from an existing legal solution that I think is very important to keep, and that is, again, quote, and the ultimate goal of ensuring sustainable and social and economic development with the promotion of employment and the principles of social inclusion, the end of the quote. Furthermore, it is very general and has been defined in principle to whom the compensation is granted by means other than the applicable law. Although it is said that, I quote, the Foundation promotes scientific excellence and competence in funding research of national and/or internationally recognised research topics, etc., the end of the quotations, in which it is specifically encouraged. It is also said that the evaluation process is independent, objective, impartial and transparent without knowing how it will be ensured. Obviously, the Foundation's programmes and ways of action will be developed only by acts of the foundation itself, and the Assembly's representatives remain only hoping that the Foundation will encourage this way and ensure independence, objectivity, impartiality and transparency. Once again taught experiences when we let the rulings regulate certain things by any sublegal act, whether in this case the very acts of the foundation, and her leadership will elect the ministry, I'm not sure it'll produce the results that we'll be pleased with, not to say proud. The Management Board of the Foundation in Art. 8th and 9th says their term of office lasts four years. etc., etc. I don't think all board members should start and end at the same time. Why? It is precisely to ensure impartiality and as little political interference as possible in the sense that one government or one minister or any individual or group of individuals can affect the board of directors or that it is, for example, a product of more mandates, more ministers, more persons involved in the work of the foundation. Therefore, perhaps we should consider a solution in which perhaps a third of the members or half, now depends on how, as we agree, should be appointed in different times just to ensure a part of the continuity. Next, in Art. The Strategic Foundation Plan for a 5-year period in which the objectives and programmes which are in line with the long-term strategic directions of the Republic of Croatia are developed, says Article 10(2). Under the existing law, the strategic plan and the management board of the foundation propose the document to the assembly. I think we should stay that way because we are still talking about our trust, which is both a strategic institution and which the Assembly and whose work the assembly should discuss, at least in my humble opinion, but I say so remains for you to think about. Art. The 10th century says, excuse me, I'm back on this provision, but again with a good cause because I don't think the assembly should be excluded from hitting the direction of development of science and that's one of the reasons why we can't support this law. If it is left to the ministry itself in which the assembly has no influence other than the appointment of a minister with due respect I think it is not enough, I think it should be the subject of a broader discussion of all votes in society because I think we all share the goal of Croatian science actually being top-notch, to provide it with the best possible conditions and that this high house can say something about it. I also think it is good that the bodies of the foundation provide for an international advice that would be called top international scientists, possibly of Croatian origin, but not necessarily and whose task would be to continuously analyse the work of the foundation and propose ways of improving work to the board of directors. This may also be part of the external evaluation in order to perhaps make it popular today, but in any case I don't think it would harm the work of the foundation as such and improve it because sometimes a particular problem, in this case the development of science is much better seen from several ways, from perhaps the eyes of impartial observers, which would give us perhaps guidance and guidance on how to develop. This committee would of course not have executive powers, so his assignment would be advisory, but here it is, it may be some way to improve the work of the foundation. Why? Because we have top scientists on, at the world level, who are Croatian origins among other things. And here's the crown and the pandemic that showed that we have both epidemiologists and doctors who are top-notch and recognized in other countries' institutions. I don't see why they couldn't advise us how to improve the work of our foundation. So here is the hope that some of these proposals will be recognized and supported I will conclude this debate with the indication that we are not inclined to support such a form of law even though it is in the first reading because of the arguments that I have stated in the debate. And finally, Croatia is even though a small country has a great potential of knowledge that every country has in its children, students, scientists. It is extremely necessary to cultivate this potential because just as we are recognizable as a tourist and sports country we have the potential to be recognized as a country where science is valued and in which science flourishes just to invest in science just as we invest in tourism in sport, and instead we stamp Doctors of science through dubious and unworthy procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89209	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89210	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister. What's visible from the law itself is that it's actually quite general and we can say shrub and how it usually happens in our country will require a lot of sublegal acts and various regulations to fully operate the work of the foundation itself. What we notice if we go to read articles and articles of the law is a very vague provision. 4th century of the 3rd law on therefore financing the work of researchers themselves at the beginning of a scientific career. We think that this should explain much more in detail what researchers mean at the beginning of a scientific career because there is indeed a very ambiguous explanation, whether it means doctorates, post-doctors, assistants, and we certainly think that it should be classified before the second reading. We also notice that in art. 12th century 2. The Committee for Objections that we have already mentioned here several times is named for four years, while all other bodies in the foundation's work system are named for five years, it should also be harmonised. So you can't have one body that's five years old all over, and that's one body that's actually important because it's going to be objecting to the work of the foundation that works on four years. Furthermore, we too feel that it is really necessary to amend articles relating to the supervision of the legality of the work of the foundation itself. We saw that in art. The Ministry of Science is also responsible for the supervision and legality of the work of the foundation itself, and it is very contradictory that the same article further states that the report is submitted to HS once a year. I don't think I should go any further when you see it's very contradictory. Let me just remind you that, for example, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development as the highest body, we can say in the system of science and higher education corresponds to HS precisely in order to gain such independence in work and the legality of work itself. Furthermore, I must also refer to what I mentioned, and in the replica, the Minister of Foundation was set aside 185 million kuna from the state budget for last year's work on projects. We were all here from the opposition to witness that our hand and hat refused as the domino effect of our amendment that we have endured in the field of education, science, higher education because there is no money in the budget. I have already cited earlier, and I think this really shouldn't be a big problem in implementation because it's about projects that should be very similar to those financed from eu funds that the work of the foundation is changing in a way that instead of the current 85% that are financed from the state budget and 15% from the eu funds, I think we should reverse that reciprocity and that it should actually be financed by the eu funds, and all of this so that in the state budget we just have the resources for those projects and things that we can't finance from the eu funds. And what I must say is that it was the very main regret of the audit that was carried out over the work of the foundation, and we have seen it from the very report that we had on the Assembly Committee, is that there is no strategic plan that we believe should be adopted as soon as possible, and of course if the Assembly is not responsible for overseeing the legality of the foundation, that we will even know whether this strategic plan has been adopted and whether this audit recommendation is as such and respected. As regards the very allocation of projects and the evaluation of project proposals, I must also say that in the scientific circles there is an enigmous government when it comes to these evaluation criteria, and no one really knows how they are evaluated, how the reviews of these projects are carried out, and I believe that these criteria should be really more transparent. For example, we mentioned the Horizon programme here today, i.e. the Horizon, and we know exactly what the evaluation criteria are on these funding programmes for scientific projects, and we believe that such a thing should also be implemented on the evaluation of project proposals concerning HRZZ. We talked today about PhDs, young researchers who are funded through projects and work on foundation projects, but what is visible from the very report of the foundation, and I think that we all need to worry together is a big dropout, or a small percentage of those who study doctoral and finish. If you look at the report you have on some 660 PhDs, only 60 of those who study and bring an end. This is partly due to the obligations of the study itself, which is due to the obligations of the projects they are employed on, but we must look into the truth in the eyes and say that these young people are well-occupied and the institutions they work on, not the obligations of the project or the obligations of their doctoral studies, but we can tell some regular administrative obligations on the institutions where they are employed during the duration of the project. In addition to the dropouts of an extremely small number of PhD students who are actually completing a doctoral study, there are extremely few patents created as a result of trust fund projects. If you look at the report all three patents were created, and from that the doctors participated in the development of all one patent. I think it was more urgent to regulate the legislation on the protection of patents and intellectual property before the adoption of this general scrupulous law on the work of the HRZZ, especially with regard to a small number of scientific projects of the foundation related to the economy. And lastly, but I would say the most important problem, which I will do more and more in the individual debate, are certainly the rights of co-workers, assistants and post-doctors who, unfortunately, are on a large number of institutions to which they are employed, and by the mahogany of scientific projects just funded by the HRZZ were treated as second-class and third-rate employees, and I think that this is something that the Independent High Education Union itself has repeatedly warned the Ministry of Science and Education, the Rectoral Assembly of all institutions in the system of science and higher education and the representatives of the ministry have been at these meetings, but in fact how much my colleagues inform me that they are working and are employed on these projects has actually changed nothing significant for them. We are inclined to support this bill, of course, with some changes regarding the second reading we will definitely submit amendments to, and this is the following, we need to regulate more clearly what it means for young researchers in the law itself and we believe it is not acceptable for the supervision of the lawfulness of the work of the foundation itself to be carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education, but should leave it in the hands of the HS or the Assembly Committee on Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89211	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Rade Simičević's turn and it's the first individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89212	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would not like to talk about this law with any prejudices, so I would like to talk about what I read, which is that the foundation is fundamental to the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia and what is equally important as supporting scientific, highly educated and technological programmes and projects, and all with the aim of ensuring sustainable social and economic development with the promotion of employment and the principles of social inclusion. How is the treasure financed? The Foundation is funded, we heard most of it from the state budget, and one part from the European Structural Funds and the international cooperation of the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The foundation generated a total of 174 million kuna of revenue of which 165 million were from the state budget and that it was in 2020. the cost of the research projects and careers of young researchers was 185.9 million kuna, and more than 971 million kuna for young scientists and researchers were paid from their draft foundation to date. All programmes funded 869 projects and 873 young researchers. Why was it necessary to pass a new law? The existing legislation is obsolete and cannot regulate a system of science funding in a way that would comply with the requirements of the current Croatian and European research space. This is necessary because the HRZZ Act was passed in 2001. and does not comply with the provisions of the Foundation Act. Therefore, the aim of the proposed law is to clearly define the legal status of the trust and the way it works. The new law plans to increase the quality and transparency of funding for scientific projects and programmes both national and international. What is important to emphasize in art. 3. define who is the founder of the treasure, art. 4th Purpose of Treasure, Art. 4th century 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. 4th century. The Foundation promotes scientific excellence, competence, the creation of new knowledge and society based on the knowledge of innovation research, the 6th evaluation process is independent, objective, impartial and transparent, sufficiently, clear enough. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Art. 5. further says the principles of the Foundation's work are based on scientific excellence, international quality criteria in research, transparency and equality, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the highest ethical standards and the insurance of academic freedoms. Art. 6. the beneficiaries of the Foundation's financial resources may be legal persons in accordance with the rules governing scientific activity. The other articles refer to the bodies of the Foundation, the Management Board of Foundations, the Heads of Law, the Board of Appeals, the Statutes and other general acts, assets of the Foundation, financing and financial operations. I believe that this law will bring full legal certainty, quality and transparency to the financing of scientific projects and programmes and thus encourage young scientists to stay here with us in Croatia, to achieve their scientific goals and to clearly help the community they belong to with their knowledge. Minister, I think this law is good and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89213	Thank you, too. The first replica of Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89214	Thank you very much. In your debate, you have actually made a brief analysis of the work of the foundation over the past 20 years of its existence, and I am pleased that you have listed all the resources that have been invested in the development of scientific projects, but in particular in encouraging young scientists, young researchers, which I believe has contributed significantly to the remainder of a part of them in Croatia. And what's most important is that in your presentation you explained why it was important to pass a new law and that I agree with you and ask for your opinion once again. So, first of all, I believe that this law is the most important thing to do is to refresh the work of the foundation and improve its operationality. Therefore, it is not about any fall under anyone's influence or taking away independence but above all about improving operational performance in order to make more effective use of the resources that the foundation will have at its disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89215	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89216	Thank you, colleagues. Yes, the most important source here is to provide money and support young scientists. We are a small country, we fight to be a land of knowledge, and we should certainly invest in young scientists. They're the future and they're actually the added value that can enlarge our community and society, so if you want through material gain. I hope that this foundation will respond to the challenge and that certainly young scientists will find their place, and once again we have witnessed that there are very young scientists in Croatia who need support, who need to be given a chance, and clearly we must do everything possible to make it transparent, to make it visible and simply to function in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89217	- Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89218	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Several times in your debate, you pointed out the word transparency, so don't you want us all to simply agree that the work of the foundation as such doesn't matter, it should be clean and that in fact this provision put into the law that the Ministry of Science and Education conducts supervision of the legality of the work that is not meaningful, that it really creates a lot of space we can say for doubt that it will cast some doubt on the work of the legality of the foundation itself, and we have seen the very indifference when we voted on the Law of the Military University which we of course did not support, that then, we have a conflicting situation of the Ministry of Science and Education took control of the work of the university itself, as you stated in your own debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89219	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89220	Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, but what you just said, I don't see it the way you explained it. I could agree with one share that transparency is the most important, but also whether it is possible for the assembly to be a body that will decide in these situations always and everything. If the council has delegated to the ministry, do we trust the people of the ministry and the work they do? I think that we must also have that simple and the ministry should make its decision. It's very important here whether to create a critical mass for something. If you remember the electronic enrolment in high school, then the Croatian public was suspicious, but after a year or 2. Who talks more about enrolment in high school, means clean, transparent, clear. No matter what happens now, no one mentions politics or politicians because they have no problems. I hope there won't be any problems in this Science Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89221	- Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89222	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Simičević, at the beginning of your presentation, you said that the Croatian Foundation for Science was founded to promote science and higher education and technological development of the Republic of Croatia with the ultimate objective of social and economic development and employment, and thus to raise citizens' standards. Tell me, what is the significance of such a foundation, and does this foundation meet these goals? Also, how are you a longtime educational worker, what is your experience with education-related foundations?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89223	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89224	Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, I absolutely agree with everything you said. We're a small country, we don't have natural resources, we don't know ore so we can sell something, so we Croats can sell brains, and we're smart enough, wise enough and capable. So here's an example when you look at our Croats who are outside our homeland, they are successful, they have careers, they have everything. However, when we are here in Croatia as soon as we have five people on, we immediately create a problem from what is not. I absolutely trust this foundation, and I believe that it will certainly respond to the challenge and that young scientists who cannot get enough money that this foundation will be their incentive to stay here in Croatia and in fact return that invested knowledge and that we will certainly have better and better, if you want more honest society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89225	Thank you. Selling brains, but keeping a little bit, yeah, selling, but a little bit keeping your mind. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89226	I thank the president. Your Honor, you said this law was passed because the previously applicable law had outdated procedures, so this law corrects it. Please state to me one single literally one single concrete example of an outdated procedure which is now being established by the provisions of this new law, and has not existed before, to see how this transparency, your better procedure, the resolution of conflicts of interest seems to be in practice. Do you know anything about it or are you only able to repeat as a broken record that this law is an improvement and that it will be good, quality and transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89227	Here's your answer. And you're not done or is it a break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89228	Drama break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89229	Thank you, colleagues. I consider your replica a pure provocation, so I won't bother to answer anything because simply what I would say would not come to your ears, so you'd better live in your beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89230	You don't have any more replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Sanja Radolovic is on her way now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89231	Thank you again, dear Vice President HS. Oh, don't be so angry with our colleagues from the position, we even said here that we are inclined to support this law because our goal, the legal proposal, because our goal is to develop science, is to support the work of young researchers and our scientists, but of course it's not always perfect, so we don't think this bill is perfect either. What I announced in my debate on behalf of the club is certainly what concerns us in particular, and I think that we all need to be concerned together, and these are the rights of co-workers, assistants and post-doctors on projects, especially scientific projects financed by the Croatian Foundation for Science which we are discussing today. So they sent me conclusions from the independent scientific and higher education union that they sent to the ministry only, but I must say in advance that it is not just the main actor, the biggest actor, of course, there are institutions where these young researchers are employed, the Ministry should be there, we should say, some extended intermediate hand how in a nice way perhaps intervenes in what these institutions are in accordance with the Labour Act and the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education itself is obliged to do on the rights of these young researchers. It should be said that, therefore, from the unions, I was warned of the unacceptable practice of unequal legal status and violation of the rights of employees who are employed in higher education science institutions in cooperative jobs, especially assistants and post-doctors, to work on specific projects. What they are looking for, and of course, by summing up the whole legal argument, is that assistants and post-doctors working on a project in institutions in the system of science and higher education are treated as public officials, regardless of the funds for their salaries and other material rights of employment are not provided from the state budget. Also, following the preliminary conclusion, assistants and post-doctors employed in scientific projects, and in accordance with the contracts concluded on work, they must have equal rights and obligations as well as assistants and post-doctors whose salary is secured from the state budget. Under point 3, I would certainly say that the salary of assistants and post-doctoranados should not be determined in gross or net amounts, but must be defined by a coefficient of a certain government regulation and a basis agreed between the Government and the trade union. We have almost daily cases of continuing to pay for assistants and post-doctorans in their contracts, as far as scientific projects are determined in gross and net amounts, thus putting them directly into a second-rate position on the institution where they are employed, all contrary to the Labour Act. I would also say that what the union is asking for for the rights of these young people is the mandatory application of full-scale collective agreements for assistants and post-doctorates employed in scientific projects, regardless of the sources of funding, salaries and other material rights of employees, so, for example, these people today have no rights to Christmases, regressions, all of what they should have because they are treated as second or third-row employees. And what the union is saying, by countering all legal arguments, is that employees have the right to seek the difference between wages and material rights based on laws and collective agreements back to 5 years and, if necessary, the same rights to be exercised in court. I hope that the Ministry will intervene, so the representatives of the Ministry were at these meetings and that they will simply understand all these institutions, that they realize what kind of wealth they actually have in their institutions, that these are all young and valuable to our people, our young researchers and that they should no longer be placed in a subordinate position compared to the other employees of the institutions, because unfortunately in practice the situation is significantly different and practically from the co-workers working on scientific projects literally creates a category of second-class employees. Therefore, they do not have any additional material rights from working relationships, and at certain institutions it has gone to such an extent that the assistants and post-doctorates working on projects and whose salaries are secured from the project are not considered employees of the institution at all, but employees of the projects themselves, and so are their labour contracts. I warn that such a thing is highly illegal and here, I hope that this burning situation that they are constantly alerting from the union will be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89232	Thank you. No, no, you have one replica, Mr. Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89233	I thank you Vice President, dear colleagues, respecting your scientific career, I will only ask you, following this Foundation, if you really believe that this law that has been passed that he is an improvement in the work of the Foundation and whether you think that he was brought to violate or indeed, that we are responsible, mature, normal people who want to respect the laws passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89234	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89235	Well, you've asked me a very provocative question, I hope you're aware of it, so I think we're witnessing ourselves how the laws and all the sublegal regulations in this country today, we can say, the rule of law is breaking, yes, I certainly think it might be a good intention, and that's why I said that we're willing to support this bill's proposal to advance the work of the Science Foundation itself, but recently we've had a report on the work and with really a lot of positive projects, everything that's being funded from the Foundation, there's a lot of room for a positive shift, and on the basis of that, I'm here, in fact, all of what's controversial, I've commended what's good, but in principle I think that the Law itself may be too general, that there's still some more detailed provisions that we should have been built into it in order not to have two sense of interpretations. And I repeat, what is most important is not contained in the Law itself, and these are the rights of employees of young researchers employed on these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89236	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89237	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs. Here, first of all, I'd like to know if Agent Rada Šimičević has heard from you the correct answer, or if you'll all, in equal ignorance, pat him on the shoulder and tell him how good this law is. And then I would like to look back on what my colleague Radolovic said in the previous debate, so you've all said exactly and nicely, but none of the the thesis that you've raised is directly related to this Law or the law, it's being dealt with in some sublegal acts, and that's the main problem and the essence of this debate. I think we're obviously confused and we've forgotten what the law is, which the law says or should at least write, which is one of his sublaws. What is an even bigger problem, we have forgotten what the role and tasks of HS are as a legislative body in the process of creating and creating state institutions and bodies. We forgot because we created a party state in which the party in power through its executive authority determines and tailors and measured all things and that is exactly why the sinking of the Croatian state and that is why Croatian scientists are running out, so all of these allegations of powerful means that we can withdraw a simple story that doesn't hold water. Since recent Croatian history, since the acquisition of independence and independence, Croatia has never been to lower branches and what we have heard here today, and among other things in Rada Simičević's debate, it is terrifying for me. So, among other things, there was a line that said that the Parliament has delegated something to the Ministry, so actually, if we trust that Ministry to do something right. No, HS did not fully grant such consent and such delegation of powers to the executive authority. It was given by his obedient congregational majority. And what is actually happening is that instead of defining through one law what bodies will exist in the Science Foundation, what powers will have, by which criteria and by which the funds will be allocated, who will be those who evaluate the arrival of applications, how to define the conflict of interest of each individual instance that decides and who will control this conflict of interest, we have a situation in which literally as a broken record, by ruling, repeats that in this law everything will be transparent, procedures established, more quality than they were before, while none of them knows how to specify one, one procedural provision, because simply no procedural provision in this Law, gentlemen dear of the HDZ, writes, so you interfere with those benches as much as you will. But you can't read that provision because it's just not there. And that's what the subject is, the subject is the quality of these laws, and the subject is what the Constitutional Court has warned in many days, that procedural issues, procedural issues, decision-making on someone's rights and interests must not be regulated by a sublaw. In some other laws, the Constitutional Court broke those laws and said it was constitutionally unacceptable. And we've been calling together HS ever since the beginning of this 10th time more and more often we have a situation where that's exactly what's happening. To form some bodies, here is the Science Foundation, but nothing better is not even the Earthquake Recovery Fund. So these are institutions that serve as pure flow boilers, in which according to non-existent criteria, according to non-existent rules, literally according to imaginary warm water, as they do at some point, they share funds with hand and hat, but not to those to whom it should be intended, but to the chosen ones, the chosen ones. In translation, similar. You've created such a state, and you've perpetuatedly maintained such a state in this kind of bad law. Because this institution has become weak. She lost her initial constitutional purpose. And such a state really must one day be demonized and made new that will exist as it is imagined in the Constitution, such a state is not presently presently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89238	I didn't notice any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I am obliged to give two violations to the Rules of Procedure, which you will not answer, but only to the replica, ma'am. Nuts. So the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89239	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Art. 238. Representative Oreshkovic really likes to represent himself and to think of himself as a highly educated person, a moral vertical that gives all of us lessons, of course, most of all to HDZ and us MPs and I have nothing against it. But we don't have to put up with such insults. It's really insulting and he's hurt. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89240	Thank you. Time. Ma'am. Murganic, I noticed only the heat of speech, but no offense. No offense,... No offense, otherwise,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Otherwise, I would have to give you a warning, of course, because it was a replica, it was a pure replica. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you prove to me that there was an insult, I'll give myself this one, give a warning. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just tell me, where was the insult of a personal nature? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes or no? Here you go. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89241	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, what seems to you to be either not an insult or an insult to the Rules of Procedure, this was a pure violation of 238. The colleague, not for the first time, expressed herself very badly, from an elevated tone to a colleague named Šimičević, called someone who spent his whole life in the field, unlike Mrs. Simičević. who stands before us, that he doesn't know, that he doesn't read, that he doesn't know what he's talking about and that someone's whispering to him, that's what you should protect. But it is already known that your criteria for Mrs. Oreshkovic, unlike HDZ and fine, I accept your warning. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89242	Time. I have to give you this warning because it was a replica, but this one, listen. I know HDZ when it's in opposition and how it speaks and in opposition, when it's in opposition. So, uh, it's a way of speaking, I mean, there, but it's not personal insults. I mean, at least I think so. If you, you know there are ways to... You know that, ma'am. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Murganic, don't, you know there are ways that you.../incomprehensible... please. Please. ... I'm sorry, I'll start, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. There are ways to prove that I am wrong and that is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Mr. Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89243	Dear MPs, I don't know how many people have prepared for this debate, but I bet a few MPs have looked at what we have on the pages of our office. I bet a few of them looked at the database and I bet a few of them saw what it said in that database. Mr. Fuch knows, our minister knows that the projects are really listed inside, there are 2331, but I couldn't find any information on how these projects ended and what the results of these projects were. If we knew that too, it would be transparent. We know the money was allocated, the money was spent, but we don't know what it was spent on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89244	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89245	Thank you, colleague, so here I am openly setting a challenge for someone to read me a procedural provision in this law that speaks of how applications will be submitted and the funds, let someone show me the provision of a law that defines how conflict of interest will be solved for those who will decide on the applications they have received, let someone show me a single provision that guarantees transparency of the procedure and the improvement of the system of allocation to young scientists. When such a provision in this law shows me I will publicly apologize to the offended HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89246	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Ivana Posavec's turn. Otherwise everyone will, I see in order that everyone will have the opportunity to answer what is said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89247	... This topic today is extremely important, I would say that this may be one of the most important topics that we need to discuss here. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Col. Domagoj Hajduković said on behalf of the Social Democrats Club that in this proposal, the law is controversial, which we can support, which we are looking for answers on which we have dilemmas. So I will therefore allow myself one completely different, one personal approach to this law and through the debate I will show, try to show one other picture of Croatia. Croatia, which we know is a small country, that its manufacturing industry is on its knees, that exports are practically negligible, but we also know that this small Croatia has the potential of knowledge that every country has in its children, in its students, in scientists. But, of course, that potential will come to light if it gets right, if we all believe it can be the greatest driving force of this society. And when we remember some data from the census that has recently been completed and published, when we think of the devastating data that comes to us from a variety of measurement scales in the EU, then we are left with this one single hope, hope for our young people, hope for our future. It is essential, then, that we recognize this potential, to raise awareness of it, to make it clear to us what it can mean and to cultivate it because from it inexplicably our treasure, our knowledge of our country can become something great, it can grow and it can give added value to our little Croatia. Because just as we are recognizable as a tourist and sports country, we have the potential to be recognized as a country where science is valued and flourished. I believe that, but we can only do that if we start to evaluate science and invest in science as much as in tourism or sports. And instead, I know that it's not easy for you to listen to, we're stamping on the Doctors of Science who in no other country in the world could by any standard be. I was looking directly at you at the current morning and I saw a serious discomfort in the awkward questions that were opening up here in the hall. Because you know that you had the right answer and that you represent what's right. My colleagues and colleagues may remember a name here today I will pronounce him Ilija Srpak, Ilija was mentioned many times in Croatian media several years ago. The first was written about him as the best Croatian student who won countless awards in national and international competitions, and shortly afterwards he was written about as the best Croatian student who decided not to study at any of the Croatian universities but also enrolled in British Cambridge. In one statement, Elijah said, I will now quote it, in Croatia good students consider it one who can sum up fractions, in Cambridge even Olympics make them better, they are not good enough, they have to learn more, I wanted to be in such an environment potential and challenging, at no time did I regret that I entered a study at Cambridge I can say that I regretted that I was even considering studying in Croatia. If this doesn't sound sad, disappointing to you colleagues and colleagues, Elijah is not the only one. Not only are those who have to flee from Croatia because their existence here is threatened, Croatians are also fleeing from Croatia who are crying for quality education and a life dedicated to science because it is crystal clear that in Croatia education and science are not worth it, that education and science are not being invested and that education and science are not accounted for. It has been centuries since scientists who have been in charge of the world acted in Croatia, we all know them very well, but at one point on a track, that train has turned completely and gone in the wrong direction. We are no longer a country where scientists can act and develop our society and contribute to the welfare of the state. We're the country scientists are running from. Today, citizens are still in possession of names that are very relevant in world science, but they work as part of universities and scientific institutions, unfortunately in foreign countries, in other countries. They're not members of our Academy of Science, they're members of the Academy of Science of Other Countries. I repeat, infinitely sad And disappointing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89248	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89249	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your individual debate, you have really taken such an emotional look at the subject of scientists, on what we want in Croatia at all. We now have the Law on Foundation for Science, where the main challenge is to actually manage the foundation or the way the foundation will be defined under the great influence of the ministry. It kind of seems to me that when you decide to do some new law or if you decide to make changes and supplement laws that it would always be polite to listen to those who, by that law, will do something about what they think. What young scientists think about that is that one day they're going to get into a situation where they're going to apply, which they think means this kind of bill. I'm afraid the whole law by what they think than they do to someone else. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89250	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89251	Unfortunately, colleague Dark Taritash, as many times as I will agree with you this time. So, these, this ratio of powers and responsibilities that this law gives the Croatian Science Foundation, or which the ministry receives, may also contribute to solving all these or at least some of these problems that I have listed, but if we do not continue to hear people who are worthy, who have knowledge and who have been educated, we will continue to let new Elijah happen. And you new Elijah, now you've given me a chance to say, tomorrow may be Dora, William and Dorian. Those who know, know that it is a very valuable family from Popovaca who has achieved countless worldwide results, and who here in the Croatian Parliament have had the opposition that this little boy, that this little boy gets an Oscar because he was too young for the achievements he has achieved So we break down the barriers and let people develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89252	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89253	Thank you very much. Once again, respected ministers, respected board of science at the Ministry of Science and Education, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I said part of the debate on behalf of our Club of Representatives of the HDZ, part of it will only continue for a short time to allow and repeat so here is the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science new after 20 years of the existence of the foundation itself and it is also an opportunity for a little talk and to analyse the work of the foundation so in the past 20 years. It is an indisputable fact that the foundation, it is important to say, is mostly financed from the state budget while, in part, it is financed from European Structural Funds through international cooperation, let's say, the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme and then a small, small part of it from some other sources, and I consider it necessary to point out that this message, and to Mr. Minister, it is necessary every year to increase the funds from the state budget continuously. And we on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture each year are discussing, on the report of the Foundation for Science and, of course, with a number of positive works of the Foundation each year, the Assembly Committee points to the need for a continuous greater allocation of financial resources from the state budget into the Foundation for Science just to ensure that the funding of the Foundation is constant and as little as possible relying on project financing, because the foundation should actually have one potential of its own for therefore extra funding, and I believe that the extra funding is, among other things, what is invested in excellence. And if we look at these figures, so if we're going to go cumulatively now, then we're going to have to note that over the past 20 years, the largest part of the work of the foundation and the financial resources is somewhere 46% of the total cumulatively all these years, and 86.8 million went to research projects, 63.9 million to young scientists, young researchers, and that's about 34% of the total budget, and 15% and 27.7 million to so on. established research projects that I think are extremely valuable. What I need to stress once again, and to draw attention to all of you who are asking questions about procedures and asking the question of evaluation of projects and some report, it seems to me that my colleague has asked me a question about the effectiveness or implementation of projects financed by the Foundation for Science, an important document is the World Bank's World Bank document, which the Croatian World Bank has developed within the framework of the project Public Expension Review for Science, Technology, Innovation. This is one document on the Ministry's pages and covers some 200 pages and, among other things, the Foundation's programmes have therefore been analysed in terms of functionality and efficiency and recommendations have been adopted on the design and implementation of the funding programme of scientific activities. Among other things, there lies the answer to why a new law is needed, why it needs to be tempered. Of course, what I said and in my first presentation on behalf of the club, I think it is important after 20 years of working on the foundation when we analyse its work to compare it with similar institutions in EU countries that really have different forms and are therefore formed as different communities. When we observe our foundation I will repeat it again and when we look at it both organisationally and structurally and the way it works, I would say that after 20 years of working we have a kind of hybrid between the agency and the foundation. What is most important is that our foundation in the form in which it works has what is very important, has capital that finances what needs extra funding, and what is most important I believe that this law through improvement, modernisation and through strengthening the operationality of the Agency's work is actually going to first and needs as an effect to achieve the effectiveness of the foundation, the effectiveness of competitive financing and what is most important excellence. To invest financial resources in excellence, and that's what my colleague before me is about. through this boy's story it seems to me to be told. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89254	Thank you. And now you have several replicas, Mr. Simicevic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89255	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues here you spoke of the funding of the foundation and you said it was financed from the state budget, from the structural funds, or from the Swiss-Croatian society. Do you think that the state budget should more single out money for science or for young scientists, given that we are also representing ourselves as a state of youth and eager knowledge and simply as much money as possible so that more people should stay here in Croatia and achieve their scientific goals for personal gain, and clearly for the community to which they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89256	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89257	Thank you, dear colleague, for this, this replica, this question, of course, is what I pointed out right at the beginning of my debate. I personally believe that it is very important by the state budget every year to continuously increase the allocations for science precisely in order to achieve a continuity and security of funding for scientific projects. That's very important because if we get discontinuity and if we don't have the money in our hands all the time then, then we have a problem. Of course, it is possible, in part, to work and foundations and all research projects, regardless of who implement them, are institutes, are higher universities, etc., so they can be project-funded by attracting funds from the EU, but what must be dominant is the separation from our state budget, with of course the generous use of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89258	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89259	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of yours, a colleague started on the fund's finances, so during 2020, the foundation paid 186 million kuna for subfinishing projects, and from its draft to today, 971 million kunas have been paid, financing 869 projects and 873 young researchers. So when we look at it, it's a considerable amount of money, it's almost a billion kunas that the foundation has and still has, and now that your opinion is as high school staff, is that satisfactory, do you think that it should be more and what young scientists say about the foundation and all the funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89260	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89261	Thank you very much, dear esteemed colleague, it's a significant, significant money, but when it stretches to 20 years of agency existence we can then when we look at that number say it's really a lot. But then we can on the other hand say it's really small. So depending on which side we're looking at whether it's a glass of half or half. Personally, I think it's a generous sum, but it's not enough, and it should be even bigger when it comes to funding, promoting excellence and funding, and I would say empowering our young scientists. You asked me what our young researchers, young scientists, so 34% of this amount you've been talking about this year has been invested in young researchers, and I think it could have been more. It's a big number, a big percentage, but it's supposed to and could have been more. And you really need to, this is one step, one step towards really trying to to increase these figures and will naturally increase through this Regulation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89262	Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89263	Thank you very much, Vice President. My fellow Members, it's terrifying to me what a rhetoric of insult is in this, the passing of any law in this high house. It means that nothing is wrong in this country, and now that 20 years later, when some law is finally passed that will sort of be harmonised, in a way that allows for more transparency and better funding and the functioning of the foundation to be seen again in that law nothing good. I don't think that's good, if young people look at it both in Croatia and out of Croatia, and I don't know what kind of opinion they would have on their country, and I don't think it's so bad, and there's a lot of good things and this law that brings it here. Of course, this is the first reading, and it's likely that some more things can be coordinated until the second reading, so I'm curious about what you think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89264	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89265	Thank you, dear esteemed fellow Members, so look when there are no other tools and when there are no other arguments to testify about the effectiveness of those who speak so then go through the criticism, then go through the defetism, then go through the drive of the tendency that nothing in this country is right, then go through the drive of the tendency that HDZ is a party that does not know how to lead this country along with its coalition partners and then go in all possible other ways except constructively and except normally. However, there is this response of Croatian citizens, there is this response of voters who chose us and there is this measurement, a survey of ratings measurements. And a poll of the other day, yesterday, apparently showed 30% of Croatian citizens' support to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and the government of the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners in response to this other side of the council. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89266	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89267	Dear MPs, I congratulate you on the percentages obtained in the survey, and I believe that Mr Plenkovic will get even more and more support from the moment he starts listening to the opposition. We've been invited here multiple times to give advice, to make recommendations, to make suggestions. We gave them through countless amendments, none of them were accepted, or maybe 0.1% of the amendments were accepted. Here today I turned my attention to what would be good to increase transparency as far as the law is concerned. So, I said you have a quality, so there's a quality project base in the foundation that's funded from the foundation. There are quality records, but no results, so no results. There is a description of what will be done on this project, but what has not been achieved. Did the project then result in some new project, some new results that were no good for us. There's no such thing as that. That's what we need to be transparent about, to know what we got with it. We have "n" names there, always look at the base of how many of the same names you have listed in how many lines the leaders were. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89268	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89269	Thank you very much. Short. It's a little time for me to answer to you. First, as regards amendments to the constructive proposals of the opposition, this party accepts. Those amendments that are therefore well explained, which are of quality, you can't say that so far have not been accepted. It's a small percentage, but it's a sign to you that these others weren't quality, if they were quality, they'd be accepted. Secondly, as far as the results are concerned, so these projects that you are talking about are funded through the Croatian Foundation for Science. You must have little experience and knowledge of how the effects of the projects are analysed. So the scientific results of the projects are read through the scientific reports of each individual project, so it's not the work of the Foundation. You understand? That's how I explain it. There's a report for you with scientific results whether it's not a patent, whether it's every single project. So there is a need to read scientific reports to see the impact of each individual project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89270	Thank you very much. No more replicas, and you're free. And where did you see Mr. Pavic's breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89271	Dear President, Article 238. This was actually underestimating and insulting the MPs. You think I don't know where to find it? I just suggested and suggested that it be on the same base briefly written what, how and why. It's just that, nothing else, it's more transparent, not that I need to surf for six days to get some results. That's what this is about, not that I don't know, but that we can't get to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89272	And I'd rather sell that Rules of Procedure if I didn't see him again. You have a warning. It was a replica. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89273	Article 238 also applies. Representative Bedekovic deeply insulted all other MPs by saying that more than 500 amendments submitted are unquality, I do not know what the criteria of her judgment are. Does he consider the opposition amendments in terms of the increase in personal disability, the increase in funds for personal assistants, are these also non-quality amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Radosevic, we cannot have two criteria. Do you understand me? We can't, otherwise I'd have to give everyone half of you a heads-up about the heat of speech. Mrs. Bedekovic didn't insult anyone and I'll give you a warning, and I know you had a need to say it, to say it. But, please, I think we're about to end. Mr. Shimičević, please. Mr. Simičević in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89275	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague of Dalia Oreshkovic coming behind me, so I have to be careful what I say here. I just want to say that my greatest title is being a Christian, which I believe in God, which is my lord, and that's how I'm going to behave. So everything you've said is forgiven. I believe that this law that we had on the agenda here today that in his intention he answered those questions that should have been answered, that by the second reading, probably the minister would have some more things to do. But surely the goal of all of us here is to enable young people to stay here in Croatia, to have the state as their support and to achieve their scientific goals, and thus to contribute to the wealth of the country in which they live. Again, I want to repeat that we are experiencing this law in good faith and that I simply do not question the transparency, honesty and good intentions of the people who work in this foundation. And I believe that after a year, two or maybe more we will see that this law will actually justify its existence. So the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89276	Thank you, too. And in the end, the Center and Voice Representatives Club will share their time as they decide. Mrs. Puljak and Mrs. Oreshkovic, with the idea that Mrs. Oreshkovic is now the first to arrive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89277	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, so there is one causal link between the state of science in the Republic of Croatia today and the very fact that HDZ is currently in power and that there is such a good rating that today during the debate the HDZ called for. This phenomenon and this causal relationship describes a scientific term, an official scientific term, and it is called the theoretical paradigm of the growth of permanent permeability. And that's all you need to know about both science and HDZ and the state as such. Now that we're talking about construction and the amendment, there are 500 amendments that can be rejected in one day because HDZ doesn't evaluate them with quality and constructive I'm going to give a constructive proposal here to the present minister so that the opposition won't be in a situation where the pride of the amendment that the ruling won't adopt. Dear Ministers, if you really have good intentions, if you really want this law to be transparent and quality and to advance procedures, then I ask you to carefully comb the internal acts from the existing Science Foundation, so that you can analyse which internal Science Foundation has, that their structure, partial work and powers are defined in the law itself, that you install provisions on conflict of interest and how it will be controlled and supervised. It is also that you do not define the possibility of an appeal for a possible control in a way that is done by some commission which is then appointed by the council, rather than by some kind of external control. So these would be minimal, minimal procedures, they really require you to write down yourself a whole series of provisions that don't exist at the moment in the draft of the law itself. Here I volunteer to make myself available to you if you really want to put this institution on its feet the way I'm supposed to help you do. Next, my colleagues, Puljak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89278	Thank you very much, how nice it is to listen to such a peaceable tone. Mrs. Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89279	Here's a thank you. Here I have failed to come to this debate before and say a few comments about this law and the main remarks of the great part here and the scientists who have so far participated in the work of this foundation or used the funds of this foundation and in some way have been familiar with its work, and this is as I have been saying long ago in the discussion of the Committee of Sciences, the main observation is actually putting this foundation under the patronate now of the Ministry. What do we even want from science, what kind of science and higher education do we want? So we want it in an open international system that will be rationally managed by independent, independent elected leaders, while maintaining accountability-based autonomy. What we seek is a system with competitive criteria, evaluations based on international visibility, a system with fully integrated universities, with programme funding based on measurable performance indicators. So far, the foundation has actually been one part of the system that has actually worked here and according to the world rules i.e. They conducted international evaluations of projects and scientists.../incomprehensible/... thus ranking, sharing projects, carefully monitoring money spending, monitoring project implementation and measuring the results of projects is through published works and it does not matter who manages this trust. So, these amendments to the law change one tiny and irrelevant detail, which is that the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be transferred to the Ministry of Science, and thus the foundation loses actually the elements of independence and elements of the foundation in the end here becomes a body, some simple body for the transfer of money from the ministry's budget. So the projects have been, the ministry has already shared projects several times since '96. until 2002, from '02. Until '06. etc., however, the foundation was then established whether, at the time of the professor and Kraljević as minister and work on the assignment of the projects has really improved through the international review and regular monitoring of whether or not the financing of the projects is necessary, so there is no need to place these successful institutions under the Ministry, here. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89280	Thank you. Mr. Pavic in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89281	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, has proven the same thing again today. When we draw attention to what we can fix, which could be better, then we come across resistance. We didn't criticise what was wrong, we didn't even criticise what was very bad, we turned our attention, politely and culturally it's not good, we think it might be better. And we've made a proposal to make it better, and there's going to be an amendment even though the law is small, there's only a few pages, but there's going to be an amendment to try to fix it in the amendments. And when someone tells me that our amendments and our discussions weren't constructive, then I will direct all of you here who are present isn't much of you, here's the little debate we had in the first version of the Law on Reconstruction after the earthquake. When I spoke to the minister from this booth, the ministers for one form should hand over 86 documents and that law is inadmissible. Who did what? Has anyone heard anything? Nothing. After a year, it was realized that the law was really inconclusive. And what about after that? New law with some new holes again? So today, we have warned again on good faith that it would be good to increase transparency. We know Mrs. Bedekovic where we should look for data on scientific projects. However, is the problem in this database that writes the project to put a link in, well then I'm going to ask you to explain to me, is the problem there in that base put links on scientific papers and where it says so. Is that a problem? So to see in a simple way how to get that data, let's see what were the tasks of these projects. Is that a problem? If we have dozens of data inside, we can also put 11 data. However, some work cannot be done at all. I was preparing for a debate that, unfortunately, I didn't have time for this law today, and then I studied it all together. And I bet a few people knew how many records there were in that database, and now let me ask you what data is on that database so you don't know either. I bet. And why did we do that? What's with the analysis? So we can point to problems. And I told the Ministers, the base minister is great, but just put another link to those scientific papers, on the results. That's not a problem, that's another two, three, five fields in the base that we're going to have just a click afterwards and we're going to get those results. And yet if we can still see after that and what new projects are actually these scientific works afterwards, we will be happy and overjoyed. It's in everyone's interest, it's in the public interest. The money's being spent on the budget, and you put the money in the budget, and I gave it up, and I'm interested in that. And I'm not just interested in scientific papers, I'm being ingested even if this isn't about this topic. I'm interested in other works of the type of graduate work, the type of final work after three years of schooling in college, and I'm interested in seeing what our young people write, which they find interesting. I'm IT, and I follow those things. Unfortunately, I'm also following things that are happening on the EFOS, so I'm not too happy. So here's the minister of my suggestion, my suggestion to make about that base, to make about that base, to make a little reengineering, add a few more fields in which we will have links to scientific works and to the results of these works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89282	You, too. And now it is up to Mrs Sanja Radolovic to represent the final views on this bill, the SDP's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89283	I thank you today, I hope for the last time. You know, it's very interesting to me that I have to say a much nicer, more constructive and more complex discussion on the Assembly Education Committee than we do today in this assembly. We had such a recent report of the very foundation on the table and at the debate of the Assembly Committee on Education and we all came to the same conclusions there. It's visible from the record itself. We all agreed that the foundation should meet as urgently as possible the audit recommendation, develop a strategic plan, that this should, of course, be put into account and that this should be supervised by the Assembly Committee as before. This is visible from the record. That this reciprocity must be reversed and the funds should be, therefore, 85% of European funds, 15% of the state budget, leaving these multimillion amounts for something else that cannot be financed from EU funds. We have all agreed on this issue that I have stated in detail today that as soon as possible the salaries of assistants and young researchers need to be resolved. We all agreed, so we need to look for funds. Even counterpart Pavic from HDZ suggested to the board that scholarships should be addressed from the European Social Fund, which I really agree with. However, here we say today from the opposition's ranks, in front of the SDP, that we are really willing to support this legislative proposal because we believe that we are going in the right direction, to sort of regulate the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science. And I hope that although you have refused five hundred opposition amendments, that when we make amendments that will really be minor because this is really one small law and I repeat think it's not even good that the law is so minimal, that it should be essentially much more comprehensive because we're really going to have to have a lot of sublegal acts and regulations that we're going to have to regulate all these activities within the work of the foundation itself. I really hope that you will take into account the second reading, means primarily that work surveillance remains the Croatian Assembly and Assembly Committee on Education, such as the situation in the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which is completely normal and constructive. I hope you'll consider what I've made more clear about what young researchers really are, whether they're thinking about PhDs assistants and after doctorate on who. The Board of Appeals also thinks it is not normal for his term to last for 4 years and for all other bodies within foundation 5. I think you should also regulate that. And I repeat from this somewhat less fundamental, implementing changes I really think that this law would meet at least some of its purpose, and of course, as in our country, the case will be necessary then to regulate a number of other things by sublegal regulations. And what we have repeatedly mentioned here today, I have also participated in several projects of the Croatian Foundation for Science. I can say that there's really nothing wrong with the control, the verification of the costs incurred. However, when the project proposals themselves are evaluated, we are really confused. The criteria should be clearer. I also participate in several other HOURAISON projects and scientific projects from other funding lines, and there you really have some clear evaluation criteria. And I think that's where the Science Foundation should be made, that we all know, all scientists, all researchers, all institutions, how each project proposal has been evaluated and ultimately evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89284	Thank you, too. And now, finally, the Minister of Science and Education, Mr. Radovan Fuchs, will have his final discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89285	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be very brief. Thank you all for this, be careful if there is no replica, it will be even better, but thank you all for the discussion and constructive and less constructive suggestions. We've heard a lot of things that have something to do with it and maybe from our position it's not too logical and acceptable. This bill has one or two articles more than the previous article, the previous law. So far, it's been under the law, and this one wasn't obviously too big of a problem. Oversight of the agency has so far been carried out by three ministries, this proposal has brought it down to one, but we can also talk about it if it is too much of a problem. So, consent to the statutes of the Ministry of Science, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Finance through budget.../incomprehensible/... of finance. All right, it was thought that this proposal would simplify things and speed up the procedure. Obviously we thought well, and it turns out that the interpretation in the second segment is nowhere to say that international or foreign scientists cannot participate in the evaluation of projects. The old law says we must, in this case we introduce a category of young researchers, a doctorate, so I'm not sure if these projects should necessarily be sent to an external international evaluation, that's one thing. Others cannot be prescribed 100% of the procedures if we also give EU funds to the trust authority because these procedures differ from the source of funding of a particular fund, but if the idea is to return the matter of funding from funds back to the ministry which is, of course, possible then we do not need, of course, to change the existing procedure that is prescribed under the instruments of the trust itself. Even now, it has never been prescribed in the very law under which the foundation worked. What may yet have to be noted, that, of course, transparency and this visibility of certain projects is possible and now only so that I can draw attention to you at Ruđer Boskovic's database where, with each project financed from the Foundation, the link to all works and results that have come from such scientific projects and we will, of course, refresh that base even further because we intend to concentrate all national tools in the heart, in the university's accounting centre to better put in the public light all that is related to science and higher education, so that one click as the esteemed representative said can result. As for receiving scientific recruits, this is one example of inconsistency where neither the RES nor the trade unions were able to act on receipts from, scientific recruits or PhDs financed by trust projects compared to those financed from other sources. As far as the Foundation's board of directors and chairman of the Foundation's board of directors have so far had final authority in the decision-making on project allocations. In this case, this legal change is being waste because the foundation is harmonized as I have said with other regulations, and in this case, de facto, that authority is being transferred to the director of the foundation, rather than to the people who had such, in fact, the mechanism and the power of decision, without being employed by the foundation itself. So, no one had any momentum to draw money, no money laundering was exactly the opposite, it was the intensity that as much and as best as possible the work of the foundation, the speed of decision-making of the projects but only on the basis of competitive and competition in the quality of the proposed, proposed research. As I said, we can't set a unique selection criterion just by putting together and adding to the foundation exactly this one segment that she hasn't had so far, and that's those over half a billion kunas that are just meant for research that should result in new patent or technological solutions, so for a part of the applied research that has certainly been neglected so far in terms of funding by the foundation. What still needs to be noted, I along with the director of the Science Administration listened carefully to the debate, there are several good suggestions and be without worry, every good, useful suggestion will be carefully elaborated, looked at and networked. And if I may allow myself this, that freedom to say that I think I'm one of the first ministers of many years ago who just adopted one amendment of opposition and then I guess after that we started talking differently and when they asked me why, then I said because we were wrong. So, I have no problem accepting criticism, I have no problem accepting a mistake but I have a problem discussing something that someone doesn't know, someone doesn't have a complete picture but takes it as a right to talk without seeing reality, but actually let's just say he's trying to say so. Everything you've said, everything that's constructive, we'll take a close look at it, be careful and we'll come up in another reading with a text that's if it's a problem of the program or what we said, so the program it's going to bring to research the foundation. It is no problem to bring and accept the Parliament, but it would be logical that this programme brought by the Assembly and which foundation points to the Parliament's opinion that the ministry responsible for the conduct of some policy and direction of research in certain segments. We're a small country, we have a researcher and a scientist as many as we have. We can't spread all the money all over the place. We have to have all segments of science, but at some point someone will probably tell us what our priorities are whether it's IT technology, whether it's a biomedical area, and whether it's supposed to boost funding in that segment, which doesn't mean that someone will ignore any other area of science and don't give God social or humanistic. But in the end, allow me one note at the end before I finish. The people of the Management Board of the Foundation are troubled. I don't think it's as good as it is and it's not fair, especially when Professor Vikiæ Topic... With 118 scientific papers from 1975, I think it's still some international recognition of a scientist unlike some with 12 papers and 57 quotes that are basic and main critics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89286	But you won't get away so easily. Yes, and otherwise such documents, which are sublegal acts, used to be a practice for committees to make decisions about it, so you see for yourself. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89287	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers are not the key to whether this law has two more articles compared to the previous one, but whether this law has improved the institution's internal design. I don't think so, and it had to be done much more. Now, since I have very little time, I'm going to suggest something. Since you said that not all criteria can be defined in the law because there are several segments that are different from each other compared to the allocation of funds. It's clear to me, and it's acceptable to me. However, what you can put into the law, you can put on who will define the criteria, when these criteria must be made public and where and who will control whether a particular project is in the manner in which it is valued and how it has been allocated, whether someone has correctly applied the criteria when making a decision on the allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89288	Thank you. Here's your answer. Rejoiced Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89289	Thank you. As far as I understand it, you'd like those procedures that are now evaluation and evaluation procedures to be translated into a single part of the law. We can think about it, but I think by now, as far as the evaluation process itself is concerned, it's been a pretty good thing, but now we're going to have a debate, and that's not the point. I can't even assume.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89290	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89291	Dear Minister, I wanted to reiterate this remark and agree with my colleague Radolovic about putting the foundation under the Ministry of Science. It might be better to leave this as it has been defined so far that the supervision itself at the Croatian Parliament and the Committee, but I actually wanted to ask then you said here just before we introduced young researchers, then international evaluation of projects, so it is not necessary for their projects of young researchers to be evaluated internationally. Then how did you imagine these young people's projects would be evaluated?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89292	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89293	I didn't say it couldn't be applied, I just said that it might not be necessary for us to have legislation in every project to go to international evaluation. It was the only comment, but I didn't say it wasn't exclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89294	Thank you. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89295	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe this law will improve the work of the foundation and certainly do not think it will question its independence. On the contrary, it will improve the operation of the foundation itself and dynamic the withdrawal of funds from different funds. Of course, this is the first reading. There is a possibility of improvement to second reading, and I believe this law will improve further. For example, this part of your final presentation where you were talking about the possibility of expanding the body of surveillance might not be bad, so other than the Ministry of Science to expand the body of supervision and to the Ministry of Finance because the foundation is still a budgetary user. I understand that colleagues have indeed well-intentioned that the supervisory authority, the supervision of the work of the foundation, is also being carried out by the parliamentary board. I'm not sure that the Assembly Committee can be the Supervisory Body of the Science Foundation, nor that even one Assembly board can be the supervisory body of any, therefore, institution of this type. But extend to the Ministry of Finance certainly yes. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89296	Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89297	Well, look, I also think that the Assembly Committee may not be the most vulnerable body to oversee the work itself or the foundation of project implementation and the like. I think it's a technical and operational business that should still be left professionally, but everything else, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89298	But sooner or later, we have to be competent to these unfortunate committees, I think who meet so often. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89299	Dear Ministers, I agree almost entirely with your final presentation, especially with the part where you agree that you should extend the base.../incomprehensible/... proposal and thank you for that. I have another proposal also related to the portal HRZZ.hr on which it is detailed, really detailed all procedures are described. I think it would be good if these procedures were actually prescribed in a way that you, as a minister, would leave it with some decision, and then they were implemented in the HRZZ. Why? Therefore, if there is a decision by the minister, then these decisions must be strictly followed by the procedures prescribed there. In fact, detailed procedures, business processes for every step that happens in the foundation, and I think it would be good to make it kind of stricter, to be 100% sure that it will be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89300	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89301	And one more thing I wanted to draw your attention to, if there's no link, then we need to go to.../incomprehensible/... we need to go to.../incomprehensible/... we need to go to n, to n base to get We need to refer to ourselves to get some data. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89302	Mr. Pavić, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89303	Here, thank you very much, 650 million kuna is about to be secured from, within the NPO precisely for the digitization of higher education and science, so what you've just said is, of course, one of the possibilities of these projects that will unite I said centrally, at one point, in one central place all the data that we know how many students in the Republic of Croatia, that we don't have a ministry with 60,000 students at the University of Zagreb, and the rector with 75,000 and then we don't know where the 15,000 were executed. So we need to put it all together, turn it around and make a system of higher education and science the way we want it to be. This is, of course, not only solved by this law, it is dealt with by a whole series of other laws that are all set in the package and are part of the NPO to withdraw funds from the EU funds among other things [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] One of the articles in the proposal for a new Law on Science and Higher Education is that all PhDs, all masters, all graduate papers will be published 30 days before the defence on the portals [[Thank you very much.]] universities and libraries. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89304	You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the terms, and they'll probably get it on Friday, tomorrow. Last item of the agenda: - Selection, appointments, resolution Please ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administration of the Affairs of Mrs. Nada Murganic to explain the proposal for decisions and thank the chairman of the Committee in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89307	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs at the session on 27 January have made several proposals for decisions. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Defence Committee, Mr Vinko Grgić, is hereby dismissed and Arsen Bauk is elected as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee, Dr. Sinisa Hajdas Doncic, and Vinko Grgic is elected as a member of the Tourism Committee. Proposal for a Decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sports of the Croatian Parliament, Luka Brčić is elected to be a member of the Committee because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Dario Zurovec is elected as a member of the Committee. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a Vice-President, the election and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Board is elected Damir Bajs, but Gary Cappelli is elected as a member of the board. On 4 January, a member of the board stopped acting on behalf of Vinko Zulim for the termination of the parliamentary term. Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee and ending the term of office of the President and members of the Committee of Awards to Vlad Nazor. So the chairman of the board is named academicist Zvonko Kusic, for members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee are called Branka Cvitkovic, Prof. Helena Sablic Tomic, academician Frano Parać, Branko Schmidt, Prof. Tomislav Buntak, doc. Ivana Bakal, Leonard Jakovina and Maja Fural Cimmerman. Decisions will be published in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-27-0.u89308	But first I have to open the debate, close the debate, thank you very much, we'll vote for the conditions to be met tomorrow. And tomorrow I'll meet you at 9:30. The point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species in first reading. Thank you very much, and there's a 12 o'clock vote, thank you very much, and don't continue the controversy at home. Session interrupted at 17.08 p.m.
