ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u102768	Ladies and gentlemen. Today's Croatian powermakers, as the current and former politicians and key economic factors will say, remind French Queen Maria Antoinette and her statement "If there is no bread, let the people eat cakes". It is this level of haughtiness that Croatian citizens experience daily. The Croatian public is daily confronted with information about non-secretary abuses, could be said to be completely transparent, simply all relevant social segments are blocked and we can freely say that Croatia is under its own occupation and blockade. A few days ago, the Net.hr portal published a case of gas procurement by HEP where it was detailed that HEP is under the leadership of a personal friend, Andrej Plenkovic, a certain Frane Barbaric, a person who was a member of HEP Management and during Ivo Sanader 2021. concluded a harmful contract with the PPD company, while HEP paid 51 million kuna more than it could result from the previous tender that Barbaric, without any explanation, annulled in order to re-negotiate the contract with the PPD seven days after the conclusion of the contract to the damage to HEP in the payment dynamics segment. In fact, HEP accepted the new contractual provision that opposed the tender criteria in the place of monthly payment dynamics to pay the PPD the total contract amount of 737 million kuna and this advance. It should not be interpreted that money has its own price and that this is by no means a normal business relationship. This is where you ask who the PPD is? Company 2011 Had 53 million kuna income, 2021. It had an income of 20 billion and 900 million kuna. Everyone in their right mind is asking themselves how is that possible? The answer is possible if your state system suits you. 2011 The PPD was one of the companies on the market, but in 2012, when it starts its shooting rise, the company gets a protector in the person Ivan Vrdoljak who then became Minister of Economy. From the PPD at that time, gas starts to buy companies that are the control of the state of HEP Gas, Petrochemy, etc. Meanwhile, the PPD has a protector in the person Andrej Plenkovic, who recommends that the PPD recommends different international associations to defamation of our European partners because we see the model of the company in the already described business. To be clear, I am pleased with every success of every Croatian company and every Croatian individual, but the success of ladies and gentlemen must be based on knowledge and diligence, not on convenience. And I want to determine from this point of view this term is a better term for thieving because it makes it possible for someone to give him extraordinary opportunities in order to make a greater profit or not to benefit from it because if you have not delivered the goods, you will deliver it in 12 months, and you have already charged it, of course it has been convenient for you. So, you haven't delivered the goods you resell yet, and you can already use that profit. However, all Croatian citizens must be aware that when HEP favors PPD, when the CNB favors banks, when HAKOM favors HT, when pension funds favor Tedeschi's Atlantic, all the benefits go out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, and because of this advantage or unconscious business we pay more expensive diesel than the Austrian, we pay three times the interest than the German, and the worse payment power only Bulgarians have because those 51 million kunas paid by Plenkovic's friend Barbaric to PPD should be in the state budget. This speech of mine would not only be five minutes, but it would take a minimum of five hours if I could list all the irregularities that touch me every day, which the Croatian citizens tell me and send me evidence that officials at all levels in the state are cold-bloodedly breaking laws and absolutely robbing Croatian property. As we know, it is possible because the DORH that should prevent corruption is blocked by the government of Andrej Plenkovic and all governments in the last 20 years, and the judiciary is also dysfunctional and to a good extent corrupt. The person I quoted at the beginning of my presentation, Maria Antoinette, ended up on the guillotine. Thank God the guillotines are no longer used today. But what will certainly have to be implemented is the decorum of Croatian society, which will say the establishment of a functional rule of law. And then the Vrdoljacs, Plenkovici and Barbarici will have to pay their bills, and then Croatia will be arranged and the Croatian man will be able to live decently in it. And only for the end to add and in Croatia will then be rewarded work... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u102769	Thank you. But the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament should also be respected. Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, the honourable representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u102798	Thank you. Dear Members, in his presentation yesterday, Bulj began an extremely important topic for which I hold that all of us MPs are obliged to comment publicly and disclose to the Croatian public the last attempts to inflict direct damage on municipalities and cities in the process of determining the infrastructure operator and the level of compensation for the straight way before HAKOM, so to the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. At present, an e-debate on the subject of the ‘Adjustment and Completion of the Regulation on the Right Path and Refunds’ has been published on HACOM's pages, and the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Regulations on Certificates and Refunds would result in the result that, instead of the compensation that municipalities and cities now receive at the annual level, they would receive a fee that is even three times smaller and at the level of RH JLS would receive up to 150 million kuna a year. Given that this is exclusively about favouring infrastructure operators who have achieved the greatest profit at the time of the pandemic, I believe it is important to actively engage in the protection of the rights of municipalities and cities, and indirectly our citizens. It is unacceptable and legally unfounded is the HACOM initiative which seeks to extend the amendments and amendments to the Certificate and Right Road Compensation Regulation in such a way that the reduced amount of 2.40 kuna per metre of square fee is paid not only for public roads, i.e. public, county and local roads but also for non-classified roads owned by JLS and for the following reasons, so the unclassified roads are not public roads but fall within the municipal infrastructure of each JLS which is explicitly mentioned in Article. Article 59 Paragraphs 1 and 1 respectively. The Law on the Communal Economy. Accordingly, the provisions of the Road Act do not apply to unclassified roads because they apply only to public roads, so highways, state roads, county roads and local roads. Public roads are financed and maintained from the state budget and unclassified roads from the JLS budget. Therefore, the compensation laid down in the Law on Roads or according to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of compensation for the establishment of the right of service and the right of citizens on a public road of 2.40 kuna over a metre square can only apply to public roads. I repeat, if this initiative were to pass and the compensation would be reduced for the right path and for the unclassified road from 8 kuna to 2.40, it would be estimated that JLS would lose close to 150 million kuna per year at the state level. When amending the rules in the Republic of Croatia, it is mandatory to make and publicly publish the financial impact of the proposed amendments when adopting new rules which HACOM has also not done. In addition to the amendments to the HACOM Regulation, no financial analysis of the effects of the amendments to the Regulation has been put in place since it could then be made public to see the amount of amendments to the Regulation affecting the rights of damaged persons and, in this case, the rights of 556 JLS. HACOM shall be obliged to publish in public for each JLS or real estate manager, in so far as they will be reduced to a fixed fee. This is about guessing the operator of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. provides extra profit on the burden of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who use the services of the owner and the real estate manager. Operator Hrvatski Telekom d.d. will have a lower cost of nearly 100 million kuna that will continue to charge the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It would be logical for HACOM to provide, in particular, a reasoned argument on the financial and legal analysis for such a drastic reduction of compensation to the damages of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and units of local self-government. Managers, property owners are witnessing that HAKOM is making an extraordinary effort to defend the interests of the operator, specifically Croatian Telecom, by the way, which is neither Croatian in a way that does not propose, among other things, the criminal sanctioning of operators in obvious non-compliance with the executive and powerful solutions of HAKOM. I believe that we are right to ask the question of whose interests it is, then, that's to protect HACOM's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u102889	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u102890	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is a very important day at least for us who work in health care and hopefully for all of you. It's International Sisterhood Day. Every year around the world on May 12th, the International Sisterhood Day is marked as a memory of Florence Nightingale's birth on the beginning of the modern sisterhood. With her approach and training of nurses, she became recognizable by providing health care to soldiers during the Crimea War. At the beginning of the Crimea War, the death of soldiers was about 50%, but Florence managed to improve health opportunities in the military through her organisational work and reduced mortality to only 2%. The celebration of this day has been organised since 1974 and it has been organised by the International Council of Medical Sisters, an association that celebrates 120 years this year, and brings together more than 130 national associations, including the Republic of Croatia. Each year, the International Council of Nurses brings a theme that guides the marking. This year's topic is sisterhood, a voice that leads, investment in the sisterhood and respecting the right to achieve health for all. The desire is to focus attention on the need to protect, provide support and highlight the importance of investing in the sister’s profession, which would strengthen health systems as a whole. Nurses are an important and inescapable link in the healthcare chain. Since the start of the covid-19 disease pandemic, numerous nurses and medical technicians around the world have shown enormous efforts in everyday work and providing quality care for all patients. At the first level of defense of the world's population from the coronary virus, they proved that the sister's profession helped to suppress the waves of the pandemic. At the time of the pandemic, their innovation, empathy, resourcefulness, and sacrifice take place. The International Sisterhood Day is not marked by the covida-19 pandemic, but by all the positive aspects that nurses have learned during the pandemic era, the knowledge they have collegiately shared with their colleagues, professional development and growth, and the care that has been given to patients. During the past pandemic period for their work, nurses and technicians around the world have experienced additional public praise, increasing the visibility and importance of their role in society. However, globally speaking, additional investments in the sisterhood are needed. For this very reason, the message is to invest in the sisterhood, because investment in human resources is the most important investment. By investing in the sisterhood, it is possible to restore, transform and strengthen the health systems themselves in order to achieve health justice. By investing in the sisterhood and respecting her rights, it is possible to make nurses stronger, more resilient, more willing as well as more content to face future challenges. The global sister labor force is estimated to be 27.8 million nurses and technicians worldwide while projections are missing 4.6 million nurses by 2030. The reason is the synergy of the existing staff shortage with the retirement of older sisters and the influence of the pandemic, and insufficient investments in the sisterhood. Unfortunately, as many as 90% of the said lack of nurses and technicians will be expressed in countries with low or low incomes. Generally known guidelines for future sisterhood development continue to focus on education, professionalism, a comprehensive approach to providing health care, community orientation, preventive action, teamwork, partnership on a multidisciplinary team whose members are members, and the application of systematic and logical problem-solving. The emphasis is on investing in global health that can be achieved through investment in quality education of nurses and ensuring appropriate working conditions to improve health results, and thus supported economic growth as the final results will be a healthier population. This will save millions of lives, children and adults worldwide, and ultimately ensure economic productivity and growth. Nurses and technicians are the key to achieving these goals of global health, and thank them for everything they do for our patients and the general population and dear nurses and technicians happy your day – Sisterhood Day!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103131	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, forgive the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative Ante Kujundzic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103132	Thank you, Chairman. Whoever isn't for us is against us or whoever's more aggressive turns out to be more convincing in this country. What and how the system in our country refers to those who created this country, to those who are silent about the Homeland War, holding their wounds for themselves, to those who have not become part of the political folklore and who are not part of any election headquarters. As the system applies to those who today try to live the same ideal that they had in the 1990s. We can see, for example, the man, officer of the third battle of the Fourth Guard brigade of Mr. Mislav Patrl. A man who also works in humanitarian work has restored more houses than the government in Banovina. He wasn't taking any pictures, he wasn't buzzing about himself, but he had roll calls. One of these occurred recently when in a daily newspaper, Mislav commented on a writer who wrote when a conscience appeal arises, when doctors give in to catalybans. So this true Croatian hero on his profile politely commented the following. In a country where 90% of Catholics editor-in-chief of the most read list insults that same faith on Sundays, a list that rarely anyone buys other than cafes, which is clearly not funded by sales. How to finance and from whom to fantasize and reason at the will of the Taliban. After this comment by Mislav Brigadier, a third-war officer was invited to a informed conversation at the police station. And I'm not pointing that finger at the police officers who were supposed to do what someone ordered them to do. The question I ask is, where is freedom of speech, where is the freedom to speak as a Christian, as a believer, to make my stand decent? Where am I or more specifically where is Mislav who does not die, who does not shut up, who does not belong to the system? In the context of values that a democratic Christian state has, and also in the context of a choice where there is no choice, in the context of a ruling majority in which most of the democratics are at least declared, in the context of the stamping of freedom of speech, in the context of the laws and services that we see with our eyes and all that we no longer have on paper. I'm going to paraphrase the Runic legend of Ivan Bitang. Croatia is a country from which a large number of people have left, and those who stayed have left the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103300	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative, Vesna Vucilović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103301	Thank you very much, dearly respected colleagues and colleagues. I will ask one question today, which is whether Croatia is a regulated rule of law. Can anyone in Croatia get away with criminal proceedings without a verdict. Unfortunately, this is possible in Croatia. The object's been dragging around the courts for 22 years, and then it's out of date. And I'm going to give you a few cases where that's exactly what happened. One's the case of the carlovska banka. However, it took 10 lawyers of judicial acrobatics, but the case confirms that in Croatia the rule of law has fallen asleep deeply. It is not the only case, there are others and then we do not have to wonder why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not trust the judiciary. That's why the answer is that. So in the process of malfeasance at the Karlovakia bank there was a delay, then a delay, and then all possible diseases of the defendants that lined up behind each other. And when more defendants are in the process, then not having one in the debate means a new delay. And so they managed to pull that object for 22 years. During the procedure, it was proven that members of the management of the Karlovačka banka as early as 1999 wrote off a debt of 13.4 million kuna to the company Zagreb tree d.o.o., although there was no legitimate business reason for such a thing. And yet the verdicts walked from county to high criminal court, the Supreme Court, and eventually it all ended up out of date. No money, no convictions, and the cost of this Kafkian procedure which includes the accounts of the four defendants will eventually be paid by taxpayers because they fall on the burden of a state which is, in all likelihood, the biggest culprit that these people are not in prison or which is equally important they have failed to prove their innocence. And for years, we've been following several lawsuits against former Prime Minister Sanader. And one case against him also went out of date. In 2009, HEP Dioki charged him with inciting the head of the RS-owned company's management to take advantage of his position and authority. The Supreme Court has found the criminal offence for which the defendants have been cleared of the charges of becoming obsolete prosecution. Then there's the case of a cottage that's also out of date. It's about the 1997 works that have already been forgotten. And there, the Supreme Court found that the criminal offence for which the defendants were cleared of charges had been brought up by antiquity of prosecution before the file came to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia because it had been more than 22 years since the crime took place. The budget will pay some less than 690,000 kuna of court costs to lawyers representing the defendants. Cases that have gone into obsolescence, which blame most of the known people in political life or those with them, unfortunately, are not missing. Tax bonds end up paying for it, so it's not even supposed to have money, it's just skilled lawyers. If there is a familiarity with some influential people in political life, it is most desirable. When in 10 years we are once again surprised by the defeating demographic data then let us all remember together these cases because precisely because of these privileged, privileged many have left Croatia and will never return again. The prime minister's projects, such as the one that came up in the 12th month, are the PR fog anyway, because in the meantime far more has moved the citizens of the Republic of Croatia than they have chosen Croatia and even for these famous 200,000 kunas. When nothing was done, they decided to create an illusion that something was done. That the rulings don't care, that they don't care, that's all we know for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103409	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ante Prkacin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here I am without someone great... And I'm willing to continue what I started yesterday, but it has to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem of fascism and anti-fascism is a dispute between us Croatians 80 years old and that it is a thing of folklore and I would no longer speak of it, but the unresolved issues have caused us problems especially in the Homeland War, even later when entering NATO, the EU, etc. and this is a permanent Croatian problem because he and the media spilled himself into the Croatian Parliament, and nowhere has he been so unskilled about the problem discussed as here. I tried to impose a new way of thinking last time, a new way of treating, so not to speak phrases and passwords and cheerleaders, but to speak truth and facts. I was talking very little about fascism for that reason. Fascism is simple evil and crime and over, but antifascism is incomparably more complex. In antifascism, you have from the greatest human values of honesty, knowledge and humanity to crimes that have overcome the crimes of fascists with their monsterism. So let's see where this Croatian antifascism is. So, I've asked two questions... I'm to comment on 9.9.'43. when in the headquarters of Broza English liaison officer William Bul Deakin was, why he did not inform Broz that soon the capitulation of the Italian army would follow, that Broz would set up his army to Italian garrisons and take this great weapon, why he was not allowed 40 thousand Yugoslavs to approach so-called. The People's Liberation Movement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also mentioned the 11th month of the same year of the Tehran Conference where officially Broz does not get the status of the Allied Army. But let's move on. Was Hitler equally fascist or national socialist on 23.8.1939 when his Minister Ribentrop was with Stalin's Minister... signed an agreement first on non-attacks, and then in secret friendship clauses that after 7 days Hitler would attack Poland, and 20 after that, even more difficult to make Stalin on the other hand an unprecedented murder and massacre in Poland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What changed the code, so then Hitler probably wasn't a fascist if Stalin worked with him. What happened 22.6.'41. When Hitler attacks the Soviet Union, are those two Hitlers? Hitler is the same thing as 22.6.'41. And '39. And in the first month of '33. when he became a German Chancellor. Let's move to Yugoslavia. When Hitler's Saltate attack on Yugoslavia on April 6th, why do Croatian anti-fascists not go to war but wait to get a warrant from Moscow 22.6. when the Soviet Union is under attack. I mentioned this and Draž Mihajlovic, so do you know that Broz and Draža spoke twice and agreed, Draža therefore set out to resist the German occupier, Draža was indeed an anti-fascist at one point. Do you know why the alliance broke between Draža and Broz? Because Draža told Broz I'm a general staff officer, I know what the rights of the occupiers are in the possessed space, for every dead German, they'll kill me 100 Serbs, for every wounded German, they'll kill me 50 Serbs. It was more expensive, Draži cared about the Serbs, and Brozu replied to kill them as much as possible to raise the people to the uprising and move on as it went. But to go back to that one, to this 9.9.In '43, why didn't they give him arms and why they didn't confess him? Because it was the same in '43, and after Hitler's Soldate chase Broz from and the People's Liberation Movement from Bihac, somewhere in the window area and Jablanica. When it is heard whether it is true or invented, it is not important that the Allies may land on the coast of the Adriatic, Broz sends their most trusted people, Milovan Gilas, Kvoč Popović and Vladimir Velebit in Zagreb, to agree with the German command to resist the allies together if they land here. It's gentlemen about a man who fought exclusively for his power. I'm really gonna have to in fragments a 10-fold detail by detail, but please have someone deny any, any of what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103723	And now, on behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent MPs, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103724	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. According to modern age standards, Croatian pension insurance of generation solidarity is one of the oldest in the world. It is not only old on the date of origin, but matured according to its structure, which also monitors the demographic structure of the Republic of Croatia as a residual and age-by-age population structure in most European states. Sometime back there, on May 14, 1922, when ducks were still swimming, Savam was born today, today's Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which begins its activity as the Central Insurance Office established by the Workers' Insurance Act. So we have not only celebrated 100 years since the birth of this institution, but also 100 years of continuous implementation of mandatory pension insurance in these areas. Just where the buildings of the pension and sisters of Esplanade appeared today on the tennis courts of the then rich and seen citizens of Zagreb in the twenties, the once bright and powerful buildings of the second half of the 20th century were when the payments greatly exceeded the expenditures, and they bear witness to our pension until today about the solidarity of society, about the passing of time, about human achievements and progress, but also about the earthquakes of real and human hands created like aggression, war, economic downfall and lack of insurance that created a poor old man from a residential and solid mountainous age which, however, the wind and modern prophets did not break. Yes, this vital old man in a lot of working times, few pensioners built his own seats, health homes, retirement homes, favorably credited the development of production plants, and was in the function of creating new jobs. A part of it today and our generations enjoy it. This vital old man has never, remember he never, saved for us but has collected contributions from workers and paid pensions to pensioners, and this is what he does today when the proportion of workers and pensioners is multiplely unfavourable, and the lack of funds of contributions to salaries is covered by funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the last 20 years, the children of our pension, compulsory pension funds and pension insurance companies have grown no more based on generation solidarity than on individual capitalised savings, and so far, our savings that guard and enlarge us, although most of those who retire today decide to be 100-year-olds from Mihanović Street are likely to end up in that old sailor's praise. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, each anniversary is also a look and look back, an inventory of one time, an opportunity for a summary of the experience of the good that needs to be kept, but also an opening of a view to what is waiting for tomorrow. What is the best thing HZMO has done to us for the past 100 years, but what leaves itself and all of us as a task for the next 100 years? Yes, all history and the future can be said in just one irreplaceable word, solidarity. Solidarity is a pillar of cohesion of every society, not just solidarity but solidarity between generations, young towards the old, working active towards those who have already done their share, healthy and powerful towards the sick and the weak in every advanced society, there are pulsars, space lighthouses that show the way of the wolf forward and create new values, but also in every society there is what keeps us all together, keeps us together and keeps us alive, this thing is called human solidarity. Lived for at least a hundred more years, HZMO lived for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103761	To appoint Mr. Cardinal Secretary of State Parolin, to role Mr. Cardinal of Archbishop Bozanic, High President of the Croatian Bishop's Conference of Archbishop Puljic, respected envoys of Prime Minister Obulen's Prime Minister, the exalted Apostolic Nunations of Mons. Lingua, honored gentlemen of the archbishops and bishops, respected MPs and MPs, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It is an exceptional honor and pleasure to welcome Croatian saint Leopold Mandic to the Secretary of State of the Holy See to the model Cardinal Pietr Parloin, once again welcome to HS. Croatian history is unimaginable without the role of the Catholic Church and Christianity that are deeply embedded in the essence of the Croatian people. [[Applause]] Over the centuries, our presence in these areas of the church and religion has been the guardians of not only religious but also Croatian, national and cultural identity. Pope Ivan VIII is June 7, 879. sent a letter to the then ruler of Croatia to Prince Branimir in which he recognised his authority over Croatia and sent blessing to the entire Croatian people. That historic date is the first time a de facto recognised medieval Croatian state. The day of Croatian diplomacy is also marked on the occasion of the event on June 7th. The centuries-long association between the Croatian people and the Holy Table has led to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign state. The decision on international recognition was made by the Holy See headed by Pope John Paul II on 13 January 1992, thus making a kind of precedent because the Holy See was among the first countries to recognise us, it was a message and an incentive to all who still had doubts about the recognition of Croatia. The Holy See during the Homeland War has truly witnessed the fate of the Croatian people, diplomatic efforts sought to do everything to prevent war in the former Yugoslavia through the international community. The prayers and words of John Paul II from 1991 at the time of the aggression on Croatia that what is happening in Croatia is not worthy of man, it is not worthy of Europe that awakened the conscience of the world public, and gave us hope that we are not forgotten and left to ourselves. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, in these 30 years since the establishment of bilateral relations Croatia has had the great honour and especially the pleasure of hosting the Holy Father four times, three times Croatia visited Pope John Paul II with whom the Croatian people feel special closeness and connection. Especially cut into our memory by his first pastoral march in 1994. while another quarter of Croatia was occupied. His words “Dear Croats Papa loves you, Papa embraces you and receives you, Papa blesses you” will forever be remembered. His second visit in 1998. It was marked by the declaration of the Blessed Cardinal Alojzi Stepinc, the bed of the Church in the Croats as he called it. The Blessed Cardinal Stepinac's life paid for not accepting the separation of the Catholic Church into the Croats from Rome and the Vatican. HS brought in 1992. The declaration of the condemnation of the political process and the verdict of Cardinal Alojzi Stepinc. The third march of St. John Paul II in Croatia in 2003 It was also his jubilee 100th trip, and after his death in 2005. HS brought the Bill of Gratitude to St. John Paul II. Pope Benedict XVI also had a special feeling for Croatia, in a pastoral visit in 2011. They strongly echoed his words and encouragement and support Croatia's entry into the EU. This year we also mark 25 years of ratification of three contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See. In addition to the signed fourth treaty, we regulated a wide range of areas from legal and economic issues to education, culture, caritative work and the care of Catholic believers. Thanks to these contracts and other religious communities with the state, they settled their relations. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have just gone through the world's joint efforts to recover from the pandemic crisis, and in Croatia, further earthquakes have taken place, Russia's brutal aggression to Ukraine. The sights we witness like those of Mariupoli question our notion of humanity and humanity based on the moral values of Christian civilization. HS adopted a Declaration on Ukraine condemning Russia's aggression on Ukrainian sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. We welcome the prayers and efforts of Holy Father Pope Francis in which I call for the preservation of peace in the world and the protection of human dignity and every life. Unfortunately, the situation is not good in our neighborhood, and there is an objective possibility for further destabilisation, so Croatia is taking great care of relations with BiH. We are particularly concerned about the position of Croats as one of the three constituent people whose survival in that country is at stake. We have talked about this for the last half hour, so we invite you and ask you by your moral authority to help final solutions guarantee the equality and equality of all three peoples. At the same time, we are grateful to the Holy See for the understanding and support it has provided for the Croats in BiH, throughout the difficult history of the Croatian people in BiH, the Catholic Church was and remained a porter of faith and hope. For centuries, priests and monks have carefully scolded, caring for the faith and well - being of our people by keeping them in their hearths. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, today's visit by Secretary of State Parolin is another confirmation of the excellent and friendly relations between our two states and the unbreakable ties between the Croatian people and the Catholic Church. I thank you for coming to the Croatian Parliament and I invite you and I ask you to contact us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103762	Dear President Mr. Gordan Jandroković, distinguished vice presidents, I am very grateful and happy and truly honored to be able to address you in this high home located in St. Mark's Square whose urban and architectural style is etched in deep symbolism. At the centre of this square where not only the most modern Croatian state institutions are located but also the centuries-old symbols of Croatian statehood that reflect its municipal rights, iura munitipalia stands the church. This church is the oldest building in the square. In time, other buildings that represent the headquarters of Croatian legislative, executive and constitutional judicial authorities, the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia were found near the church. Although physically separated from the church this building was built on purpose with a direct view of the church while fully respecting its external appearance. The construction of St. Mark's Square reflects at a symbolic level much deeper than the mere architectural urban development of all spontaneous features and the overall reality of the historical relations between the Croatian people and the Catholic Church. These aspects of St. Mark's Square faithfully reflect what was once in Croatian parts, and today is still in itself understandable in these relations. As you well know, the legal and diplomatic relations between the Croats and the Holy See have been historically established during the 7th century and since the arrival of the Croats into these areas. They have developed in different periods, in different contexts, and in territorial political contexts, so it is impossible to characterize or understand them from just one point of view. However, regardless of these evident historical and conceptual variables, it is possible to distinguish the constant characteristics of these relationships or their continuous course through the centuries even, even under different forms of totalitarianism. And these features are honesty, mutual commitment, understanding and functionality, but above all, and I would like to point out in this solemn occasion the 25th anniversary of the entry into force of the International Treaties between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, the association of Croats and Peter's Church. Different legal instruments such as contracts, agreements, legal and diplomatic communications, diplomatic relations and the like between Croats and the Holy See should be interpreted according to their scale, taking into account what their essence is and what they truly reflect, which are interlink and support. They are also an expression of the strong and true faith, the loyalty of the Croats to the Holy Table, which they could always count on as a source of support and the trust of the Holy See in the Croatian people. Regardless of the legal historical qualification and the necessary caution in interpretation, and particularly taking into account the fact that it was an act that occurred 11 centuries ago, the blessing that Pope Ivan VIII gave to Prince Branimir on 7 June 879, the whole of his people and his country, recognising his earthly authority over all of Croatia, has special weight and legal significance. This act was a decisive act to build the identity of Croats because it recognised the Croatian people as a independent and sovereign nation with its own government, with its own ruler among the European peoples from the end of the 9th century, but also as a Christian people loyal to the Roman high priest. At a time when written clues were extremely rare, the Pope sent to the Croatian prince not only a written legal act but also a letter with a strong message that had a long-term impact on the construction of Croatian identity. In Croatia, it is often and correctly heard that this act and the blessing of the pope represent the legally relevant recognition of Croats and introduces them into the context of the European peoples and Western civilizations based on Christianity. About half a century later, 925 and 928 C.E. Based on the act of Pope Ivan X, a unique church area will be established, covering all Croatia and Dalmatia under the jurisdiction of the Split bishop, an area that will later form an administrative region and which will later become the centre of Croatian territory. It is this region that will become not only an administrative area for Croatians but also their own spiritual, cultural, political and historical heritage that clearly defines Croatian identity, in other words the centre of Croatian statehood. Let us now return to the present, St. John Paul II. especially respected by the Croatian people and treated them with exceptional love and deep understanding. Perhaps as no one else this pope, Pope Poljak understood the heavy burden of the history of injustice and suffering that the Croats were exposed to as the Slavic people in their 100-year pursuit of their own state. He felt and shared the sufferings of this people, as well as his aspirations and goals, especially during the communist rule. Pope John Paul II. He recognized the perseverance and unwaveringness, and the model testimony of faith personified in Zagreb's archbishop Cardinal Alojzi Stepinac, who was in 1998. During the pastoral attack of the Republic of Croatia in Marija Bistrica, he declared the Blaze and the Martyr. This strengthened Pope Pia XII’s decision. of 1953 in which Alojsija Stepinca, in the difficult and extraordinary times of persecution while as an archbishop, witnessed the faith of the house arrest in Krasic, named the cardinal. Holy John Paul II. He had immense respect for the 1000-year commitment of the Croats to Christianity, the Pope and the Holy See, which was also evident in numerous diplomatic acts and relations, but also in the fact that the Croatian people in key and breaking moments always had the support in the church and its clergy. When in the early 1990s he pictured the possibility of creating an independent Croatian state, a country that would be the real state of the Croatian people, John Paul II. As the Pope and the Supreme Authority of the Holy See, he strongly advocated the goal legally and diplomaticly in Croatia and in the international community. It is particularly important to point out that he did this uncompromisingly and without hesitation because of his firm belief in the justice of this goal and his justification in international public law, and his belief that the Croatian people have the right to self-determination and independence. Clearly seeing and accurately interpreting the signs of time for all of Europe during that period, including for the Croatian people and having a determined response to them, Pope John Paul II. it has encouraged more intensive legal and diplomatic action and communication in the international community both before and during the creation of the modern Croatian state, especially at the time of its declaration of independence and independence, which culminated in January 13, 1992. 30 years ago. when the Holy See formally recognised the Republic of Croatia and thus confirmed the legality and legitimacy of the modern Croatian state. John Paul II. He did so with honesty and dedication without hidden measures, intent, and the Holy See was among the first international rights entities to recognise Croatia. The recognition of the Republic of Croatia by the Holy See will remain remembered as a legal act that gave the Apostolic chair strong and determined support for the legality and legitimacy of the Croatian state in front of the international community. For the Republic of Croatia and for the Holy See this act is still a sign of strong faith, trust, closeness, commitment, mutual support, and this is St John Paul II. confirmed during his three pastoral campaigns of the Republic of Croatia each of which was deeply significant legally and spiritually at its historic moment. First time in the Homeland War of '94. the year, then in 1998 for the declaration of Cardinal Alojzi Stepinc blessed and for the last time in the beginning of the 21st century 2003 when the young Croatian state was already more mature. It is certainly signifying that St. John Paul II decided to visit his beloved Croatian people on the occasion of his 100th pastoral campaign outside Italy. In the context of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, the special place is the mutual legal relations primarily because each of these aspects is expressed in the legal form in these relations. During 1996, three contracts on legal issues were signed, on cooperation in the field of education and culture, on the care of Catholic believers, members of the Armed Forces and the regular services of the Republic of Croatia, and these contracts came into force in early '97. Exactly a quarter of a century ago, and then a year later in 1998 another contract on economic issues was signed. At the very beginning, the Treaty on Legal Affairs stipulates that the State and the Catholic Church are independent and independent each in their order. It is also prescribed that both parties commit themselves in mutual relations to fully respect this principle in the context of caring for the entire spiritual and material development of man and for promoting the common good. In this respect, contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See fully respect the sending of the Catholic Church as well as the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia. Since both sides strive to promote human dignity, social justice, spiritual and material improvement in man and the common good. The benefits of these efforts are in fact all members of Croatian society regardless of their national, ethnic, religious or other identity or political orientation. Although they are independent and conceptually separate, these contracts set the framework for a true partnership between the state and the church, their mutual support, respect, closeness, and the interconnection between their objectives and policies for which the purpose is always human. Contracts concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See should not be taken and appreciated by other religious communities. On the contrary, they can ultimately serve as an example to members of other religious communities, for example, to accept an identical model and criteria for the financing of religious sciences in state schools, then to analogize the concept of a canonical mandate in the Catholic Church. In order to recognise in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the civil effects of life communities governed by the State Family Law and concluded under the rules of the religious community and in front of its priest for the rules of return of property seized during totalitarian regimes, etc. The contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See differ from these analogue arrangements at the state-law level only because they have the status of international law, not because of legal content. And since the Republic of Croatia is a state in which citizens are mostly declared to Catholics the normative scope of the contract with the Holy See in relation to the entities concerned and the number of legal issues covered will be broader, but not because these contracts introduce different legal and relevant issues. In short, any agreement between the two entities of international law is an instrument for preventing conflict and avoiding the law of arbitration or even worse the law of force. From the beginning of its existence until today, the agreements made by the Holy See with the countries have been a permanent endeavor to adapt to social change and religious reality. Such adjustments are worth defending human rights, especially religious freedoms. Even in the modern state contexts of secularized or unsecularized societies. It would be wrong to think that in the past agreements only came together because some countries were Christian. The Holy See has always tried to negotiate with rulers and governments, including non - Catholic and non - Christian, on specific conditions of the life of the church. Even during the centuries-long permanent changes in European history, for example during church separation and during the reformation of the Holy See, it sought to establish the best possible relations with the civil authorities of the countries, whether or not it was Catholic countries. So today, as in the past, agreements between the Holy See and the State have proved useful for regulating the life of the Church and ensuring its independence despite the wishes of the rulers and governments to interfere in the life and organisation of the Catholic Church. Even in the context of societies that are deeply associated with Catholicism, it has proved necessary to establish rules to prevent the temptations of civil authorities to interfere in the affairs of the Church and, of course, vice versa. However, agreements are also useful because of the possibility of co-ordinating and facilitating the active participation of the Holy See and the Church in the construction of a human society of fair and solidarity according to this bright perspective drawn in the pastoral constitution "Gaudium et Spes". Interesting and Sui Genis case is the Bishop's appointment agreement signed on 22 September 2018. between the Holy See and the People's Republic of China, so we're talking about an international contract between the two parties that have not formally recognised each other. Here I would like to recall the words of the late Cardinal Agostina Casarolia, addressed to a state secretary, he said, not an important contract, but an agreement. This statement does not deny the value of the contract or agreement, but rather states that agreed agreements are necessary to promote harmony and co-existence in today's societies. In each agreement, the principle issues are intertwined with purely practical, even technical issues, yet everyone aims to guarantee the local church the best possible space of freedom. On the basis of principle, a common starting point, the contracting party may be to recognise the presence and historical role of the Church in forming a nation, such as here in Croatia and various agreements signed with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But starting with the Second Vatican Ecumenical Assembly, I would say a necessary religious freedom. The final declaration of “Dignitatis humanae” on religious freedom again confirmed that the area of autonomy is protected by this civil freedom fully reconciled with the requirements of “Libertas ecclesiae”. 13 which remains the first and fundamental principle of relations between the Church and every other society. There is a quote: “The harmony between the freedom of the Church and that of religious freedom that should be recognised as right for all people and communities and in the legal order of the laws.” And the constitution “Gaudium et Spes” on its part points to the different aspects of “Libertas ecclesiae” and declares “always and everywhere the Church must have the right to preach with true freedom of faith, teach its social science, to serve its service uninterruptedly among people, and to express a moral court, and also to things relating to political order when it requires fundamental rights, human persons or the salvation of souls.” Religious freedom is both the foundation and borders of the concord. The Concordates are namely a tailored guarantee, primarily the collective and institutional dimensions of religious freedom, without which it cannot exist on an individual level as demonstrated by the painful experience of so-called. real socialism that primarily sought to do away with the practice of faith in the community. In this regard, I think it is important to stress that almost all European countries that have had this experience, and Croatia has not chosen the system of agreements with the church for the restoration of religious freedoms. However, the institutional cooperation from which the concords arise cannot affect the personal religious freedom of the citizens, whether they belong to the Catholic Church, other Christian religions or not belong to any religion. In these agreements, the Catholic Church does not ask the state to act either as the Defensor Fidei, a defender of faith, or as an executive hand of canonical law. It excludes the intention of obtaining a legal framework as appropriate to its specific needs as part of the constitutional right to freedom of religion. After these general discussions, we return to the situation in Croatia. In addition to the four aforementioned international agreements, legal relations between the Croatian State and the Catholic Church have been further arranged by a series of additional agreements. These agreements were concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Bishop's Conference in order to regulate certain specific issues. Under international agreements, these additional agreements are adapted for practical and more concrete purposes, they do not have the status of international contracts, but operational agreements of the local church, local churches and states whose aim is to further determine the generic rules of four international contracts and make them more effective. The conclusion of these agreements is an expression of honesty, openness, trust, but also of constant awareness that contractual clauses are not purely formal or hypothetical statements, but that they are perceived as legal content that seeks to achieve their performance in everyday life in order to achieve the common good. So we can say that the additional agreements represent a special sui genericis source of law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Such additional agreements may be very short and may be based on simple and operational interpartes negotiations. As an example, I would like to mention the Treaty on Caritas of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, which was signed on 18 March 2022, which, at the time of the Republic of Croatia, strongly stressed that the Republic of Croatia considers Christian solidarity to be one of its fundamental social values. This statement is of great importance as an expression of Croatian social reality, but also as a confirmation of the essence of the overall relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See. Christianity and Christian solidarity are the foundations of Western culture and Europe. The countries of the founders of the EU and the creators of its fundamental ideas believe that the core of this multinational organisation and unifying the factor of its internal differences are fundamentally based on Christianity and the Christian idea of solidarity. By regulating caritative activities and social care for the most needed Catholic Church and the Republic of Croatia, they act more as catalysts united in the common objective than as mere partners in the process or as two parties in a purely formal contract. The example of Caritas from the aforementioned Caritas contract may best represent the original purpose, the nobility of the purpose and the purpose of all legal and personal involved in the project of development of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See over the last quarter of the century or at a more concrete and operational level between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Bishop's Conference. As I mentioned earlier through history, but today the relations between the Croatian people and the Holy See were constantly rooted in certain realities. These realities were brutally denied by totalitarian regimes that sought to bring about the life of the church and the faith of the Croatian people, especially by eliminating and destroying the church legal persons, without ever destroying them. Totalitarian regimes sought to undo the spirit and the spiritual, but also the timely goods through which parishes, dioceses, institutions of dedicated life and the society of apostolic life, other institutions, hospitals, orphanages, church cultural institutions, and other ecclesiastical social realities carried out the church’s mission. The essence of this message must be humanitarian and special commitment to the people in this case to the Croatian people. For decades totalitarian destruction has left injuries that cannot be easily healed. Mr. President, I thank you once again for honoring me by giving me the opportunity to address this prestigious event on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Croatia's recognition by the Holy See, and especially on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of our first three contracts. As I have already pointed out, they are merely a modern expression of the long millennium reality of mutual understanding and trust constantly present in our relationship. These legal acts and their prescribed relationships are not meant to say ex niil from anything, they are the result of deep and long historical dynamics, motivations, implications, contexts and traditions. They need to be interpreted crediblely and contextually and thus understood. Relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy Sees have never been a purely formality or a mere administrative façade, a true form without real content and sincere mutual purpose to revive the integrity of this content. The occasion of these great and significant anniversarys should highlight the long and firm faith of the Croatian people, but also the well-intentioned bona fides in the relations of the Holy See and this people. They form a tissue that is the basis of every form and formal appearance of legal contracts and other procedures in which our relationships have been formed and developed. It is precisely because of this comprehensive sincerity of the Holy See throughout the centuries that it remains particularly attached to Croatia, and today it stands faithfully with its beloved Croatian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u103763	I thank you for today's visit to HS, I thank you for your address, and today your speech confirms the great and content relations between Croatia and the Holy See and we all want these relations to be developed and future to the well-being of both countries and Croatian peoples. Thank you again, I wish you a pleasant stay in Croatia and a lot of success. ... We'll continue in 10 minutes. [[Applause]] 10:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108900	Oh! Oh! [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] As I said, let's go to the first point, that is, the final draft law, as announced yesterday was: - The final draft law on air protection laws and amendments to the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 246; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Mile Horvat. Here you go. We've got replicas before the representative came, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108901	I would like to thank the honourable vice president of HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act is today in the second reading. I'll say the short reasons why we went to the amendments to this Law, and then I'll tell you what the differences between the first and second readings came to us at the Ministry. So in 2019, we passed the Air Protection Act, and in the meantime there were circumstances that led to the reason why we had to change and supplement this Law. The circumstances are therefore the following, we received a letter from the EC on 30 October 2020 for infringements, i.e. because of the incorrect application of the 2008 provisions of Directive 50 on air quality, cleaner air for Europe, so I will explain that. At the same time, we used, so we also have a commitment, but this was also an opportunity to bring into these changes and introduce, we implement Regulation 1020 of 2019 governing market surveillance and product conformity, and then Directive 42 of 2004 on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds and the 2006 Services Directive 123 of 2006, I will briefly say something about all of this by which it is said. So, in the period from 2013 to 2020, in the agglomerations of Zagreb and Osijek, in major cities of industrial zones such as Sisak, Kutina and Slavonski Brod, the daily limit values of floating particles in all years of measurement were recorded. So in Croatia, due to overruns recorded from 2013 to 2019, the following cities developed action plans to improve air quality, namely the city of Zagreb, Sisak, Kutina, Osijek, Rijeka, Slavonki Brod, Vinkovci and Velika Gorica. In accordance with EU reporting obligations, the following action plans have been submitted, namely the action plans of the city of Zagreb, Sisak, Osijek, Kutine, etc. The boat and the Great Gore. So, the Ministry delivered their action plans, according to their obligations and as I said, on 30 October 2020 we received a letter of notice or so on. The EU Commission pilot said that the action plans mentioned are too slow to implement their measures, so a slow trend in emission reductions is indicated according to the measures set out in those action plans. So in order to avoid the penalties under this pilot, we replied to the Commission that one of the measures would also be an additional analysis of the legal framework, i.e. the amendment of this Act where we defined certain responsibilities for adoption, so we defined the entities and their responsibilities for the adoption of action plans, for the implementation of action plans, the reporting of action plans, or measures implemented, and we defined the obligation to finance the measures that were adopted in those action plans, and therefore that was, positively adopted in the Commission, we then approached the creation of these amendments to the Air Protection Act. The most important change is in art. 54 So where we have defined that the mandatory opinion on the acceptability of the action plan given by the ministry is competent, it is the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. This opinion shall be adopted on the basis of previously obtained opinions from the competent authorities of the state administration, the competent authorities of the units of the regional (regional) self-government and other competent authorities of the holders of certain activities in the process of drawing up action plans. That is, we are.../incomprehensible/... so the Ministry controls the measures prescribed in these action plans, and we consider it to be a very important fact of quality control of the prescribed measures because they are expected that during the period of duration of the action plan, most often taken to 4 years, these measures are then achieved in reducing emissions. Without that opinion, the action plan cannot be adopted, and so far in the previous law it was not an obligation. Therefore, action plans were freely adopted by the head of local self-government, but there was no obligation to control the measures under these action plans. The action plans must therefore be ensured by the measures provided for in these action plans, which are in line with all stakeholders who are putting together an action plan, which are given their opinion to those stakeholders and if those opinions are called on on those measures, then those measures must be financially defined in the budget of the units of local self-government or the proposer of measures in that action plan. It can also be Croatian roads, it can be one of the competent ministries, so not only local self-government. Therefore, not only is the budget of local self-government burdened with the cost of implementing measures, I repeat not only the budget of the units of local self-government cities but also all those factors that propose in a particular debate, in the expert debate on the development of this action plan, which the measures propose, they must ensure in their budgets and implement these measures. In particular, if one of the measures is to build a road section through a specific agglomeration, they are responsible for the financial security of that measure, that is to say, the budget of the Croatian roads, or those who will implement the measure. What's important here is to say that the head of the local self-government unit is responsible for making the action plan itself. So he must initiate the process of drawing up an action plan, meaning to conduct public procurement for the executioner, so for the bringer of the action plan, which is the authority of the ministry, means a professional person. The unit of local self-government shall have an obligation to adopt an action plan within 15 months, then forward it to the Ministry for an opinion and the action plan shall be submitted within 18 months of the year where the overruns of the sea have been established and the ministry shall send it to the competent commission for an assessment or monitoring within the next six months. It's some kind of hodogram that hasn't been prescribed in the previous law, and then that's the way the action plan was. In addition to this action plan, when this law is adopted, it will be at a public hearing of a regulation already ready for e-consultation. It will define a methodology for drawing up an action plan, so it has already been prepared for the Minister on how to draw up, criteria and conditions for drawing up action plans. This Regulation has been developed in accordance with the Air Quality Directive and the Implementing Decision on Reporting. So we have followed the European regulation on the criteria for drawing up action plans. We also introduced a mandatory reporting on the implementation of these action plans in Article 54. So over two years, the action plan is being monitored by local self-government. All these measurements and reporting shall be placed on the site of local self-government so that citizens can actively participate, so that they are informed of all movements of these measures and the implementation of the measures in the action plans. We also made it possible for the test laboratory, so these are specialised institutions that carry out measurements at local measurement stations, to tell you that the Republic of Croatia has 76 measurement stations, 26 are state-owned stations that are partly financed from the budget, part of the Environmental Protection Fund and we have 50 local stations that have been deployed in those local self-governments that have decided and assessed that it is useful to measure air quality in their area especially if they have an area with industrial facilities, then they have a need to measure, monitor air quality. We also have a third category of measurement stations, and these are measurement stations in industrial plants. So, according to their own permission to the location, where the measures to be followed in their work are prescribed, they have their own measuring stations. So it's a system of measurement stations how it works in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia is divided into six zones and air quality monitoring and four agglomerations according to the population criteria. These are Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek and are installed on them, so state stations, state measurement stations that are connected with the European Commission's information system, then they follow the measurements in this way and signal that in these agglomerations action plans are not implemented according to the prescribed measures they set themselves. We also regulated the behaviour of inspection in the event of fuel control on board ships with this law. I'll say here that open sea ships in their tanks can use fuel with more than 0.5% sulphur. However, when those in their tanks enter the port, they must have a fuel of less than 0.1% of sulphur. The inspections come out, therefore in their actions, control the contents of these containers and, of course, act in accordance with these provisions. This doesn't apply to ships, so this applies primarily to ships that are over 400 tons. Therefore, it does not apply to domestic fishing boats, carts, etc. The control of their fuel is carried out through the fuel suppliers themselves, so by controlling the fuel suppliers, we then control the contents in tanks and these domestic fishermen, or fishing vessels. We also said here that they exist under the said directive and products whose contents are volatile organic compounds over high limits. So, it's about the colors used in the workshops when you do car restorations, so on. oldtimer. These colors that had organic volatile compounds over their limit values must be placed under control. These amendments to the laws will therefore allow them to be used in such a way that, for each such need, the ministry grants a permit for a certain quantity of these colours that can then be made available, so far it has been a free market without the control of the use of such, such colors with organic volatile compounds. Finally, we have given these amendments the opportunity to order and implement certain measures in the action plans. In the previous law, therefore, the inspection did not have the possibility, which was a somewhat absurd question, that the inspection could not order the implementation of measures which were prescribed by the action plans of these local self-government or agglomeration. Finally, paragraph 101 provides for criminal provisions for local self-government leaders if they do not develop an action plan, do not implement an action plan, do not provide for funds in their budgets to finance the measures provided for in that plan and do not notify the public. Therefore, the monetary responsibility and all other participants involved in the development of the action plan is also foreseen. So, if one of the measures proposed by my ministry for not implementing these measures in that action plan will be the responsible head of that ministry or head of the Croatian Roads if one of the measures was tied up as I said to build a certain road through agglomeration. Therefore, there is no provision here only for the responsibility of the head of local self-government but for all stakeholders who are involved in the development, in proposing these measures in the action plans and by accepting these measures. Therefore, it is not enough just to suggest that if there is no agreement and there is no will to do so and, de facto then and financially and to accompany it in the proposals' budgets, because then these measures are self-inflicted, they become immaterial. Between the first and the fines are quite high here, so I'll just say that, are penalties for such leaders somewhere from 50 to 100,000 kuna. So these are their penalties, these are not penalties that can be passed on to, to citizens or taxpayers. Similarly, such punishment may, by such a penalty, be punishable and all other stakeholders who have proposed their actions are not properly installed in the action plan, do not follow the implementation, have not provided for financing or, ultimately, if they obstruct the implementation of these action plans. Between the first and second readings, between the first and the second readings, we had the comments of the Committee on Law of Nomotechnical Nature, we accepted that. We also had comments from HSLS representatives, Reformists and Green-Left Block Club who asked to delete paragraph 4, in Article 7, we did not accept this because Article 7 was defined, the work of DHMZ which performs the tasks is defined in that Article 7; it is the reference office for the implementation of this law. Therefore, we could not accept that remark. And this Ministry of Justice had objections to the nomotechnical nature that we agreed on, of course. Now, in the end, all I'm going to tell you is information to fill out a picture of all this. So the DHMZ is implementing one, two very important projects. The first is the I-Fusion Modernisation of the State Network for Sustainable Air Quality Monitoring, the project is worth 125 million kuna. The user is like I said to the State Hydrometeorological Institute, and his partner is the Institute of Medicine and Medical Research. The result of this project is the following, so 8 measurement stations are released today, Osijek 1, Osijek 2, Kutina 1, Slavonski Brod 1 one measuring station, Sisak one measuring station, Zagreb 3 measuring stations, Rijeka 1 and Desinić. In the final phase there are also 3 measurement stations which hopefully will be installed very quickly, which are Pula, Visnjan and Omisalj. And what is most important is this IFQ project has made it possible to use the DHMZ programme which will be the basis for comprehensive, comprehensive data processing on, which will be the basic basis for drawing up local self-government action plans according to this law. This has not been possible so far, so it is a modern European model that is not even cheap. So, also through this project, we have been given the opportunity, or DHMZ, to modernize and put it into the function of precisely drawing up these action plans. And the second project is the modernisation of the meteorological measuring network that is METEMONIC, which weighs somewhere around 340 million kuna, 290 EU funds remain a hydrometeorological institution and the Environmental Protection Fund is funded. What's the big deal here? Through these activities, through this project we will modernise a total of 450 stations in the Republic of Croatia. So we have 34 main meteorological stations, 139 air-conditioned stations, 264 umbrella stations, 6 meteorological radars, 2 altitude stations, and 5 meteorographic oceanographers. And I'll just end up with this information. So, in early 2002, a new meteorological radar was released into operation at the old site of Gradište in Vukovar-Srijem County. Test work is under way on the site of Bilogora, Bjelovar-Biogorje County. In late March 2022, a radar was installed on the location of Debeljak in the municipality of Sukosan. In May 2022, the installation of radar devices in Istria began at the location of Gola near Labin and at the location of Uljana on Pelješac and Stari Puntijarka on Medvednica, construction works for the installation of these meteorological radars, so with this whole Adriatic will be information. and analytically covered. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108902	Thank you. Stay dear secretary here because we have a whole series of replicas, the first respected MPs Vucimilović, pardon Maksimčuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108903	Thank you very much, Vice President. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Air Act, a law that will certainly draw public attention to those cities where limit values are exceeded. I welcome any legislative progress that will help my fellow citizens to have clean air. But how is the situation of air pollution in the town of Slavonski Brod a little more complex because part of the pollution of course comes from neighbouring us BiH, which will mean specifically for the town of Slavonski Brod, along with these plans, will still need talks and arrangements with our neighbours to find a common solution and what role will the ministry play in doing so further? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108904	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108905	Thank you. Dear MPs, so Slavonski Brod and air pollution in Slavonski Brod is always an interesting topic and this is the topic we follow. So there are two measured stations Slavonski Brod 1 and Slavonski Brod 2, the fact is that air pollution is stronger in the winter period when private bars are used intensively, and now we have measurements that show a certain progression or reduction of pollution. The fact is that Slavonski Brod and the location of the way that you don't have large ventilations like in some other agglomerations, that big fogs that are the same factor that affects the descent of these particles. And what I can say is that we're communicating with the town of Slavonski Brod, so far we've had eight attempts at making an action plan, eight attempts, so here we are in January this year. with professional people making action plan in the town of Slavonski Brod [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] where we gave them instructions on how to do it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108906	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108907	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. For years, the European Environment Agency has been warning of poor air quality in Croatia. According to their estimates, over 5,000 premature deaths each year are due to poor air quality. A lot of these changes and additions talk about action plans, but how they'll be done if we don't have enough measurements, and that's obvious. All 27 are in the state network doing something about it and I warmly welcome it, but with all due respect to the pollutants and their measurement stations until we have a state network that will cover the quality of Croatia as a whole, we can hardly have quality air quality data. So please tell me when you intend to state network of measurement stations covered all of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108908	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108909	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, the regime for the deployment of national measurement stations has been resolved by a regulation on pollution, so according to that regulation, Croatia is divided into five pollution zones and four agglomerations per population, the criterion is the European population, industrial exposure and so on, so there are agglomerations Osijek, Rijeka, Split, and Zagreb. Under that regulation, they have state stations, the city of Osijek has even two measures, all others are allocated according to the criteria set out in this Regulation. But that doesn't interfere with local self-government if the estimate has its own local measuring station.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108910	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108911	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The aim of the proposed measures and the amendment and addition of this law is, above all, the adoption of better action plans and the implementation of effective measures to reduce air pollution in order to achieve the limit values. We know that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund finance various projects and programmes in the field of environmental protection and energy efficiency, such as co-financing of energy renovations of buildings, family houses, procurement of energy-efficient vehicles for citizenship and units of local self-government and economy and various other projects. I wonder if you are considering a model of public calls for use of these funds that will give priority to units of local self-government that have greater pollution, and smaller indices of development or unit of local self-government with minor contaminants? Do we know that so far public calls do not valorize this, it will be difficult to reduce air pollution or achieve environmental limit values? These environments without direct state aid. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108912	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108913	I thank you, Your Honor. So I absolutely agree with you that local self-government especially with smaller fiscal capacity cannot deal with this problem alone. Therefore, the Environment Fund has a certain policy in agreement with the ministry to finance projects that lead to air pollution reduction. So in 2020. he made 11 calls worth 430 million kuna, in 2021. were three calls worth 525 million kuna which should result in a reduction in air pollution in certain agglomerations, so as anyone used it, I am now not having this review that local self-governments have competed with, but I think these funds were available to all those who were willing to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108914	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108915	My dear secretary. Now a great burden has been put on local self-government, which is actually understandable. These action plans should be made in this case by the Ministry as a supervisory body and an advisory body, and later probably as a control body, given that data are collected from all measurement stations. I believe in that line in real time I'm guessing there's no record of how it's being collected, but it says that the information system is run by the Ministry. My question is what is foreseen, at what intervals will corrective actions be done, or activities if something bad is seen going on, or there is no repair in air quality? Is that supposed to be within, say, a month, two, three or five, or are you going to respond to the need, given what's happening on a particular unit?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108916	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108917	Dear Representative, therefore, the whole thing works in a way that these state-owned measurement stations are tied to the Commission's competent service and that the limit values of cross-border values are monitored at that state station, and here we are talking about floating particles PM10 and 2.5. When they cross the limits... in other air quality throughout the year, so we cannot count the peaks, but according to the Regulation on the value of concentrations of pollutants prescribed by the criteria, these percentages of excesses are monitored and then react. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission reacted in a way that it said that the measures these action plans in these 5 cities did not lead to these reductions. So, I'm gonna need a little longer. longer to explain how it works [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But now obviously that... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108918	The replica has a respected representative of Bačić, Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108919	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. While we are on the subject of air protection, we can also touch the climate change itself, so I will use this bill to remind you of the Republic of Croatia's last summit on climate change from Glasgow where the Prime Minister said that we would plant a million trees a year until 2030 to reduce exactly the CO2 footprint of the Republic of Croatia, especially when we watch the number of guests and tourists coming to us during the season. I'm curious, from the level of the Ministry and the Government themselves, how do you intend to meet this plan, have you agreed on anything? I must point out that here we have very good examples of planting and shaming only from the Federation of Scouts of Croatia through the projects Boranka, Šumoborci, CO2MPENSATING BY PLANTING, so I wonder if you are in contact with them specifically, as the Ministry plans to meet this request... ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108920	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108921	I thank you, Your Honor. So as one of the measures in the EU Commission project prepared for minus 55 is planting, increasing the forest fund to increase CO2 sinks. So it's a natural mechanism that, for the state, would be the most efficient and useful because it would increase the forest fund and this one, would be the cheapest. So, we talk about it, we talk about it right now and the Ministry of Tourism how to spend it, we also talk to Croatian forests which, therefore, the foresters know we can plant something, but planting so many seedlings falls under the regime of forest bases and certain criteria and rules that the forest waist should verify. So there's this conversation, and we'll see soon enough how it will result.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108922	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108923	I thank the chairman. So, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You're familiar with the situation and the constant air pollution in Slavonski Brod. The inhabitants there are trying to track the data displayed on the devices, but this is difficult for a number of reasons. Namely, the measuring devices are often broken down or the data is validated. What exactly does that mean when the data is validated? What's this procedure for? I'm asking you this primarily because I haven't found an answer to that question, it's not in this bill, and secondly, it's this validation process that gives birth to suspicions among our fellow citizens in the transparency of data evidence on the measurement devices themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108924	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108925	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So in Slavonski Brod we have two measurement stations that are in the state regime, two state-owned measurement stations, Ship 1 and Ship 2. The data shall be processed by the reference office, meaning either this, DHMZ or any other reference office. How they do that, what techniques, I'd have to ask, if you accept that the answer is, I'll ask them to explain to me the category of validation of data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108926	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108927	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So by a provision of Art. 48b refers to the fact that when it comes to old-timers, derogations may be made regarding the use of paints and varnishes, but also allow and determine derogations for the purpose of maintaining and restoring buildings that are protected by cultural well-being. So we, we had an earthquake. What is expected is that the public purpose buildings have one more year to use for them the funds that we were destined for from the Solidarity Fund. A lot of these buildings are protected culturally well. What I'm interested in is whether certain meetings, arrangements or discussions within your ministry related to colors and arches that will surely have to be used to rebuild certain of these buildings are protected by public good in terms of certain deviations and others, were the meetings therefore related to the subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108928	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108929	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So as for the solidarity fund itself and the cost of the earthquake and in Zagreb itself, but also in these counties and in Banija, etc., inside our Ministry, therefore, calls for reporting costs in water projects, in energy and in waste management related to the cleaning of space from construction material were opened. This call is open by the end of 5 months and not all of its costs have yet been reported by cities, municipalities, and other users to report all these costs, to see what acceptable costs are and then we'll open up this other topic that you've said here which is a very interesting topic for the talks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108930	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108931	In your presentation you said that Pula, Višnjan and Omisalj through a separate project were part of the environment where measuring stations for air quality were placed. In particular, in the municipality of Omisalj, i.e. in Omislj, such a station was set up after we gave consent to the establishment of the right of service five years ago. In view of its constitution, I cannot tell whether this station is in operation, whether it works but I am interested in what conditions and at which intervals Omisalj municipality will be able to obtain data on the results from this measurement becoming all due to the fact that in the Omishalj municipality, one pollutant has already given a report in which 32 times more ground ozone particles were identified than it was acceptable, and we have no information as to whether anyone was responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108932	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108933	So the data from these measurement stations will come as I said after this new project in DHMZ and they'll be the database, they'll process them and they should signal us by that if there's any overruns. So, at this point, I can't confirm with certainty that such information has come to the ministry. But definitely from the IRQ project with the modernisation of the entire DHMZ system we should be getting this information from this measurement station of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108934	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108935	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. My question concerns tracking the emissions from the waste dump. According to the latest report on municipal waste management in Croatia for 2020, the total number of official landfills in the Republic of Croatia is 317. It is a large number of landfills that represent a significant emitter of waste particles, toxic smells, uncomfortable gas dumps, i.e. greenhouse gases of methane and carbon dioxide. However, as part of the rules on air protection and regulations governing the monitoring and emissions of waste disposal, they are not recognised as fixed sources of emissions. Since there is an obligation to monitor emissions from waste disposal while they are working and when they are closed, my question is whether it is legally possible to carry out accreditation from the Croatian accreditation agency and obtain permission from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development to measure emissions from the waste disposal that I repeat are not recognised as immovable sources of emissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108936	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108937	I thank you, Your Honor. So here we have a situation that a regulation on the limit values of waste dumps that are, some are active, some are not, so they are not placed in a category of immovable emission sources such as housecases etc. And accordingly, they are not carried out to measure pollutants in the air. We as a ministry, so we don't give permission to an accredited organization. Therefore, the Agency would issue accreditation to a particular organisation or entity for the measurement of certain pollution particles. When we issue a permit, then we issue a permit that must already contain that accreditation. Therefore, for the control and measurement of air pollution particles at landfills, the ministry does not issue a permit under the law, there are measurement stations that measure this as they are engaged at each of these landfills.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108938	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108939	Dear Secretary of State, here's my colleague Ante Bacic has already asked that question, but I'm going to fill it in a little bit. It's about shaming, so in this context. As we know, and I believe that this fact is also familiar to you, and I can very much contribute to air filtration, and in the context of that, it should go to work as soon as possible regarding the commitment, the promise and the Prime Minister, and it is a commitment because it is promised, so the planting of millions of trees a year. Is it moving, where did it come from? I also have to say one very important thing here, which is the Dalmatian forests, the pine trees of halepensis, the aleppo pine trees, the pinus trees, the black pine pine trees, the pine trees. What's going on with that? So, we have cataclysm boro too much and pine brush has destroyed more trees than all the forest fires combined.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108940	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108941	I thank you, Your Honor. That was more of a forest profession question. So, regarding the shaming, i.e. the planting of a million trees as an activity that we as a state have accepted as part of the initiative ready for 55, I said that this moment, the discussions on how to conduct it on the ground. So the forest waist has its own rules, the economic foundations are clear. The question is which space and how to forest a million trees and where we expect the forest waist to help us and to tell us how, the location, what kind of species, etc. So it's not old enough to be able to answer in one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108942	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108943	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, yesterday on the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection asked what if the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government who are obliged to adopt action plans in fear of possible failure to comply with the provisions of the action plans and afterwards punish them to make their proposed action plans insufficiently ambitious for what is required, to improve air quality. What are your tools then, and what can the ministry do about it means by insufficiently ambitious proposed action plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108944	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108945	The Honorable representative, therefore, is the first action to launch an initiative to develop action plans by the local self-government leader. So he doesn't do action plans, neither do his people, but he does authorized specialised houses that are chosen on a public call. And then they put forward a proposal for these measures from the point of view of the profession. These measures must be in line with all bodies that are interested in the whole thing. When it is agreed, such a proposal for an action plan is submitted to the ministry. Our services then compare all these consents and say this action plan has been agreed on in all elements. Consensus means that those who have given their consent to some measures must also implement it financially and monitor it in their resolutions. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108946	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108947	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here from your ministry, we are getting information that air quality in the Republic of Croatia is satisfactory, and yet on the other hand, the European Commission brings a different opinion. Also, in a recently published document reviewing the human rights situation in Croatia, we see the emphasis that measures to reduce air pollution are lagging behind. Here, I really don't get it, and I believe that most of our citizens don't get it, so give us a little explanation of who's giving the wrong information, whether it's the Ministry or the European Commission. And also as far as Slavonski Brod is concerned by concrete action plans, last time you said six times eight times that it was back to work, so it's a huge inter-periode in which it could certainly have been much more done. So, until the plan is accepted by either being or not much less implemented, so we're talking about a big time period, so the question is, couldn't there have been much more done to finally get here an action plan of any kind accepted to actually start implementing the measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108948	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108949	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, when the pilot sent us, the commission referred to action plans and measurements from 2013 to 2019, to these 5 agglomerations. We officially have some information that we are in the first category, so air cleanness because it's past the period of heating, so the home lodges are no longer used and the measurements show, so the data we have, we don't measure it in the ministry, but we get this data from, from the authorized institute that we are, that the Republic of Croatia is currently in the first category of air cleanliness. Related to Brod, for Action Plans, 2018, 2019, 2020, October 2020, January '21, July '21, December '21. The plans, therefore, are the dates when the plans were submitted to the ministry, returned to do so, theirs, not to the mayor, but to the authorities paid by the mayor to do so as a profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108950	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108951	Thank you very much. Well, we're talking about the Air Protection Act today, and it's obvious that what we're most interested in is trust in data. So the question is how do we solve this because let's remember last year, let's say, the City of Zagreb, where for days and months, the City of Zagreb was claimed to be the most dirty i.e. has the worst air even worse than some cities in China, India, etc., until someone is a little better at it and finds that such a measurement station does not exist at all. That it was a wish for some who were dealing with these air-cleaning appliances and then he has his own website on which the media read that Zagreb was the most polluted, but then it turned out that it was not. Does this law have certain provisions and penalties for such opportunities not to alarm people without any reason because we know that we have dotted problems and the town of Slavonski Brod and some places where we are, we have waste management centres and certainly there are certain problems, but can we generally analyze and respond to the air in Croatia is bad, and we do not have enough good information and how to create trust if we have and such phenomena that happen to us and whether this law solves it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108952	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108953	So, Your Honor, first of all, I think with this IRQ project that got the DHMZ as our main reference office, so with the most valuable data, it will improve quality, modernise the entire system of measuring air quality monitoring. I think we will be in a situation where we will have data on measuring the quality of air at EU level when this project and modernisation and laboratory equipment and laboratory equipment are established on the ground that we will have very high quality data. In a certain number of sanctions, the law sanctioned some behavioral behavior. So, is it sanctioned now that the abuse of data I can't say right now, but there's probably going to be a situation where the use of wrong data will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108954	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, surely health protection, air protection and health protection of each individual, and I believe that if not, in any case, one coordination with our public health institutions should be expressed, because here from your exposure it is evident that this has a significant impact on the health of each individual, and we have also heard that large industrial plants are particularly polluting air, and I am interested in what areas in which this industrial production is not expressed, but it is in certain micro locations a restriction and conditionality on agricultural production where various pesticides and derivatives are often used uncontrollably, so I am interested in who and how it can control any such activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108956	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108957	Your Honor. So, as regards large industrial plant systems which are otherwise potential particle emitters and air pollutants, I said potentially that it is not understood in general, they should work in accordance with environmental permits that are very restrictive and they are very restrictively prescribing the measures to be implemented in their activity by such a facility. Therefore, as soon as the measures are prescribed, there is an automatic open space for competent inspections to control the implementation of these measures. And here it is in art. In 97th of this law even provided for very serious sanctions for leaders of these means the owners of these plants, which are 300 to 600,000 kuna, will be punished by a legal person if they do not implement the measures prescribed it is sufficient that one measure is not implemented and is already sanctioned by this provision. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108958	Thank you very much. I see we have a request for a break. Can we finish up maybe a colleague of Shashin's and a replica and then, yes? Here he is, the esteemed representative of Shashin still has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108959	Here's Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's precisely thanks to the fact that I think the climate situation, the geographical position and the very good noise of the Republic of Croatia, I think we can say that the state of clean air in the Republic of Croatia is very good, except for some smaller ones to say dotted areas I don't know like Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Kutina etc. where perhaps a little more intensively this monitoring and monitoring is needed. That's why I think these activities would be related to monitoring, etc. in some ways, as much as possible, it should be more centralised that they are carried out from one place through the DZMH that in some way and because of human resources, professional capacities, and also financial ones to tell local self-government units to dissipate it. and somehow centralizing it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108960	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108961	I thank you, Your Honor. So, the system is conceived in a way that we have zones like I said that based on some European criteria defined in the Republic of Croatia these five zones are and four agglomerations are deployed state stations as many as 25 and they are related to their data to the European Commission. Therefore, we have control that is attributed to this and we still have 50 local measurement stations in local self-government units that have self-evaluated that they are doing well to install one measurement station, they have a reference laboratory that controls that data, which communicates with the chief and then monitors what is the trend of air pollution trends, etc. It's a system that's working right now. Central data of course drives DHMZ and we use their data as... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108962	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Mosta break was requested by the respected representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108963	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Mosta Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes after this proposed Air Protection Act, we are talking about air protection, and this is a very important topic, and it is important for sustainable development, with unfortunately destroyed our industry, we still have problems, and the key problem I can list in Split-Dalmatia County is, with all the problems we have, we can list traffic, pesticides, herbicides, glyphosate all of which we can state, however, one of the biggest problems is waste management and not conditional dumps in the Split-Dalmatia County area because the damages are made by the Pest Project Lečevica where we have invested in the last 15 years, 10 years 30, 40 million kuna absolutely nothing has been made so that we are in a position to dump along the river Cetina and the Brnaze, the Turijake and the tributions of the Mojnka River and literally Vrčna River are forced to make ourselves with the old vehicles which are not expensive and the waste, which are not expensive from the waste, which is the waste, which we are not expensive, but the waste of the waste, which are now. Too many dumps, waste management centres are not built, we have major damage to air and quality of life mainly in large cities such as Brnaze, Turkish part of Dicma municipality and that is a huge problem. And nobody's worried about it, we can measure the air, but we're aware that there's a harmful air that we're going to pay for a number of penalty due to the poor policy that the county is carrying out in the interest of who knows who So here I am, in the name of the club, and in the debate, I will speak. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108964	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I am not opening the debate then, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian High Representatives' Club, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108965	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I want to show my support to the citizens of Belišče who will have a peaceful protest and will walk because they only want clean air. And it's not the first peaceful protest where the citizens of Belish and Valpo protest, and nothing happens. Already at first reading the most remarks were about transferring responsibility to local self-government units, they have no financial, no human, no administrative capacity to solve these problems. And that's a fact, we can close our eyes to that problem, we can say that no one interferes with a municipality or a city to put a measurement station, but they simply don't have money for it, or think it's on their list of priorities not at the top. However, while they pay their aunts in kindergarten, while all other expenses are paid, they probably don't have any money because we know that the vast majority of local self-government units are not financially sustainable and can't settle everything with those funds, let alone still set up measuring stations. In addition, I think that in this debate we should highlight one fact that is simply undeniable, which is that the problem of air quality is not enough in our society in general and at all levels put as an important problem. So we, first of all, at all levels and at all levels, must first of all raise awareness of the problem of air quality as an important issue. When we talk about air quality, then we all agree that exactly the quality of air is crucial to the health of our inhabitants. We all agree that there are problems, and we all agree that these problems are not solved quickly enough, and you can, if you think that I am wrong to ask all our citizens, I suggest, start with Belisce 21.5. when they will protest peacefully just because they want clean air. When a question is raised at the level of the municipality, city or county, then the answer is more or less similar and always refers to insufficient financial resources that are necessary to carry out continuous air quality measurements in all areas where there are problems and where there are complaints from citizens. We already have what is formal, which informal groups, associations that advocate solving environmental problems, and including the problem of air quality, are very active and constantly warning about the problems they have. In order to even know what air quality is, we have to have measurement stations and I'm going to point out once more what I said and in the replica, it has to be measurement stations that are part of the state network. With all due respect to all those who have to do so by law because they are pollutants, the measurement stations must be state-owned networks. There are currently 27 of them, and how much EU-wide measures are being taken by the European Court of Auditors, which says that the measures taken by the EU in order to protect human health from air pollution did not have an expected impact because in some cases air pollution is underestimating because pollution monitoring may not occur in appropriate places. So we have measurement stations where we don't need them. I'll give you one that I think is speculative, and maybe it'll disassociate me, and it's in Osijek-Baranja County in PP Kopački ass. So we have a measuring station in the nature park where the air should be of the proper quality. Maybe it's a rose wind, I don't know, the waist might explain it better, but the question is whether we need a measuring station or in Beliss where citizens are constantly complaining and it's been a long, long time. Art. 11 of this, these amendments and the addition of the Law relating to Art. 54th century 7 of the Law says it is necessary to deliver an action plan to the Ministry within a specified deadline from the end of the year in which the excess was established. I'm going to point out one more time where the overrun has been established. If there are no measurement stations, how do we determine the overrun? How do we know if the air is of the proper quality and whether the emissions are exceeded? No measurement stations at all. It's just impossible. Therefore, municipalities, cities and counties do not have to fear that they will gain some additional jobs because as long as there are no measurement stations, there are no action plans. And of course, what he's imposing as a perfectly legitimate question is why would they ask all these measurement stations when it's their extra job. Why? School in Art. 12 of these activities can also not be carried out without sufficient number of measurement stations. All that is written here is becoming questionable implementation and mere satisfaction of form until we create a state network of measurement stations. You said three new ones this year, three are already in preparation. I appeal to continue to work on this, I believe that the EU can get them to provide us with the means to create a quality network, a state network, and I stress once again that the state network of measurement stations so that our citizens have air-sufficient quality. Why am I saying this? So we've had a provision in the law so far. 36 In order to demonstrate at the request of an inspector or upon the citizens’ application that air pollution occurred, the executive body must demonstrate the eligibility of the application and, if the application has been justified, carry out the measurement of the specific purpose, i.e. the assessment of the level of pollution. In that case, as possible and as is happening on the ground, the companies responsible for polluting the emissions temporarily, and after measuring the special purpose, continue according to the old and it happens to us. This is what happens to us in Lower Miholjc where citizens complain again, and we have had a whole series of inspection controls that have confirmed that the law in the biogas plant has been violated. And it's happening again and again, and now we're going to have more likely and more protests, and again we're going to have inspection results, and after that, if there's no measurement, it's going to be one big nothing. Only continuous measurement at measurement stations within the state network can provide sufficient quality data based on quality action plans and ultimately ensure the quality of air that our residents deserve. Once again, I will repeat what the European Environment Agency points out year after year, year after year in its reports for Croatia. They estimate that external costs are linked to health caused by air pollution of nearly 2 billion euros annually. That's 15 billion kuna a year. Loss of working days, illnesses, agricultural losses, health costs, etc. The same agency estimates that in Croatia more than 5,000 premature deaths are due to air pollution every year. I think this data is quite enough to run, speed up and build a high-quality network of measurement stations that will be state-owned and that will give our residents what they need, which they must have guaranteed, which is the quality of the air that is satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108966	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Darko Klasic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108967	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, air quality and related systems are becoming increasingly important in modern societies to study how the growing environmental, health, economic problem especially in developed urban centres. Unfortunately, while there is a trend in raising awareness about environmental protection, there is a real risk of air quality distortion, especially because of the latest energy crisis, as citizens will be forced to use different fuels for economic reasons that can significantly affect air quality. In Zagreb due to the non-resolvement of the Jakuševac waste dump that directly affects the quality is also in other major urban environments due to several serious environmental incidents as well as emissions from the transport sector and specific industrial plants such as refineries, we already have unwanted effects on air quality. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection is almost all elements of the harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation. Although we did have several remarks at first reading, we are finally satisfied with this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. First of all, we are satisfied with its alignment with the essential EU directives, whose Croatian regulations regulate the area of air protection, in particular, with the regulation on the limit values of the content of volatile organic compounds in certain colors and varnishes used in the construction and end-processing products, the Regulations on the level of air pollution, the air quality monitoring Regulation, the Regulations on the levels of air pollution and the regulations on the emission limit values of pollutants and air from fixed sources. This will certainly make it easier to understand and implement obligations under this law for all those entities that are bound to implement them. I would like to remind you that the previous Air Protection Act has been amended three times in order to comply with the EU acquis and to comply with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. Also, in July 2019 The European Commission issued an official notice against Croatia, which then stated that the EU Air Quality and Clean Air Directive for Europe was not properly implemented in Croatian national legislation, which was also an essential element for the adoption of this new law. In addition to harmonising this law with the European Directive, its great importance and quality is that it contains the principle of sustainable development, as the problem of excessive air pollution is recognised in several parts of Croatia as the main environmental problem. This principle therefore opens the door to the use of the best available techniques to prevent air pollution and prevent possible pollution that will also adversely affect the environment and human health. As a result, it was necessary to establish the responsibility and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans to improve air quality. We therefore particularly welcome the addition of the new Article 54a. the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb undertake to monitor the implementation of measures to reduce air pollution, to adopt a timetable for the implementation and monitoring of air pollution levels as a result of the implementation of the measures set out in the action plan. This commits local self-government units to play an active role in creating measures and targets to preserve air quality in local environments. With regard to air quality monitoring for test laboratories, it is easier to obtain the conditions for the launch of economic and sustainable development permits by new legal persons who want to deal with air emissions and quality measures. This prevents monopoly and opens the door to the market for new economic operators to work, all of which together affects the increasing competence of the laboratory and contributes to the employment of professional staff. It is evident from this that the new law, not much but still reduces existing obligations without imposing new ones, which is its additional value as we as liberals always welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108968	The following will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club for the Honorable Representative Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108969	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with associates, associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today will be a long and hot day. Under point three to discuss one topic, a law that was there from the former state that was truly revolutionary at the time. But I'd make one link to the topic of environmental protection. First legislation on environmental protection since 1988. When I became so discreetly involved in environmental protection at the state level, it was three people, so not long ago, not as long ago as that law we were going to talk about under point three but back in '88. We had environmental protection, so we started to assess the impact on the environment. And you know what was an important topic always in environmental impact assessments? That's where I want to make a link to why you're going with the amendment and the addition of this law. It was monitoring. So it was important, so you do an environmental impact assessment, then you figure out what the problem is and everything else is, and then it's important that Chapter III, so some conclusions about how some things are going to be monitored, processes in space. And at the beginning when the environmental impact assessment started, then there was a lot of stuff written there, so it doesn't matter someone will follow. And then it turns out that it can't really be like that, that you have to install some kind of measure into some kind of document that was called a local and construction permit behind it. Well, then you have to commit someone with some deadlines and take care of it. Why are we talking about this? For the simple reason I really don't want to, I want to talk about this law that's in second reading affirmatively in the way it is. Likewise, so we worked on some other levels of strategy, then we worked on action plans. Paper's got a lot of stuff going on. And it's good to have, but then you have to have both the instrument and the way you can commit someone to really follow something, to really do something, to have results and that these results can be over time so you can compare them and everything else. That's how I read this amendment to the Environmental Protection Act. Introductoryly, the secretary of state said that he was, in fact, a pilot who was by the European Commission, to show some things that we don't have things to have, or that it wasn't done to the end. And the ministry is trying to find ways to really when we have and the topic is also the main topic on which everything is going together and action plans, to have action plans that can be controlled, in which it is clearly written who is in charge of certain measures, who is in charge not only of paper, but who is in charge and financially and who then has responsibility if these individual measures that they are really not taken care of. At the beginning the topic of environmental protection was such a very fluid theme over time that it was really much more detailed and much more reasonablely defined in the way it should be and we have one, it still seems to me a correct Air Protection Act. What are the changes, we'll give it a chance and we'll see. No one has a magic wand. Magic sticks are in some kind of fairy tale we're telling kids at night. It has a magic wand and finds one modelity so that it will then be valid for the whole of Croatia is impossible. We have 556 units of local self-government, each one is different and each one is with its own problems. Some local self-government units know absolutely well the problem of air protection. Other units, to make a joke like that, you have a problem with air protection. So we can export you like that in cans a little bit, so I'm really kidding a little bit now, but 556 units of local self-government, 556 different problems. Put that under a common denominator financially and certainly different is impossible. There was one of the colleagues on the right in the matter of the secretary of state who said but whether or not there is a possibility that units that have more problems with air protection can then get different amounts of funds and other things. As soon as you introduced different criteria, you introduced different problems. And the question is who and how. I kind of always think it should be grouped, defined and everything else. Is this the way the ministry has decided to actually have, that it gives consent at the stage of already adopting action plans and that it has a certain control over whether there are enough people, whether there are enough instruments, whether there are any ways to do so. The Ministry decided so and I won't suspect it at this point, but I think eventually a series of things we're going to have to do will fall on a key topic, which is people. I've mentioned people on purpose now, because I'm going to refer to the regulation of the law, which is about laboratories, and that's where it's still being added, so Article 63, that's Article 13 and the amendment of Article 63, where it was before that at least three workers were employed, and that all three of them must have completed graduate university I'm not going to be able to read now. Now the legislator decided to leave three of them with at least one graduate university study. And that's where we get in trouble again. On the one hand, we want labs where we want to have employees of people who have a certain quality, knowledge, experience and everything else, to get them to be the best there, to make sure they do their job well. On the other hand, you have one problem here, on the other hand, you have a problem that we don't have people, that you don't have people. Try to get a quality staff in the public administration today, especially when you always need to hire a certain frame at a time when and to say so in real life you need it. I got a letter yesterday really doesn't have anything to do with this relationship, but I have to mention that the subject of the inspection always has to do with it, I got a letter from the building inspectors who said '99 we were 250, today there are 89, of us 89 who are in the State Inspectorate over half over 60 and over. What do you want? You want to protect space, you want to protect everything together? We're gone, no one's coming to work. For no one to come to the state administration, it's our fault, and we know it's our fault, too. When you see people from whom we expect knowledge, from whom we expect experience, which we expect to know more than everyone else we call love, different names, we call them here. So instead of saying that one of the tasks should be to get the highest quality fit in the state administration, the highest quality when it should come to the inspectorate because we don't expect the inspectors to just go around with the ones, to joke with the paragon blocks and punish themselves rather than work educationally. How they'll work educationally when they're not educated. So this law is one of those types of laws, I say, you know, you have some laws that you'd rather discuss and some laws that you're discussing because you have to sort out what it is. This law is something to me and by profession and by all means relatively close and I am happy to discuss it, but I am happy to discuss it to try to understand that all these standards that are behind it are real and in real life someone needs to make an action plan, someone needs to work in the lab, someone needs to conduct an inspection. Who? Guys. What are we falling on in the end? On people. So, for people who are high-quality in their heads regardless of leaving Croatia, what possibly foreigners come here to keep their foot in the door so there's no way at least one 122 reasons why they don't. And we can pass the best laws in the world, they can be perfect, there can be procedures prescribed to another decimal, but these laws will always fall to implementation. And this law is one of those laws where we speak, and we all say affirmably we want to protect the air, we want to have quality air, we want to actually have one state and country that has the opportunity to, from both the aspect and environmental protection and climate change, be one of the few higher positions that are not at the bottom, but colleagues and colleagues, we can discuss the laws in one way or another, let's finally start discussing those laws that will work under these laws, which will ensure that these laws are enforceable, and these are people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108970	The next club of MPs will be the SDP, and a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108971	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS. These amendments and additions to the laws appear to comply with European directives and EU requirements or objectives. And the EU's long-term goal is to achieve those air quality levels that do not threaten and affect human health and the environment. Floating particles, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-floor ozone are today considered to be three polluting substances that affect human health the most. Exposure during maximum concentration and long-term exposure to these pollutants depends on the severity of the effect from respiratory disorder to premature death. And about 90% of European citizens are exposed to these polluting substances at concentrations above the level of air quality considered harmful to health. For example. Small floating particles in the air are estimated to reduce life expectancy in the EU by more than eight months. I think this information is really worth the attention and value of the measure, even if it's even these measures that we're taking today. As part of the European Green Plan, the EU's action plan for a zero pollution rate set out the objective of reducing the number of premature deaths due to exposure to small floating particles by more than 55% to 2030. Compared to 2005, according to an analysis by the European Environment Agency, the EU is currently on track to achieve this goal as the number of deaths decreased by about a third in the period 2005-2019. This law also determines the responsibility and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans to improve air quality. A mandatory opinion is being introduced on the acceptability which is an integral part of the decision on the adoption of the action plan and is given by the competent ministry. It undertakes that the bodies of the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb as holders of certain activities and measures are obliged to implement and finance measures to reduce air pollution identified in action plans. Reports on the implementation of measures for a period of two years for units of local self-government are prescribed to introduce new infringement provisions unless they implement and ensure the financing of air pollution mitigation measures. As regards the unit of local self-government and their roles in implementing action plans, it relates to monitoring and assessing the quality of air in its area, determines the location of measurement stations to monitor air quality. Local self-government units shall continue to adopt a pollution measurement programme, ensure the conditions of its implementation, monitor the implementation of these activities and provide annual data to the Ministry of origin and validated air quality monitoring data. And all of these, in fact, all of these tasks of the local self-government unit wouldn't be questionable if they were in some part deviating from the fact that units of local self-government don't always possess the data they need to carry out all these activities or at least do not have true, accurate and credible data. I will point out once again, although the Secretary of State mentioned in his presentation only floating particles, so other than floating particles and ground-floor ozone, or an increased concentration of ground-floor ozone can damage the health of humans, animals and plants and cause damage to materials. Therefore, monitoring ground-floor ozone concentrations is an integral part of air quality monitoring. The ground-floor ozone is produced for sunny times with low relative moisture and when air is rich in nitrogen oxides and volatile hydrocarbons, which is related to, or is done by burning fuel in cars. What especially makes this ground-floor ozone reference? Because, somehow, oral exposure does not always indicate any other polluting particles that should be listed, other than floating substances, and precisely the terrestrial ozone is the subject of one air quality assessment report in the Omisalj municipality for the period 2019, where the target value of the ozone is exceeded 32 times, which is more than the allowed number of excesses and is allowed 25 times a year. Well, if you want, seven times the overrun in the Omistry as far as the terrestrial ozone was concerned was greater than it was allowed. And here begins and ends all the information the local self-government unit has on air quality in its area. For this reason, I have also asked the Secretary of State under what conditions and under what circumstances the units of local self-government on which the measurement stations are located will have insight into air quality data in their area, so that they can react precisely to deviations. In addition, a pay phone before me, counterpart Mrak-Taritash pointed to the most important item actually implementing this, but also all other laws, which is precisely the supervision of its implementation, i.e. ensuring the quality of control of law enforcement, and which should be the role of the State Inspectorate. So when you get a report on the monitoring of air quality which significantly deviates from those acceptable, and you don't have the information whether the pollutant is sanctioned, whether it is directed to implement some measures, what it has done today and how it behaves today in relation to these results, then you don't see too much sense to appoint you and oblige you to follow or write action plans and monitor their implementation, ensure the conditions of its implementation, or their implementation, determine the locations where the measurement stations will be set, etc., etc. And she said colleague Mrak-Taritash that unfortunately the State Inspectorate as a very important institution in this country faces a lack of personnel. Yes, with a huge lack of personnel, he's facing it. However, although I firmly believe that even in available personnel at the State Inspectorate, in most cases, we are talking about quality, professional, working, honest, unsumptive personnel in the vast majority, there are cases where such situations, deviations from acceptable results of air pollution, but also from all other environmental segments, are simply dealing with some sort of deal and agreement under the tables, which none of us can influence. Well, well, someone here earlier found, simply a polluter, that moment if it went public, that it crossed a line that was acceptable, a little bit stopped that pollution, and then when the storm went quiet, it continued on its own and without any sanctions. I will take the opportunity here and indeed appeal to the Ministry of Economy and the sustainable development responsible for the monitoring, protection and conservation of the environment and nature, to do everything in its power to make this particular documentation which the Ministry oversees strong enough that no state inspector on any corrupt basis can ignore or play it. Let's not make Croatia just statistics, let's not write laws just to write them, let's not employ people in such important places just to hire them, let's not just decentralise obligations without financial decentralisation and do our job, not only declaratively, but really in order to protect and protect and the health and quality of life of citizens, among whom we are and live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108972	The next club of representatives will be the one for a fair Croatia, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108973	... Honored Secretary of State with Associates. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, information on air pollution in Slavonski Brod is included in the chapter of human rights and the environment in the annual human rights report in Croatia for 2021, houses of human rights, centres of knowledge in the field of protection and promotion of human rights. The report on air quality monitoring at national network stations for continuous air quality monitoring in 2021 DHMZ is also devastating. As of early 2021, the Ombudsman's report on the right to a healthy life and climate change points out that the principle of sustainable development is insufficient in Croatia, given that environmental protection requirements, including the right to clean air, are often put on the other side of social and economic development. Although Croatia shows its numerous strategic documents in principle its commitment to low-carbon and green development in line with EU requirements, the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, adopted in 2021, shows a lack of ambition and political determination, and in some segments and discrepancies, contrasts with EU development. On the occasion of the publication of the text of the proposal for an environmental organisation strategy, they pointed out that it cannot read whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to include the principles of justice in the energy transition process, including the EU, a mechanism for a fair transition, for example to provide for workers in sectors that need to be decarbonised and mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of transition. In the middle of 2021, the Waste Management Act was adopted, which also transposes parts of the European Single Plastic Directive, which prohibits light plastic bags and some single plastic objects. The surrounding associations stressed that this law fails to provide orientation and transition to multiple use and recharge systems, not only replacement plastics to other disposable materials, which would encourage a truly circular economy. Part of Croatia's population still has access to our water to meet the basic needs of life. According to official data, the possibility of joining the water supply system in Croatia has 94% of the population while the connection is only 86% indicating that 14% of Croatians still have inadequate access to water and drain. After an earthquake in Banovina, part of the population still does not have access to healthy proper water because wells used are damaged or their containers are not yet connected to the water and drain. Problems with inaccessible or out-of-date infrastructure have mostly fewer units of local self-government or areas of special state care as well as public water service providers which lack financial and personnel capacities to address the problems listed. The adoption of a Regulation on service areas from the end of 2021 is a first step towards addressing these problems in the coming period. In 2021 preparations were continued for the implementation of the project of the construction of the Kosinj hydroenergy system. A fair fee for the extradition of residents of the area has been determined on the basis of evaluation elaborates, and the fees offered are extremely low and are not adequate for the resolution of an alternative housing solution or alternative economic activity in the form of contributions from the defence of land, land treatment. In view of the fact that it is a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, the competent authority for the enforcement of the enforcement procedure is the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which, despite the fact that the delegation will result in a large number of people being evicted, is not subject to the basis of the specifically adopted law as laid down in the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation. Individual exemptions shall be carried out instead, thereby increasing the risk of discriminatory treatment of individuals or groups which may result in a higher number of populations in the position of social exclusion and poverty. The experience of environmental organisations in the context of the epidemic and in 2021 made it difficult for citizens to participate in public debates on environmental impact assessments, as there is still no possibility of online commenting on spatial plans which negatively affects the participation of citizens in decision-making of public interest. We still lack effective prevention measures, environmental damage and population health, particularly adequate measures to reduce the pollution of the Adriatic Sea and air pollution. It is a particularly worrying situation in Slavonski Brod where the pollution index on several occasions pointed to extreme air pollution, which is as much as 10 to 15 times more polluted than allowed. According to the European Environment Agency Slavonski Brod, it is 3 places of the worst cities in Europe for air quality, and bad air quality is also recorded in Zagreb. Due to the unsustainability of existing dumps, their environmental and local health hazards and insufficient information on how and the importance of waste disposal waste management is a continuing problem in Croatia. In 2021, the negative impact on environmental protection also had an incorrect delay in the use of disposable protective agents, masks and gloves, whose use increased during the epidemic. In addition to inadequate waste management systems, a common problem remains insufficient infrastructure for wastewater treatment and treatment. Due to violations of EU waste legislation, the Waste Framework Directive and the Waste Depositors Directive at the end of 2021, the European Commission sent an official notice to Croatia and called for adequate waste treatment before its disposal. The incorrect application of the waste disposal directive leads to a greater risk for the health of citizens, greater environmental pollution and unnecessary... economic material when disposal of waste that can be recycled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the delay cannot be avoided, Member States must take measures to ensure that only processed waste is delayed and the investigations carried out have shown that in Croatia the shortcomings in this regard require that they have been identified at all existing sites, and that municipal waste is delayed without any processing. In addition to the already existing environmental damage in the event of the absence of any observed deficiencies, Croatia before and payment of large fines. In 2021, Croatia did not engage enough in cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries to protect the environment, outdated thermal power plants in neighbouring countries remain operational, affecting the environment and health of people in Croatia and in other EU countries. After the absence of an agreement between Croatia and Slovenia on the joint storage of nuclear waste from NE Krško as the most visible location for the future storage of radioactive waste, former military Cerkezovac is considered in the border zone, i.e. the municipality of Dvor, one of the poorest municipalities in Croatia. The process of choosing the place of disposal of nuclear waste is non-transparent and there has been no consultation with the local community. The plans failed even after a devastating earthquake in Banovina with an epicenter just a few kilometers away from the planned location. Finally, they can commend the addition of the infringement provisions in the proposal of this Act in the part relating to the punishment of responsible persons in units of local self-government, in units of regional (regional) self-government, that is, the City of Zagreb and the state administration bodies in the event that they do not ensure the implementation and financing of measures to reduce air pollution in the established, which are set out in the action plan to improve air quality and do not ensure the implementation of air pollution mitigation measures. I also commend the addition of the infringement provisions in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in local self-government units or the City of Zagreb, unless a report on the implementation of the air quality improvement action plan is ensured or the implementation of measures from action plans to improve air quality is supervised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108974	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108975	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Climate change, but industry has also done so when it comes to air quality. Many European countries have been determined to deal with this by seeking solutions. In previous discussions, we heard from my colleagues how much polluted air works on people's health, and that's what my citizens from Slavonski Brod know best. So today we have a debate on the final proposal of the Air Protection Act. Subject law will remove ambiguities in the area of the adoption and implementation of action plans to improve the quality of life. The 2019 Act, which is currently in force, has made mistakes and therefore joined the creation of this more effective legislative proposal, which shows that stricter provisions related to the competence of local self-government units and the City of Zagreb are being prescribed. For the implementation of measures and the definition of action plans in the section relating to the punishment of local leaders, unless implemented. Through further detailed content, form, modes and deadlines for the adoption of action plans, which will clearly define the measures and effects that should result in the achievement of the thresholds. The legal framework related to the standards of small household dwellings will be further harmonised. When it comes to testing laboratories, we see that this reduces employment obligations in part of the work experience and qualifications of workers who will work on air quality monitoring jobs. The proposal for a law regulates the issue of granting consent to the Ministry of Buying and Using strictly restricted products that deviate from the limit values. In fact, this is about colors and elbows used to paint older cars, or oldtimers. This proposal also determines the competence and responsibility of all stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans. The responsibility of the Ministry shall also be determined in the part of the adoption of action plans to improve air quality by giving an opinion on acceptability. The obligations of stakeholders are clearly defined, and it is prescribed that in the event of non-execution and implementation of measures and failure to meet the objectives set will be followed by a process of amending and supplementing action plans. Furthermore, the minister will regulate the content and format of the action plan, the way and the procedure of adoption of action plans, the obligation of the unit of local self-government and the City of Zagreb to adopt, monitor and implement them. Infringement provisions in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in units of local self-government shall be complemented in the event that they do not ensure the implementation of those provisions. The legal framework relating to the entry of data of storage and gas turbines and the conditions to be met shall be governed. I come from the town of Slavonski Brod, a city that has been stigmatized for years and perhaps just because of an under-quality interpretation of the provisions of the existing Law. These changes will contribute to a more transparent presentation of data, but also to better and better quality action plans that define the source of pollution, the size of pressure on the environment, measures and deadlines that local self-government units will have to take to reduce the effects of these changes. For years, the level of polluting substances has been recorded on several occasions in the Slavonski Brod area. The causes of these pollutions came from several sources, refineries from the neighborhood, but also from industrial plants, transport, barracks, waste dumps, gas stations and other sources. So as Brodjanka, I welcome any progress in our legislative framework that will reduce the impact on the environment and allow all my fellow citizens to have clean air. But the situation, when it comes to Slavonski Brod, is complex, and part of the pollution comes from neighbouring BiH, of course, will still need talks to come up with a solution, and certainly also the intervention of state bodies and ministries. I would just like to point out that the current obligations will not be increased but that the new duties are already being taken over by this new law. As between the first and second readings, there were no substantive changes and the sequence of all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108976	Here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will speak the esteemed representative of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108977	I wish there was a minister here for the first time because the topic is important. But I'm probably going to adapt, see if I'm just starting to get by, so we don't want much of him in our role as the new minister. However, I must say that this topic is of great importance mainly because something that is most important and sacred and what we must keep is air, it is ozone, it is air mainly in the Republic of Croatia that has quite a well-preserved air except in certain swimming pools where we have a lot of air problems. But when we talk about air, then it's inseparable from sustainable development, because simply to have environmentally acceptable economic development, then we have to talk, of course, it's compatible. I mean, there's nothing we can do about it. I would just briefly mention here that, I said in the replica what is a major problem for people who live it is air pollution due to poor waste management in the Republic of Croatia. I also mentioned at this point very poor waste management, i.e. The collapse of projects that have been pointless in my opinion because Lečevica top of the Dalmatian mountain to have waste management is unacceptable to me because it will cause great damage to the air both in this area and in the drinking waters and this most significant resource that we have in the Republic of Croatia mainly on sources from where people in Dalmatia are fed, as well as in all Croatia. We also know the problem of the Marines, we know other problems of the waste management centre, and now we are in a situation, I said that some cities are simply forced, such as Vrgorac to transport to Sinj although the plates are much closer. I'm not happy about that either. I wouldn't want my waste transported to any other city, because simple waste management has to be based on what's sustainable. It's a waste disposal, that's the sortery, composing what we have to work with. And as mayor, I'm giving as much as I can as much as I can right now. We won't cry for lost chances, but we have to solve this problem. However, we have in Dalmatia, mainly in the Split-Dalmatia County, which is the largest county, which has half a million people, we have a huge problem with waste management, air pollution mainly in that pool where the very important development of tourism, ecology, there is the Adriatic, there are sources. So that's where we come into one of these chaotic problems. The other day, I literally had to run after a truck from Vrgorec, which travels 150 km. He's on diesel, an old vehicle that drives from Vrgorec on the highway, endangers traffic, 4 times more expensive to the Vrgorčana. And why it fell to the ministry or to Coric, I don't know the Minister of Environment so far, which is why he thought of it. I've been saying it all over again. I hope Minister Filipovic sees a little. I said he's still in the non-disclosure phase, i.e. I know that the triba adapts, but the triba reacts promptly. Not only did he play at the Alkar basketball club and send messages down that way, but he has to solve the problem. For what? Because that area and other pools, mentioned Slavonski Brod but that's another problem, mentioned the thermal power plant, mentioned coal, mentioned numerous influences, attempts by the Peruch thermal power plant, which we have barely stopped. So the threat of economic interest, which is why this ministry is kind of like fire and water. Economy and Ecology is incompatible with fire and water. How are you going to connect them? I mean, the simple fire can't burn when the water's in the fields, so this ministry is illogically composed environment and so here I'm talking about... the building, the economy, because there is a conflict of interest, a huge conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish the minister could hear this, and I wrote him a letter. I hope they call us because the air is at risk here and the water. We have a current problem with what ours are producing and endangering the environment, and especially when it comes to HEP, which produces electricity to save what happened to the gas. Now they've increased by 4.5 times the water supply price, i.e. pump stations. This is most visible down in the Dalmatian Zagora, mountain-mounted areas where the questionable liquidity supply of water 4 million cubic metres a year goes a million and something to the Split area and the hinterland. With two and a half million kuna from our HEP that uses that potential and resources. A cetina that produces 40% of hydropower and has great damage to the matter and threatens the air and everything we've had. From 2 and a half million kunas this year came to 10 and a half million kunas, and the total revenues of the water line are, the Cetinski region that feeds and part of Split are 22 million kunas. So half, so it's a liquidity question. The minister hasn't shown himself yet. Our HEP obviously wants to cover the government to cover local self-government and people on that ground, to collect the price and cover the costs of this crisis that has been caused us to see what's going on with the gas. Now, we're not going to let that happen if I stop in the car, protest, hunger strike, we're not going to let that resource of ours mean we're talking about the environment and air and nature and resources. As mayor, I'm sending a message as the majority water owner to other municipalities and cities, that I won't let the citizens, it's on all the water lines, so we know. It is likely that the mayors who are closer to the authorities will not be able to make it clear that the ruling majority will not talk about it. It is the same in Imotsko, three times gathered here in the Imots area, throughout Croatia, and mainly in mountain-mounted areas. And now you're gonna bring us in to get the key and say I won't give you electricity, no Split water. We'll jeopardize wages, liquidity. I wrote a letter again, and I will write a letter to the secretary of state if you can get in touch with the minister to have a serious talk because HEP is owned by the Croatian people and do not let the poor woman beat up the debts around the gas station that we have in Zagreb and elsewhere. It is not the people's fault, nor the cetins' end, nor the land of the mountains, nor Istria's fault. I've been giving solutions, so here to make a unique purchase and to get HEP to take over some of those costs, and not only the people and the poor local self-governments that I literally repeat, here in serious language these days, I'm going to talk to the whole mountainous area because that's the only way we can stop it, and now I'm talking quietly, calmly when I talk about air, when we talk about protecting the environment, that the water supply to households in the area of the mountainous and mountainous area where it's five times collected electrical energy or more than 400%. So here's another serious problem I'm opening up here once more, I asked the prime minister he said to contact the minister, but the minister went to college and to pay at the CNB if he went to 50,000 kuna, now he's worried about these people's problems in the area. That's one of the big problems. I know you can say you've gone off topic, but I haven't gone off topic since hydroenergy in the Republic of Croatia gives the most Cetina River, 40% hydroenergy, three times more Cetina's RH's energy than this Krško nuke gives. And now you're going to collect five times the water with 2.5 million kuna a year. The currents the pumps are pumping into, and that's a huge problem for people. The Prime Minister took my question here unrelentingly. The minister was on his way out, so he laughed. And I'm sending a message to Minister Filipovic about a problem where water supply, drinking water will be compromised, companies that care about it will be running local waters where they will be questioned about their liquidity, literally pay and the functioning of the system. You can't transfer everything to the locals, to people to raise their water prices, you can't hep it. Can't whoever's exploiting it do it this way. So once again about the air to be talked about, to improve, Croatia from certain bases on large urban units and these problems Slavonski Brod and of course the industrial costs that we have here in Biljani, we have in Omis that also release certain things into the air, we have to guard our air, we have to protect our environment, we have to develop economically. All right, whatever the triba is, I'll take it, and I'll just switch everything to local self-government. As mayor, I'll make all the action plans, I'll talk to you whatever the triba, but all local units have that capacity, and I can't implement it. ... has one comparison of 40% of local self-government units with no financial capacity to provide for one kindergarten child, let alone these release action plans. It's the senselessness of our structure, our county and all that we have, but that's another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108978	The next club of representatives will be the green-left block, and Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak of the air topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108979	Don't worry. I know what the subject is. Yeah, okay. [[No, no, no, I didn't mean you.]] Thank you very much. So, first of all, we'd be informed to the public that the new minister should be called an extraordinary professor of science, so that's how we saw it in the media, so here's a colleague just to know how we should address him. When he comes, it's supposed to be his request to be called that way. [[Intruder Reiner: Science, I guess.]] Okay. So in our first reading, we commended the shift in the fight against air pollution, and then we said that we would support this bill, we say, and now for the importance of this topic, of course, that we would support it. But here we regret to conclude that our remarks or our proposals have not actually been adopted, so we will now repeat them again, and some of them will also be made in the amendments. So this is the Commission's May 12th, '21. It adopted the EU Action Plan towards achieving a zero air, water and soil pollution rate, and, unfortunately, in the context of the European Green Plan, which is not mentioned in this proposal in addition to the Air Protection Act. So let's say that the plan sets out the main objectives of reducing pollution by 2030 and the EU is directed towards achieving the 2050 target, so this would be a healthy planet for healthy people especially in improving air quality, in order to reduce the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution by 55% to 2030. The plan lists a number of initiatives and measures including the following, harmonising air quality standards with the latest recommendations of the World Health Organization. We are all familiar with the fact that pollution is the main cause of numerous and mental and physical illnesses and premature deaths, especially when it comes to children with certain health problems and, of course, older people. And people living in poorer areas very often live near polluted locations and in areas with very high traffic flow. And the non-toxic environment is also crucial to protecting our biodiversity and eco-systems because pollution is one of the main causes of loss of biodiversity that reduces the ability of the eco-system to provide a service such as carbon sequestration and air and water decontamination. We know all that, so we regret that it's not there. According to a recent report by the European Environment Agency on health and the environment, air pollution in the EU every year causes more than 400,000 premature deaths, among others, from cancer. There are no easily searchable data on negative health impacts in Croatia. It is estimated that only of the floating particles we have about 1,000 premature deaths in, annually in Zagreb, and for Croatia there is an estimate of between 50 and 150 per 100,000 inhabitants of these premature deaths. Here, all of this is unfortunately here we regret that there is no such thing as, oh, there is no word on that action plan. In a public debate, the Andrija Printar Educational Institute made several remarks that most were adopted, but it was rejected about the inclusion of biological particles in the law. They're for example. Allergenic plant species, allergenic plant species that emit pollen and slow, so these are natural air pollutants. Based on scientific facts, the risk of the impact of these factors on the health and quality of life is increasing and has a special impact on urban environments and the economy as a whole. In the EU, the economic burden is estimated at 7.4 billion euros per year for the invasive plant species ambrosia. So a pretty clear argument that such pollutants should be included in this law. And that's why we're proposing, once again we're going to try to put it into this bill through the amendment. DHMZ then made the same observation about paragraph 4. Article 7 of the applicable law. In this regard, DHMZ has received a commitment if it will not be able to carry out modelling tasks for the purposes of professional analysis of the data necessary for the preparation of the action plans set out in Article 54 of this Act, it is obliged to ensure that these transactions are carried out without delay. However, it is not clear who they would have ensured there, this implementation of these, these jobs since it is not known whether there are at all institutions or private companies that have a modeling system that could be engaged to this end, until the end of the RQ project, which will complete the modelling system in full operational preparation, so we first talked about the senselessness and, therefore, that article, but now we will try through, through the amendment. We also regret that the objections of the attorney general have not, have not accepted this because the Ombudsman has been very actively involved for years in the problems caused by air pollution and, of course, related legislation with these topics. We are also in the first reading to advocate the need to explore, co-finance research and include indicative and innovative methods of monitoring air quality in modelling for the purposes of assessing that air quality. Therefore, the development of technology enables citizens and citizens' initiatives to actively participate in air pollution monitoring in their local environments at reasonable costs. This proposal now mentions citizens and associations without any indication of how to participate actively, so we propose that this be done. We will propose an amendment to make this a little more specific so that they can be actively involved in monitoring air quality. Here, so with the amendments, we will try to get our proposals into this bill, but regardless of the importance of this topic, the Green-Left bloc club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108980	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108981	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing the final proposal of the Air Protection Act. Namely, the problem of preserving and protecting the air and the fight against pollution and pollution is one of the key problems of today, one of mankind’s key problems, and indeed this issue requires special attention and a comprehensive action by all. And when we take a closer look at what we as a state are doing on this matter, it's easy to come to the conclusion that there's a lot of room for repair. So we can very clearly say that by all the participants in the implementation of activities in order to improve air, we see a lot of unseriousness. Fortunately, a good part of Croatia breathes in the air of acceptable quality, but unfortunately those cities and places that meet with polluted and polluted air show all the inconclusion of all those who should be part of solving this problem. And just as cities such as Kutina, Osijek, Zagreb, Sisak and finally, to the greatest extent of Slavonski Brod are clear examples of insecureness or if you want clear examples of inaction. As far as the Air Protection Act itself is concerned, if we really look at even the current current law from 2019, it is good, so the last change was in 2019 when it was separated with climate change topics. Even earlier, the 2011 law was good and acceptable and it was completed and updated, amended 3 times, but in itself it was as good, as it is now these all proposed changes. How much the proposed changes are now good or not will actually remain a question because even when we put them into the law, there remains a question of what and how much will actually change in practice and how much the law itself will actually affect the real improvement of air quality in Croatia. Now we have a good part of the articles that are being exchanged. They are in line with EU directives again, but the key thing I want to say is that we can pass any law, we can bring it to major or smaller changes, and we see that this law is quite often changed, so 5 times in 10 years, we can further make the best ideas, but the key remains that in practice our citizens do not have that kind of security that the quality of air in these critical cities is any better. And of course, citizens don't really have the security to make sure that air quality doesn't have harmful effects and harmful effects on their health. So it is already known that the European Commission is constantly warning us that the air in Croatia is poor quality, i.e. The third worst air in Europe in Slavonski Brod is precisely, and that is precisely why it is amazing that we have been missing some basics for years. the most fundamental measures that would contribute to reducing both energy efficiency and actually reducing greenhouse gas emissions. So I'm going to highlight some of the measures that are lagging behind. Here we know that there are concrete claims in Slavonski Brod that pollution comes from traffic and from home bars, and if that is so that we would actually establish a clear mechanism for achieving energy and environmental objectives, we should say that it is insufficient and that not only can energy recovery measures involve the restoration of public building facades if we are in fact one of the largest polluters of transport and home bars. Therefore, to a greater extent, funds must be targeted at targeted needs, in this case reducing air pollution in the area of a specific city, because if the cause of pollution is home lodges, then it is unseriously as it is invested in energy recovery and changing the way of heating of households that are allegedly crucial here. Not even those minimum measures announced have been implemented. I'm thinking about the energy restoration of family homes that's been missing for a few years in a row, and we know that by actually implementing such a measure, it would achieve energy savings in final consumption, and in fact it would reduce the emissions of particles during the heating season. So, except that the support for the energy reconstruction of the houses is missing 4g. The question is whether we are looking at the implementation of measures aimed at some areas and of course we are not looking. Here I primarily think that the percentage of the subsidized part, and now in the finally published public calls for the restoration of family homes should certainly be more favourable and higher precisely in these cities that are struggling with polluted air, so the ratio of 40:60 in these places that are here on a monthly basis actually exceed the annual limit values we believe that the co-financing ratio should be at least 20:80. As we listen to the claims of pollution comes to the greatest extent from home lodges, the question is whether we give our citizens protection or an opportunity to work to improve it. It's hard because once again, although a possible subsidisation of central heat system connections has been promised to households that would encourage the use of the least-emission energy source of particles, such a proposal has never actually been realised. In addition, we also know that, given the price of gas by next season, much of the citizens will be warmed up by the economic crisis, so there is no movement either. When we look at the traffic that is also listed as the main reason for air pollution, we even have some effect here even though we have not yet reduced the tax on new vehicles, nor are we overly encouraging the purchase of electric vehicles, but we are not as insecure as a state in this matter. And why do I say that? So here's why we can say that we at the Social Democrats Club have the assumption that in Croatia probably fuel prices may affect the issue of air protection and the fight against environmental pollution, because here maybe the price of fuel from 14 kuna is actually the method of encouraging the use of alternative means of transport. If we weren't completely insecure about reducing air pollution from traffic, we heard here, for example, yesterday's dissatisfied taxi driver who can't actually drive. We must not provide a service, a taxi service with a vehicle older than 5 years, so we have these active measures, and on this example we can say we are concerned about the environment, but again on the other hand it is only an indication that measures are taken when they are directed to be applied by citizens then they are enforceable, they are immediately current, they are in force and they are immediately punished by those who do not respect them and that is to be clear fine. But on the other hand, if institutions do not apply and implement what they should do, then that is simply the way it is. So, for example, a taxi driver in parallel to that in the same country in the city that is often, very often more polluted than Beijing, we don't have a study of air impact on human health, the Air Quality Control Committee is meeting despite daily excesses, and here we meet literally every criminal year, and the Ministry and the City are constantly transferring balls and are struggling for years to actually make it less likely to solve that problem, and then of course we can say that we see a large amount of indifference because the law is very clear when it needs to be respected by citizens, but it's not for institutions. And so we note that, apart from passing the law, we must count on its applicability and we must work on its implementation, and only when we start to solve the issue responsibly, not in a way that things themselves are going to happen, will the citizens feel that we are taking care of them. If we do so with these changes and additions, or if we do so only by changing the way the institutions think and making them more engaged, we will see it. Finally, the proposal for a final Air Protection Act has not changed significantly since the first reading, it is, in all elements, a fact that national legislation is in line with EU legislation, and we have stated in fact in the first reading of articles and items that could be better arranged and that we have then made the ambiguities that could result in law enforcement, and here we have focused our attention on Article. 54. that you have left unchanged regarding the responsibility of the leader in initiating and implementing the action plan. And finally, here we have heard today, and we all know how important it is when we talk about air quality, so we have the goal and obligation to plant millions of trees annually until 2030. So I'm going to take this opportunity to say that we have one very useful plant, a hemp plant that absorbs more than four times, four times as much carbon dioxide as any other kind of tree. So here's the thing: We're thinking about that, too, given that we have a proposal for the Social Democrats Club law actually on the wider application and legalization of this plant. Finally, here our citizens deserve clean and healthy air and here we hope that the implementation of the law will be raised to a higher level and that the activities of the ministry, here we have a new minister of this portfolio, we hope that it will be much more seriously accessible to this topic and that in fact the activities and all related institutions will answer the question of the quality of air protection against pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108982	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a short break up to an hour when there will be a statement on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives. MEETING AT 12:47 A.M. We will now return to our point of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection of individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108984	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we will once again return to this extremely important law and in principle we have a relatively good legal framework, problems arise in the implementation of our laws of control and, of course, always get stuck around these financial means, but in this law, I think it is important to raise awareness in principle of the importance of measuring the quality of air and taking all possible activities in order to bring this quality to a satisfactory level. Once again, I will return to this report by the European Environment Agency, which, indeed, needs to be strengthened by all of us, that awareness of how important it is to work to improve air quality. So I'm going to repeat that these external costs are really extremely high, they're being maintained at different levels and in different branches. Now, as soon as you say two billion euros or 15 billion kunas, that's huge money, and that's what they're saying, which means every year we have 5,000 premature deaths due to poor air quality and the worst of the year that number is growing, I think we should all be encouraged not only to think but also to activity. I'll remind you of the crown numbers and remind you of everything we've done to make these numbers as small as possible. For all measures in the coronary epidemic of the virus, 45 billion kunas were spent, 15,000 deceased were, if we look at this, this is a very serious situation, here we just make a parallel with what has been in these last two years, and let's first start by means of as many measurement stations as possible, and again I stress, those that will be in the state network, because here in this apartment I've had a little talk with people from the ministry, these are not simple measurements, for these have to be people who are qualified, who have the necessary knowledge and experience, certified laboratories, so it's not just not just set up a measuring station, but also to maintain, all of this requires not only financial engagement but also the engagement of people who are trained to do so, and these are not small funds when you look and initial, but also in continuity every year, but it should not only require us to be discouraged, and once again I'll pull out the parallel with all the resources that we know that we've been in terms of space, and we've been able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to operate. other activities, I mainly think about waste management as a pollutant, and this suggests that it is one segment that needs to really pay particular attention in all segments, and it is good that it is in the competent ministry and the management of waste and air protection, so it can be done complexly to solve it, and once again I will just repeat that while we do not have this strong state network of measurement stations we cannot expect then these action plans will be in line with what our citizens really need, they are walking, walking from Belisce to Valpoov because we see here I will mention once more the citizens of Belisce who are once again 21.5. have their own not knowing what to call it, it is not a transparent march, they are walking, walking from Belisce to Valpo's because these are two wholes that are closely connected to point out this problem, and they will not stand, I only hope that the local authorities will not have been able to respond with the problem of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108985	We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108986	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues Vucilović, here you mention in the area where you come from there is a threat from polluted air, in which I come from there is also a threat to the health of the population from polluted air, and we are talking here today about a bill that clearly says that the effectiveness of air quality protection and improvement is ensured by HS, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and representative and executive bodies by units of local and regional and regional self-government within their own, but also by this law of certain jurisdiction. Agonia with polluted air, specifically in Slavonski Brod, lasts over 13-13.5 years, who do you think is responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108987	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108988	Well, thank you very much, dear colleague Vukovac. Indeed, what is passing through the citizens of Slavonski Brod is, you have used a good word, it is agony that lasts too long, has also been associated with the Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship, now that, the influences are different, are obviously responsible more or less everyone. Here I would not single out anyone, but the initiative cannot come only from citizens, and those who are in charge at local and regional and national level each of them in their segments will do whatever is possible, which is appropriate and will ultimately get results so that citizens of Slavonski Brod will finally have the air quality that, which will not be a threat to their health, they do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108989	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108990	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vesna, I have followed your debate on behalf of the club and, of course, the detail you mentioned is very important, the air is a component without which there is no life. So it's very important what kind of air it's going to be, it's often not contactable, we want sometimes industry, we want jobs, of course the pollutants are always present. But the problem of Valpova and Belišče is really well highlighted and I support the story. Why? Because that story lasts long, technology has made significant progress in the last 30 years and over and there are things that matter. I think those people who live near these industrial plants, and even by the waste dump they suffer damage and I think they need help, citizens' initiatives are great, but we need solutions that will be permanent and that will really make conditions and conditions for life better than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108991	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108992	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanovic, I can only say that I fully agree with you, namely this is a problem which is also here and in Slavonski Brod takes a very long time and it is something that has to be solved and no one has anything against industry, but the industry is good. I often talk about the relaunching of Croatia, the re-industrialisation of Croatia that is necessary and possible in this era of deglobulation when industries from the Far East are returning, but it must be in line with all those regulations that are valid in the EU and that are suitable for the 21st century in which we live and which must mean that they also respect the right of citizens to the conditions of life that will ensure their health, and there is air quality that is extremely important. So I agree with you completely that everyone needs to be properly done, we need to start from that measurement station first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108993	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108994	Dear colleagues Vucilović, how you comment on the fact that we have about 5,000 premature deaths in Croatia annually due to poor air quality or pollution, according to the European Environment Agency, and that very little is said in public while on the other hand, I get information on how many people we lose from Covid. Why not pay greater attention to environmental pollution and generally such cases?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108995	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108996	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Pavlichek. Listen, maybe when it comes to air quality, then there are no public procurements that are under great secrets marked as secret, very secretive. There is no supply of any, no, protective equipment, vaccines at prices I do not yet know, and then perhaps it is not so interesting in a country that is at the perception of high-level corruption in the EU, it is not something that can be ignored in this debate, but that air quality is also a threat to the health of our citizens, and perhaps at the same level if we look at the number of premature deaths listed by the European Environment Agency and that all of this must be taken very seriously and pay particular attention to it at all levels, it stands, and I also pulled the parallel with this epidemic, which was, the coronary virus, is paying attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108997	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108998	Thank you very much. Here, I would mention one topic that is, marginally passing, which we see is that the air is important, I don't think we should stress it, being particularly smart, clean air. But lately, because of the use of various chemicals, especially in agriculture, such as glyphosate or cidocor, to make it easier for people to understand, we happen to have a great killing of bees. All the hives on, basically literally extinct bees. So that's where there's more questions. What happens in Croatia in this case, the bee? Is it a cidocor, i.e. Glyphosate, did I give the ban law, or is it too much electromagnetic radiation that bees lose, uh, bees lose orientation in that way? Here, so I'd ask this question to you, too, bees like... Of course and competent... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u108999	Thank you. It's not exactly about the air, but the esteemed representative, Vucimilovic, responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109000	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. You have opened a question that is extremely important and the fact is that we have already asked Minister Vukkovic when she was on some other issues, but it is a serious problem that is repeated year after year, and that is more or less what I am following, in certain areas, is it not? They say much more professional than I do for that area that when such things happen, they really point to problems that can be different natures. I'm not an expert on this area, I wouldn't dare make any findings, but if it were a very serious problem, I fully agree with you and I expect the Ministry of Sustainable Development, but also agriculture to take action to find the real cause of this serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109001	Representative Bulj has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109002	Thank you very much. Vice President, you've hurt an officer. 238 where you disrespect the MPs. As far as we know, bees fly through the air, there's all kinds of things in the air, bees die out, which is why a large number of hives, that beekeepers know. There's a lot of damage to beekeepers, and I don't know why you say I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We have a large number of bees fatigues, and I think it's because of the problem in the air, it doesn't have to be, but the problem is with the air, i.e. using pesticides and air pollution. I think so. And what you think [[Okay, like this.]] You've got your speech free and you're talking. [[Intruder: Please, enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109003	You're done. Enough! Uh, I was very tolerated when you were talking, I didn't respond at all, and you were mostly talking about everything else except this one, the air. So, uh, this now, I didn't even give you a warning, I mentioned that you spoke a little off topic, but I let you say that, I even let my colleague Vucilović answer, etc. This is completely wrong that you just said, you called the wrong article, and you get a warning. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109004	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, distinguished representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues. Contaminated air and climate change are key risks for preservation [[Invasion: You will continue to throw from the bench, colleague Bulj?]] [[Don't be nervous. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109005	Don't you get a warning again, be polite. Be nice here, this is a meeting room, if you didn't know. Here's my colleague, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109006	Thank you very much. So the key risks to preserving human health are more effective air protection than various pollutants. We will certainly mitigate climate change that is one of today's loud global problems. By 2050, the EU wants to achieve climate neutrality or become an economy with a zero net greenhouse gas emission rate. According to the EU Report on Clean Air Prospects, the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution is likely to decrease by 55% by 2030 compared to 2005 if Member States implement all the measures envisaged by the existing EU regulatory framework governing sources of air pollution. Therefore, we must take the obligation and responsibility to achieve climate neutrality requires the action of all economic sectors, while the levels of economic sectors, such as energy and industry production, have decreased since 1990, the levels of emissions produced by transport have increased and these emissions now account for more than 1/4 of the total emissions of greenhouse gases produced by the EU, 70% of which generates road traffic, which means that the city population is the most exposed air pollution since today 75% of the EU population lives in urban and suburban areas, air pollution in Zagreb, etc. To the ship and other places, other Croatian cities are seriously jeopardising the health of citizens. In the implementation of the Law on Air Protection, the need for provisions under the responsibility of the Ministry, JLS or the City of Zagreb and concerning procedures for the adoption and implementation of measures from action plans is seen and will certainly contribute to reducing air pollution especially in cities. In the transport sector, investment in the railway sector is important to us as an important, significantly weaker air pollutant. In this 10-year period, we've been focusing on the railroad, and I expect that we will succeed in the benefit of the economy, of course, but also in reducing air pollution. Maritime and air transport activities result from greenhouse gas emissions and major air pollution. The air sector is one of the sectors most affected by this coronavirus-19 pandemic, and this certainly favoured air quality, but not so much the business of airlines and in this transport sector we need to set more ambitious targets for emission reductions. Air pollution caused by maritime traffic has a major impact on the health and mortality of EU citizens, we need more effective measures to regulate maritime transport, port cities face additional pollution due to ships themselves, but also cranes and various means of transport in the port area. The harmful effects of ships on air quality continue, unfortunately, as it will increase as the sector grows in transport. Subject law harmonizes and improves the provisions on the implementation of inspection controls to ensure better control of the quality of ship's fuels, namely ships like we had heard from the Secretary of State more than 40 gross tonnes when they enter Croatian ports should have fuel or if they do not change their fuel in order for them to use and fuel with a higher amount of sulphur, and now that they are on the link they will have to use fuel with the minimum amount of sulphur or the largest amount of sulphur of 0.1%. The aim is to enable us to adopt and implement quality action plans, which will result in more effective measures and implementation to achieve the prescribed limit values. And here I would point out in the end that the provisions of this law clearly define the obligations of stakeholders relating to the implementation of measures in action plans to improve air quality. I hope this will remove the ambiguities in the area of the adoption and implementation of action plans to improve air quality, and by prescribing stricter penalties related to jurisdiction will result in better quality action plans, but also greater accountability in implementation. In the end, everything needs to be done by speeding up air pollution reduction trends and by ensuring prescribed limit values that will not have a negative impact on human health and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109007	He has several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109008	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cosic, you know best from Slavonski Brod which is to have a dangerous plant or a dangerous factory in the immediate vicinity that pollutes the air itself, and yet so little jurisdiction and jurisdiction at that factory since it is in another country. Today we have had the same incident now on the Slovenian side which is also close to our border, our places and our cities where we have seen what such an incident can do for the quality of air not only at the place where it happened but also directly near, and it is specifically here in Croatia. By your example from Slavonski Brod, I think control and such laws are not enough. Co-operation and international acts and certain international agreements are the only, only way to solve such problems for Slavonski Brod, but here is the area of what we have in Slovenia if we know that the air has no limits and we can hardly control it when such a thing happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109009	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109010	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Namely, the severity of a case at the border that can always happen from a neighbouring country is the issue of cross-border cooperation. It is easy to do so in the EU when the laws are the same and similar for all those measures being implemented, but in the town of Slavonski Brod bordering BiH, which is to say both economically and politically in one big problem to implement all measures to protect people living on the other side of the river is a little harder. So the town of Slavonski Brod is more than 9 years old. The Croatian State and the Resolute Ministry have also provided and established a commission that met to solve these problems, however, it has gone pretty badly and here, unfortunately, because of the accident that we have received somehow that protection of this air to say because of the accident... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109011	There is also a respected representative of Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague and you, like most previous speakers, have referred to the quality of air in Slavonski Brod. In fact, we are aware that most of this pollution came from neighbouring BiH, or from the refinery. We were able to read from the media that the refinery was gassed and that it was still being remonted, but unfortunately the air quality of Slavonski Brod remains unsatisfactory. Do you think that the local community should, among other things, install some of the measures to move freight traffic from the centre of Slavonski Brod to the border crossing of Svilaj jel by removing cargo trucks from the centre would greatly reduce emissions of harmful substances from traffic that directly affect air quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109013	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109014	Thank you, colleagues. We all know that pollution in our town in Slavonski Brod came from the side, to say the Bosnian side of the refinery. It was a huge air pollution by the sulfur and, of course, the floating particles that came from the inappropriate fuel in the process of this processing and oil, and as far as I know it was made, the gas was made and we wanted all of us on this side and all of the NGOs, and here I think that refinery is modernized at least by their stories and by some European standards, so probably, every industry has one pollution, it's in some ways tolerable. As far as this border crossing is concerned he can be eliminated anyway and now something's done and at this point he's been built there, you remember, you see that stop track for trucks, that the trucks are resting, that they're not waiting on the border with the engines on fire so they can get to the border on time, and let me say from both east and west of our city, our city is located customs crossings that are... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109015	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109016	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, here's a clean air is a prerequisite for a healthy life and God was just there we all have the right to air, but depending on where we live such air and breathe, so the difference here is to mention Slavonski Brod or, say, Dalmatian islands that are certainly more quality. We clearly need to develop industry, we need to create technologies, but we also need to use this as modern as possible to make the air less polluted. And now my question to you how much we're able to do when the inspection comes out on the ground, discovers that it's not healthy and good for life, how much we're able to take care of it and what we can do, we can actually do there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109017	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109018	Thank you very much. Here is, of course, that inspections work in incident pollution, in regular tours, controlling environmental permits of various contaminants but what is first and what is important and why this law is essentially done by which there were no good, no quality, and perhaps no action plans to reduce this pollution. Now the units of local self-government as holders of the programme, the action plan together with the ministry have been given the task and here's to say more responsibility and more punishment that, if they don't do so, they're recording all the contaminants, to write down all the measures to reduce this pollution and all the things that I have to say bring these improvements and benefi that together with the state, with the ministries, with the contaminants themselves, if it's industry, that the sooner I have to say and the developed environment, but also this one worthy of people's life and the healthy lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109019	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109020	Dear fellow Cosic, therefore, you mentioned several of these environmental problems that will be addressed by this law, I would like to, perhaps here is a warning to you, and not actually to the promoter that some of the renewable energy sources are not so renewable or not ecological. For the production of one solar power plant or one wind power plant in production, more CO2 gas is consumed than this wind power plant or solar power plant brings to the end. So maybe less CO2 gas could be produced through some kind of gas power plant. These are one of the problems that should be, or here, I call on the actually resolute ministry, and I want to hear your comment to think about this problem, to go one step ahead, to have a lot of Americans talk about this, to have a number of research, not to actually help themselves harm everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109021	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109022	Well, here's a colleague, namely the sun's energy has gone into green energy and, and we know the consequences of both batteries and all the solar batteries to tell a panel that in 20-30 years' time will become the same waste and I don't know if it's enough to worry about it, but we need to get rid of traces of carbon in the air that are really the biggest pollutants. Of course, aside from the solar energy here in Croatia, we have plenty of room left in the exploitation of our waters, but here we are from, to say from our independence from the Croatian state we have made think of only one hydro power plant, and we know we have great potential. I think that's where I should say a lot to work on that potential, one sustainable water management because we know that other countries not only use it for drinks, but when they drink that water, they recycle it, and they bring it back, and we're running it, and as energy potential goes on. Is so there's still room for renewables, and this part is there and...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109023	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109024	Thank you very much. Since you're coming from Slavonski Brod, of course you're familiar with the big problem and you live here it's air pollution, we know what was going on across the border was, was a problem and it was difficult to solve, but still now that the refinery is not working we still have a problem. But here I would be the key question of all these advantages that we have in this law that we are promoting is the question now and the implementation, if we all spent it together together, I would ask you a few questions. You said that a great impact on the life, health of people and inhabitants of Slavonski Brod, do you perhaps have information about whether some knights claim that it is not a question of the bee and the animal world probably these pollutions affect the life of flora and fauna, and especially our bees that are very important, so do you have any information from your beekeepers about how much pollution has affected bees, the bees that have died because of the polluted air, and you have more and more and more tired bees even under unexplained circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109025	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109026	Well, thank you very much for asking, I have no specific impact on the health and work and everything else and the propagation of bees as much as these contaminants that are currently in the town of Slavonski Brod, but I'm sure it affects everything like you said on flora and fauna and affect both the water and the air and this and the groundwater floating particles that fall on that ground. So I'm sure it affects everyone if it affects people's health and lives, and that's how it affects plants and animals, and as it stands with bees, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109027	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109028	Thank you very much. Here, we've been talking all day about a very important topic about a law that promotes certain things. that we all have some action plans together. Of course, there is now a question, as I said, of local self-government that has the potential. capacity as the Secretary of State has said that the ministry will jump into these action plans, agreeing to see essentially those critical points as I have said from waste management. My colleague Zekanovic mentioned forests that also have to do with the air just as they have connections and bees because... Incredibly someone says that bee murder has nothing to do with the Law on Air Protection, but they get the titles of Knight of Jerusalem's Graves, essentially more knights than Istanbul's trademarks, is that, however, it is a recognizable sign of this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just say once again that it is very important to keep the flora and fauna and influence, not only on human lives, when we talk about Slavonian Ship, when we talk about people living at waste dumps, as I have listed, Mojka in Sinj, in the Cetin region where a large number of people live in that part, and of course it has an impact on, there are increased numbers of various diseases in relation to other areas where we do not have this and of course it is visible and, of course, not only people have a huge problem but also flora and fauna, and mainly, I have mentioned the bees because in recent years, and especially in this year, we have a great tired bee, and we know what they mean in the bio-ecosystem, that they are the main polliner, that simply, without the bee, there are not simply the whole ecosystems that would be disturbed and we know what would happen in this matter. In addition to the energy that we often mention, agriculture is one of the problems of air pollution. There are illegal funds, such as glyphosate, which, behold, I have given the law in the procedure, and already many European countries are trying to stop it, Austria has even voted not to use it, I will explain it all, here in the cidocor, we know what remains behind the cidocor, and what it means for air if we treat, we know, here, where soy in South America, there people are born with severe diseases, they get sick, and that food, that soy is brought to Europe, feed on cattle and it affects us. But it also affects the air. So we didn't ban those preparations, i.e. and in agriculture what we use and I simply don't understand why. But if Austria started it, I understand because Monsanto is too strong and we allow it in agriculture. We have to talk about energy, of course, contaminants, of waste, of these green ones that will happen after one period, whether it's solar energy, whether it's wind power plants, that after a while it's going to have to go down literally that it's going to have to be removed and that it's going to have to be delayed properly because they can do a lot of damage. But I would once again raise my voice, and many beekeepers have called me to ask, so here, once again I ask the secretary of state, I have some information that has affected bee fatigue and people are really in big trouble, it's extinct all the hives, just people can't get to the swarm anymore. All beekeepers are literally, most of them, a lot of them are in big trouble. This raises the question of whether it affects electromagnetic significance in the air when setting up new technologies' base cells, whether they're disrupting the air. We have, do you disrupt the functioning of bees in a way that normally functioned as they always functioned in the system, and that's one of the problems that we need to discuss well because we know that bees are important, and mostly in agriculture, but otherwise, without the bee, the ecosystem is disrupted, that cycle would simply fail. So once again I stress the importance of preserving our people's health, we have a problem with Slavonski Brod, we have dumps, is that, Croatia is in the wrong direction about waste management, the waste management centres, I mentioned to Lečevica, whether, unfortunately, the missed project that spent money has not been made either, we are now in a huge problem, so I said that we are polluting the air, we have to solve it, that's your part, the secretary of state, that from Vrgorca 120 km in one direction and in the other direction is carrying garbage by a truck that is on diesel and which is old and essentially polluting the air. First of all, it is not acceptable that, first of all, it is 4 times more expensive for the Vrgorčana, and the problem is not solved in this way. So once again, I'd give attention here first of all to a man, but there's not even a man without an ecosystem and here, without those little drones, a bee. What is the impact of air pollution, is there any information or anything else? I'm, uh, here's... [[Intruder: Honored Representative Shashin.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109029	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, here you are really often talking about environmental issues in the Republic of Croatia and I welcome it and I really, really think it's good. This one mostly in your neighborhood where you know the situation, and so on. I am interested in your position, but what is more precise about what you think or whether you are in favour or not against nuclear energy as an alternative, i.e. one of the ways of the source of energy in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109030	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109031	I mean, when I'm talking about nuclear energy, I can just say and say what I'm saying all the time, I'm not an expert in that area, I'm more green energy, we have the sun. We have wind and we have wind, but not in this way to encourage foreign investors through incentives to be... And we use the least solar energy, 0.3%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as nuclear energy is concerned, my position here is clear, only green energy, around the nukes I am not the most professional and the most complex nor would I personally, my, the club support probably because there... Some in the Bridge, I have no idea, I'm not into nuclear energy because we have a lot of solar energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More Maribor city uses solar energy than the entire Republic of Croatia. More Finland uses electricity through solar power than the Republic of Croatia, and we have space for it in the Republic of Croatia, we had for, I mean, it's even a social question where independent families have to generate energy, if we let them have electricity on their roofs. I'm for solar energy and environmental energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109032	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109033	Your Honor, I'm not advocating nuclear energy, but just to draw your attention to one fact. So the solar energy, i.e. springs from the sun power plants on the grasses, relative to the source from the nuclear power plant, which is over 50 years old are more expensive 5 times, and the source from the roofs is the same solar energy more expensive 3 times. So we need to think about it a little bit when we are going to talk about it in the future and see what Europe will actually do and how it will react. Of course, we don't have to follow her into everything, but that's our problem now. I have a question for you. You are the head of local self-government and the secretary has just stated the facts of the Law, which is that the local self-government leaders will actually be responsible for the adoption of action plans. What stage are you in with the adoption of this action plan and what do you expect in terms of the cost of adopting this plan and later implementation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109034	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109035	Well, of course everything is being transferred to local self-government is not only about this law, but also about the Agriculture Act, but also about what's going on, everything that hasn't been resolved in the last 20 years that the Croatian governments haven't solved is being transferred to local self-government, and action plans are being transferred to local self-government. And of course I will absolutely do anything to protect the air in my area. However, we are forced by those who impose an action plan on us not to carry the garbage from Vrgorec to a populated place, a densely populated place, to delay us from Vrgorec 100km from Sinj to delay that waste because they have no other solutions. So they expect us to do an action plan, and basically because of what Sanader, HDZ or I don't know Bacic is managing HDZ made of Lečevica they want to do damage unimaginable to water, damage unimaginable to air, and damage unimaginable to waste management that we will all have to pay, and millions have already been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109036	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109037	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed vice president, the esteemed secretary of state. I already pointed out one problem in the replica of the secretary of state, and that problem was highlighted by my colleague Bacic. So it's about a promise, and it's about our obligation to plant a million trees a year if I'm not wrong until 2033. Well, I'm talking well, so here's my question, whether it's concrete right now, I didn't get a concrete good one, I'd like to maybe if we Secretary of State found some time here with the pay phone a little bit more detail about it because what we all know is that the trees are a very large air purifier, and we have an obligation. I personally in the field since I've been following these things a little bit more closely, I haven't noticed any shifts, and I'd like to see it run according to the contract. It's also another thing, and as far as your ministry is concerned, specifically about this bill, but here's the need for us on this side, so your associates can hear it one more time. In Primorje Croatia, especially in Dalmatia, we have a huge, too big problem of pine brushes, pines of ancestors and horseshoes. Here we have heard of the Marjan Park forest where the underpass is successfully solved in a way that several tens of thousands of trees have been removed, unfortunately except Marjan no point in Croatia, and in Primorje Croatia has been treated, rehabilitated, none of the points have been answered responsibly to the hard, none of the trees except the city of Split and Marjan forest park. I would like the ministry here to have its own influence with knowledge and experience, even some legislative regulation, to force local self-government to launch something. We have a major problem, perhaps through the Croatian forests. As far as the ancestors' pine trees are concerned, here I am in some personal communication to the assistant minister, and here I am going to say here from the pay phone. In particular, the significant landscape of Vidova gora on the island of Brac there often looks like a Sahara at the moment. So, the trees are decimated, the most beautiful forest of black pine trees in Croatia, the most valuable pinus of pines of the ancestors. We have a formal legislator or ministry said we have a public institution that cares about it, but there is no means, no knowledge, there is no place to take care of, because I'm going to repeat that from the beginning the thesis to stay in the topic, the woods are very important for filtering and air purification. Two more brief notes, here's a colleague of Shashin's mention of nuclear energy, let's not hesitate to talk about the subject, let's not. The French, Germans, Great Britain all talk about nuclear energy and all move towards building, planning, designing new nuclear reactors, especially in the context of the new economic, economic, energy crisis. It is if we ignore Fokushima and Chernobyl one of the safest, purest forms of energy, the cleanest and safest. And I'm going to say one other thing, which is also very important, for the production of a solar collector, those materials that are used there and the technology used in the production of solar energy collectors are consumed by more CO2 gas, or more CO2 gas is produced than is actually produced by substituting with a godless ecological energy source. Inform yourself, the Americans are here now for a real major study and there is now a big turn in thinking green energies as my colleague Bulj said. And one more thing, someone mentioned home bars as a problem, there were all kinds of ideas, and here I am again about America, a few years ago in Los Angeles, they were all banned, first they tried to ban a whole barbecue on Sunday weekends, so there was a revolution because on Sundays there was a dark cloud over Los Angeles where there were hundreds of thousands of barbecues that were roasting and then they realized that it wasn't really a problem in wood or coal, but it was a problem in the means of arson, some kind of base I don't know gas or oil again, and then when they banned those assets that cloud was gone. So, let's not crash it, let's think about it because that's what we'd actually do would do something counterproductive again. Here's so much on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109038	A few replicas and your exposure. Honorable representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109039	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, just a little correction to these millions of trees by 2030. and that's not even a problem because Croatia's forests over nine million seedlings work annually, and these millions of new seedlings should be right for urban environments if we have seen and now excessive construction especially in tourist resorts where you and I are and there simply needs these millions of new trees to come. And I'm glad you brought up Marjan, but since he's a little time away, I'm glad that Mariana's having a recovery, but the recovery started and stopped in 2019. Not that it stopped her, the trees were removed but he took out that factor and it's just the muzzling of Marjan. Marjan looks like a disaster now, but I'll leave it to you, I see he's lifted up your line of colleagues, and he'll know better, so he'll probably refer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109040	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109041	Thank you for the correction. So it's not 2033, it's 30, and this is the same danger. So the Honorable Secretary of State doesn't happen by accident that these millions of trees are actually trees that we were supposed to plant regularly. And then when they're new trees, they're extra trees. The second thing, let's make me a pioneer step, meaning something new, and that's until now, for example, Dalmatia has been rumbling with allephic pine wool, which is a good pioneer species, is good at creating soil, so it's good at penogenesis. But let's experiment now for example with... with an oak black man who is in fact the only real indigenous tree of that coastal belt and who is much less prone to fires. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe we'll do a double benefit, and I'd like it to finally start. Maybe just for a little while. Who's going to smoke? As a child, an eight-year-old forested a hundred times, maybe there's these kids hired through school, something noble and well of course with a supervisory vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109042	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109043	Your Honor, only one small addition if it can be tied to a pine pedestal. Borov's tooar is not only dangerous for pines, it's dangerous for humans as well. I don't know if you knew that, but his caterpillars are very dangerous to people because they cause severe allergic reactions. It would be good to get... Our fellow citizens where that too man appears not to touch it by accident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I wanted to say something else. Namely, when we talk about air cleanness and when we talk about filters that clean it better than forest cleans the air of hemp. It's clear to me that you can't plant hemp in this area, but you might want to think that you're out there somewhere in the back on the unprocessed agricultural surfaces of the hemp crew four times better clean air than the woods, and it's also cleaning the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109044	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109045	Dear colleague, thank you for your rep. It is not just a pine brush, too harmful for humans, or potentially dangerous, where it can cause allergic reactions but also for animals. There have also been deaths especially in dogs that have been sniffed or eaten by dogs I don't know any caterpillars who have died because of a pine father or pine brush. Besides hemp, the sea is an even bigger purifier. Plankton, the sea is also the largest manufacturer of oxygen, and there it is spent, or exploited, carbon dioxide, so that the forests are in third place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109046	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109047	Thank you very much. My friend Zekanovic, you reminded the trees. I agree with planting trees. We have this problem that here's a lot of cutting trees like they're turning into pastures. So we're getting back into it, whether we need cattle or pastures. I think we should plant the trees mostly in urban parts. As you know when you come to Sinj to the Great Lady Sinj has huge parks and lots of greenery. Urban environments should be as much concrete as possible, the more they should be trees, and that's very greening, and that's a very important issue because we see that greening disappears in large cities and urban centres. So I would support you there and that there can be a lot of local self-government units. Also in agriculture, for example, in the Sinj field were once poplars that protected them from the storm from wearing the first layer of hummus, so as not to carry the highest quality land. And now there are funds here from EU funds where you can make lip paths through a field, where you can smell trails, so I think the ministry of the triba is to build and protect agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109048	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109049	Dear fellow Bulj, there is a problem with the succession, i.e. the cultivation of the grasslands, the meadows of the trees. I know, for example, two specific examples of where this is a problem. It is North Velebit National Park and Kornati National Park or North Velebit National Park, the meadows that are the most important habitats because they are the most diverse, the forest is surrounded and the trees must be cut there to preserve the grasslands. And in the Kornati we have recently, especially after the fire, because the aleppo pine pyrofite means the lone pine forest so that professional services in the Kornati are tormented to keep the Kornates as they are, which is why they were declared a national park. So it's very complex. I'd just like to talk again to the promoters here, and I'd like to create finally some fund of finance, where local self-governments would apply for shaming and urban space first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109050	Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109051	Dear Mr. Representative, thank you, Mr. Chairman, you have made it very clear that quality management is also one way of developing the same. In the town of Split, we faced long-standing unhappiness and desertion and absence of forest cutting. It is now cutting down forests according to the management plan and running by the profession that helps rebuild them. And I can't agree with Mr. Bačić's finding that he may have made a mistake in his efforts to call the rescue on Marjan and the situation disastrously. On the contrary. We allowed the forest to develop, and I believe that the authorities of the future city of Split who are responsible for the Marjan Park will take care of the quality implementation of the management plan. And I end up with a master plan. It is a document that professional services, primarily Croatian forests must work, not run from it as they have done for decades in Split and other forests. It is precisely their reluctantness and escape from responsibility that endangers what is most valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109052	Thank you. Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109053	I'll agree with you. The forest can be restored, meaning some kind of anthropogenic work. It means by affecting a man, or by planting. Nature can be allowed to recover itself. It's always better this second, but this is faster first. It's actually supposed to be a combination, but let the waist say so. But here's what I'm gonna say, and this time I'm gonna tell the proposer again. We have this plan a million plus trees in the main urban areas. Local self-government, and now I'm participating in Sibenik, too, through local self-government, they have no idea where to go. Sibenik is a serious city, and I guess we look like Split, we look like Zagreb, we look like Sinja there is Mayor Sinja with us. So by emergency let's go through the rebalances and find the means to say the directions for the noise. So, I'm responsible for saying that it hasn't yet turned to that extent, and it's very important, it's very important. Both for aesthetic reasons and for obligations towards, according to the EU and of course environmental.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109054	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109055	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague and colleague, for the beginning of this truth we may have misagreeded to our former mayor, Split, congratulating the recovery of Marjan, whom he found a very big problem in his mandate and the 20,000 trees themselves, which were attacked by this subordinate and it was one big problem for Split. The recovery is extremely well done, but I always compare Marjan as Marjan was now two, two different park woods and so little soul pains to see Marjan that he is so little naked and lacks that shaming and lacks agreement of the normal and Croatian forests and today's government of the city of Split that we now have no thanks to the former mayor who resigned and I believe that the new power, that one of the first projects will be exactly the Park Marjan forest as the lungs of the city of Split. We are fortunate to have both the sea and the mountains, we have a high-quality concentration and wind and quality air so that perhaps for now we do not feel the problem of Marjan Park, but God forbid any changes would be in great trouble. As far as the subject is concerned, air protection, I, as in the replica, will use this bill to mention what is before me something about climate change itself, as well as the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, which we also accepted at the last UN summit and in some way promised. It's these million trees a year until 2030 and the year, but all the promises the world leaders made after seeing both the Amazon and the excessive, excessive deforestation when they saw what they were doing on the planet is a global agreement that by 2030 they would still need to reduce the CO2 footprint in the world, but also the use of coal and heavy, heavy assets in our industries. The prime minister then said that Croatia will watch and take nature protection seriously. I wonder today although very little time has passed for several months, I wonder how much we have taken this message seriously and how much we are trying to protect both nature and the environment and to live healthier in the Republic of Croatia. As a small country that doesn't have some excessive industry, I think we have a very high-quality and good challenge ahead of us, and we can simply be champions in Europe as far as environmental protection is concerned, because we don't use excessive coal, we only have this Plomin power plant that we've committed to shutting down over a few years. I've had a strong battery and electric vehicles industry, so I'm also asking myself, "The Ministry of Economy" what I've often raised on the subject, but when we want to be champions in batteries and in electric vehicles not only cars but also ships, I'm proposing here, and I've been proposing for the last year that for example. We also cancel VAT on electric vehicles because I think Croatia will not have problems with the industry in the future but will have problems only with the traffic itself. And this very, very easily can be solved in several moves of the consequences of tax policy and it will not feel the state in its budget is there any other way in which these deficits will be compensated. As far as these millions of trees are concerned, I must definitely point out that in Croatia it is not even a problem. We have 9 million seedlings annually that Croatia's forests restore our forest area, over 48% of Croatia's land is covered in forests so that we are a very rich forest, rich country, but these millions of trees are important as a message and it is important for our urban environments. I therefore hope that the Ministry of Tourism will also include whether we see excessive apartmentisation, we see excessive construction in some of our cities, and less and less green areas. We must also make our cities mandatory, as well as the people who are engaged in tourism and who are building and villas and apartments that a certain percentage of their area definitely must, definitely have to be wanted and I must definitely stress it because we also have a Croatian reconnaissance parliamentary union, I must stress to you the Croatian Scouts' Union that has been lulling Croatia for years, which helped Split and Split-Dalmatia County after those catastrophic fires and managed to resuscitate the burned area in 3 years. Now they have a project along with Boranka. The project COMPENSATING BY PLANting so that I hope that most of our cities, the company will include reducing its CO2 footprint and thus helping Croatia but also globally the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109056	And we have a series of replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109057	Dear fellow Bačić, here's another thank you for reminding us once again of the importance of the forest in air purification. And here I am today, maybe four and five times, going to say the same thing, I'm going to call the competent ministry, and I want to hear your opinion about making some kind of action plan, guidelines, instructions, and finding financial resources for that famous humbling that's being talked about to clear the air, and that's what we're talking about today. People on the ground, local self-government really don't know anything, they really don't know anything about it, and a million trees aren't less than that, that's a thousand thousand, is that enough? So here's another thank you to my colleague Bacic. And can one of your comments on this is that you need to do it right now and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109058	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109059	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Zekanovic, for the replica, I absolutely agree with you, I think that we need the ministry to encourage this is a large ministry that has a lot of themes and a great diapazon of action so that sometimes certain segments can remain suspended, but we live in times and green transitions, we also know the Green Action Plan at European Commission and European Council and European Parliament level, and I think that the coming decades are precisely in sign, in sign of both green and shaming and environmental protection. I repeat Croatia has all the preconditions as much as we complain on one side that we do not have industry, that we do not produce certain products and certain things. On the other hand, it has now become our big plus in the coming decades and we can definitely be champions in Europe as well as air quality, the quality of water will not even mention but the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109060	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109061	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. Well, for 50 and more years now, we've been witnessing shaming more or less successful or greening of Dalmatian debris. Unfortunately, all these years, this has been done with a sea and aleppo pine which, unfortunately, are very invasive species and which, unfortunately, have a very negative impact on the biodiversity of these habitats. Namely, with their needles, waste needles create ideal conditions except that they acidify the soil, create ideal conditions for fires and at the same time disable any ground floor in these forests and these surfaces. My proposal, or you too, would be to try to go as far as possible with indigenous species, the evergreen species as oak blacks, black clarity, etc. That way they'd turn green, but also protect that area from fire. In a way, it would all get a lot, a lot more sense, so I'd like your opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109062	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109063	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Shashin, for this comment and question. I can agree with you even though there should definitely unite the profession because working on a little and on a project of pine and shaming Split and the surrounding area after these fires exactly and this example that we have in Marjan Park is where the problem arises. The profession will not say that it is divided, but Croatian forests have some kind of plan, so someone always gets involved from the profession, so it says it is not good, it should be some other kind of planting. I agree with you, certain areas require indigenous species especially when we look at the harsh terrain of Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Burn where nothing can just work. But I repeat, there should definitely be a Croatian forest to take primate because the ministry and other associations that, for example, are involved in shaming them are calling for guidance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109064	Thank you. The replica has Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109065	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I would only briefly say that here those who should master the i.e. The forests and which have professional capacities and which we pay for are Croatian forests. Here I would agree with my colleague Krstulović Opar where he said that Croatian forests, I will quote in my own way in fact my opinion beats the devil out of the incense. It is essentially theirs to take care of Croatian forests were the lungs of care in terms of quality, in fact to keep it in the best way, not to run away from it. Split can have it under himself, it can... However, Croatian forests are the ones who have to take care of the maintenance of the Croatian forests, not those who wash their pylator hands, and therefore 30 years is the biggest culprit that has happened on Marjan, as is happening in other forests are Croatian forests. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] Here is absolute loud support for your colleague, i.e. our colleague Krstulović Opari. This issue is clearly and loudly repeated regardless of the political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109066	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić Thank you. [[/Intruder Bulj: This should be clearly and loudly repeated regardless of the political option. They pick up a lot of money, and they wash their pylor hands, and local self-government hides it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109067	... I can agree with you not to wash hands of anyone when the topic is environmental protection, you should neither defend anyone, so that Croatian forests can also be on the basis of this debate which they did, which they did not. [[Specially enabled.]] Since we've been working together a little bit together to keep them normal and praise them in some things and to tell them a lot of things about the shaming and the relations cutting and the maintenance of the forest, there's not much we can tell them. But what you have commended to your colleague Opa and what happened to Marjan himself and that jurisdiction that falls under the forest plan, which belongs to a certain city, the municipality, which the Croatian forests have put under their control there we can debate very much. Many municipalities, cities are dissatisfied, many municipalities and cities cannot circle certain areas because they are in the forest plan. So, I'm in. Let's open this debate, we don't need to save anyone here, nor the Croatian forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109068	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109069	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I kind of keep on saying the words of my colleagues here and before me. Namely, there are more and more complaints in a special way in the region of Dalmatia, that the domicile population is disabled in the memory of any kind, it's not about any tree trade, but it's always been about people who have used it in this area, so let's call it the graces of a controlled cutting. But what's going on? Croatian forests have received a lot of video cameras, a lot of technique and hop immediately the foresters grab, immediately fines. I don't think that's the answer. Because what's being created? Otherwise, there is a jungle inaccessibility of roads. So when there's a fire to do much greater damage. I'd like you to comment on whether you're in favour of an organized cutting and whether it's also coordinated with the domicile population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109070	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109071	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Brcic for his comment and my question. As regards the organized cutting and in general Croatian forests and in general the forest plan itself, and what is included in the forest plan, we have heard from many municipalities and cities in particular Imotska krajina, as well as Cetinski who are unhappy, not only about organised and controlled cutting and the use of the forest space itself from the domicillal population, but also about the economy. Many municipalities and cities in our region, especially in Split-Dalmatia County, could not round a few hundred squares to offer it on the market or to enlarge the area. Why? Because it belongs to the maquis under a forest plan that may be passed every 5 or every 10 years. As for the self-organised and controlled cutting of absolutely Croatian forests must be on the ground and must listen precisely to both the mayors and mayors and the domicile population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109072	Thank you. Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109073	Dear Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Bačić, I commend the direction of your debate, indeed the topic is more than interesting and important for the present time, especially for those of us who are leaders in JLS. In Velika Gorica, with the first spring hangings, we set out for urban shaming precisely in order to reduce CO2 footprints, and as an alternative to what is happening in one big city and modern, which is concreteisation, that is the arrival of new residents and residents, which is logical when you talk about attractive environments, so I would also be interested in your opinion of how many alternatives and can exist other than urban shaming in large cities and how much financial support there should actually be from the ministry itself to all such actions that are more than praiseful nowadays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109074	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109075	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Ackhar, I've seen your action, and I've even been a little upset that you haven't called these scouts to help you, definitely praise you, and that's the plan. The plan is because I say it and I repeat the next 10 years will definitely be in the sign of a green transition and a green action plan. Here I see that some cities and municipalities deviate a lot from others, here we can take an example of Velika Gorica who knows how much is being built and how important it is as the periphery of the City of Zagreb and how many young families are moving in, normally on, to all of this built must be definitely green areas. I think what the Prime Minister mentioned and mentioned those millions of trees is precisely for that urban planting. We don't even need large forest areas, these Croatian forests are well controlled and that's not the problem. We have a large area of forest, but this urban, urban hammock, especially in tourist or larger industrial centres, it is certainly what we lack in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109076	Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109077	Dear Mr. Bačić, you have seen that in your debate you have heard from four mayors or mayors, people from the executive authority who have become very aware of their duty by acting on what is the lack of and ineffectiveness of the Croatian forests in the segment of the management of the same and maintaining them. And it's great that you said that this is a special topic, and I invite you to have this topic here in front of home soon to coordinate the activities of the Croatian Forests for the development of our forests for better air with this law that we are solving here. And let me give you a big confession, so to you scout scouts in actions that scouts throughout Croatia used to do in the woods. Deep, deep affection for you and the entire scout community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109078	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109079	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Krstulović Opara, I must not take this credit, I must leave them to the scouts, but thank you for the very first year we heard in HS about this activity of Boranka. After those catastrophic fires in Split and the surrounding area, we really included this one, you opened the door right away on the first day regarding everything and the organisation itself, and I think that it went immaculately, we have to thank the normal and Croatian forests, which were logically and technically very helpful, but without the city of Split and Split-Dalmatia County at that time would definitely be nothing. But this is great that you mentioned, just the leaders, the leaders of what is now, that the former executives of the local government, you know exactly what the problem, you know who you need to talk to, we're here to talk to, we can invite whoever we want, why not open any topic, and that's the topic of the functioning of the Croatian forests on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109080	Thank you. And now, finally, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Mosta will be spoken by Representative Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109081	On this subject is said everything, and here I would just end up saying that the shifts that we have in this law that you will need to implement both the local community and the ministry and all together to tribal to see and consider whether all local self-government capacities can be implemented, whether they have potentials and people, I said that numerous local self-governments, even 40% of local self-government have no ability to provide financial capacities for one child, means they simply don't have the opportunity to think about it because of the reality in which we live. And I would only say at this point that the listed forests are listed here as a significant air purifier mainly in urban parts of the Republic of Croatia, but I would also mention, not a triba to save, I agree here with colleagues that Croatian forests would simply have to do their jobs, take responsibility for the management and maintenance of these forests and these huge potentials, and not just to play with our balvans how to carry them out in another country, and in this way, in fact, to do great damage to us if we don't have those forests, even with what we're doing our jobs, but we have great damage to what we don't have an additional product, it's the easiest thing to do in Italy. As far as I'm concerned, here I mentioned them here and often mentioned the areas of the town of Split are Marjan and everything that happened bad about Marjan because of the debauchery and care mostly of those professional people who are in the Croatian forests and who would have to tell us what is going on and local self-government can manage it. However, the fact that I in my Sinj is whether you were all on the Great Lady or on Sinjska Alca you saw we have pine trees and beneath our fortress of the blue old town, we have Pavić's Heavens, we have Mednjak, we have, Sinj is recognizable by this greenery and we have to preserve it. There are also pines, diseases appear, but it simply embodies the devil from the incenses of the Croatian forest from the problem, it is as the devil from the incense, the code is not theirs, the code would be the local leader, so it is important to them to hunt, peanuts, weighting, how our product of our balvana performs from like in Italy or from Gorski Kotar so they also go to the sawmill with them and the additional value comes back here. We're talking about a serious problem, serious. I mentioned bees before, so there was a little conflict between me and the vice president, I think bees are important and that life and air are important clean, it's about Slavonski Brod, it's all about electric vehicles, it's all about everything. But when we talk about forests and it's well affected here, the question of the most professional ones who will maintain forests, who will master forests, is the easiest thing to take over, they take over what counterpart Brcic said, too, I would point out. So even when it comes to cattle that will take over as pastures, we have to maintain pastures, that's the part where we have pastures, where we can't get domicile people who live on this part, on that part to use these pastures, but in various ways that don't even know how to get pastures that don't know where Kameshnica is, where is Island, where is Sinj, where I don't know Lika, is Gorski Kotar. I would therefore once again emphasise the importance of all institutions. In this case, if we were talking about the woods... Of course, for all these problems that we cannot mention in 5 minutes then Croatian forests must be obliged that both Pavića celestial and Marjan will be controlled that they will be those who give advice on how to master it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter if the owner of the town of Split, it doesn't matter if he owns the city of Sinj, but they are the most appropriate and professional than they have no peanuts with no money, no weightings in the administration, no stories. You'll see how around the balvanies are busy around the exports, there you'll see that they won't give anywhere near, and there's no influence on local self-government. Don't wash Pilate's hands because that's where they invested in these people to get schooled, to get educated and to take over certain functions that they would have to conduct policies. And this porch, the triba is seriously opened because the forest is a great potential and for the protection of our air is very important but also economic potential, mainly air protection in urban areas and large cities because what is Split without Marjan or what is Sinj without Pavić's Heaven, I think it's a lot, a lot of stories we can talk about are these things. God forbid anything should happen to Marjan, it would be chaos, it's not Split anymore, either in my Sinj or in other cities. However, there are very few Croatian interests in the forest, and around the balvana in Lica you will see which is where the money is, where is the money. This triba speak publicly regardless of what political option we are HDZ, SDP, MOST, I don't know green, livy, red and it doesn't matter at all. It's a question of us and our people survival of people in these areas and of air storage, and here I am. agreeing with everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109082	That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We go to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils and financing public needs in culture, first reading, P.Z. Number 274 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I am pleased that today we can present in our first reading the draft Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. Introductoryly, I would like to say that, if we were actually working on this law before the pandemic was largely him, the working group was, to the most extent, the draft law had already been designed, but as for other legislative proposals, we estimated that at the moment of the pandemic in which culture, the area of culture was one of the most affected was not an opportunistic to go with the laws, whether they were deeply reformable or how we like to call this law that it was not, this proposal that was not a revolution but actually evolution. Evolution in the sense that we are, in fact, uniting three important rules with one whole law, the current Law on Cultural Councils, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture, which were, in fact, adopted or adopted for a period of more than 20 years, and it was necessary to adapt them to modern needs, and to bring some articles in line with other regulations. I am particularly emphasising the Law on financing public needs that has actually experienced so many changes that only a few articles remain in force from that law. Let me try briefly to express the most important areas that this law handles or deals with. So I'd like to start by pointing out, lady, we've actually been dealing with a lot of coverage and definition of public needs in culture. It may be important to say in the introduction that this law applies to both national funding and what is being implemented by the Ministry of Culture and Media, but also to the units of regional and local self-government, therefore equally to the state budget, but also to the budget of the units of local, regional self-government and here we are in this definition along with those traditional areas of public need, which have been as precise as those which are actually financed by those new, new areas which primarily covered and began to be dealt with by the Ministry of Culture and Media, and I believe that through this law this will also extend to the scope of what will be financed by local and regional self-government, which is accessibility, access, participation in culture, diversity of cultural expressions, entrepreneurship in cultural and creative industries, digitalisation or digital culture. So, everything we already include different or ad hoc or regular competitions from the Ministry of Culture, but so far has not been covered by the law. We are introducing a lot of provisions concerning deadlines and defining a public call for funding public needs in culture, and I think it is a big step and I will be very open here, in the first place we are talking to local self-government units that do not provide for this level of stability of funding provided by the Ministry of Culture and Media, so very often competitions for the current year, so this is also the case in some major cities are being questioned at the beginning of the current year, so absolutely too late to plan anything. The deadlines for publication of the results are then extended several months after the adoption of the local budget, and in this sense we have introduced certain provisions, which is that a public call must be called at the latest 1.10th year for the following year and so that the results must be published no later than two months after the adoption of the budget in order to sort of target the units of local and regional self-government towards the more stable financing of culture. The funds for financing public needs in culture are defined, which is also important that we actually specify which share of the budget must be allocated through a public call and we leave the possibility that a maximum 5% can be allocated beyond a public call. Again, this is not the case at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media, but some units of local self-government assign most of their budgets to some different ad hoc competitions or even without competitions at all, we believe this will also give security. However, we also identify the situation of threats when otherwise possible, and we learned this in our recent history, both in the case of covid and in the event of an earthquake. The funds for the work of institutions in culture are defined and we define precisely that the funds for the work of institutions in culture are not only material resources for material expenditure but we also clearly define software as what needs to be financed, but we also define other aspects of other parts that can or should be financed for institutions in culture. One big news is the possibility of real estate, which is something owned by the state or owned by local self-government, which has been a lot of debate and a lot of commentary and public debate. Namely, what did we see? For cultural areas, whether they are commercial or not commercial purposes, it is very difficult to compete in competitions with activities especially in the centres of cities, especially those which are tourist centres with e.g. cafes, restaurants, souvenir shops, etc. and then slowly activities that are extremely important for culture, e.g. bookstores, antiques, galleries are pushing out of the city center because the current regulations oblige you to compete commercially and that you cannot adequately ensure the purpose. So here is the idea that space can be provided for the purpose of culture, and then for that purpose is held a competition between those who will offer the best conditions, but will not, for example. one gallery to compete for example. with a souvenir shop or a bookie. The second segment of the law refers to the delirious work of cultural councils. In order to specify the scope of their work, the establishment of cultural councils at the ministry is more clearly arranged, criteria are laid down where cities or units of local self-government must or need or may have cultural councils, the situation in which a member of the cultural council is resolved is prescribed. Therefore, the Council's advisory function is precisely defined, but the public work of the councils is precisely defined by the publication of the minutes, which will also be binding on the Ministry of Culture and Media, as well as the councils at local levels. More precisely, the reasons which represent a potential conflict of interest of cultural council members are defined by the law of the obligation to exempt them from the discussion and decision-making in the event of the existence of these reasons, as well as the sanctioning of non-compliance with those provisions. We also provide for the obligation to comply with the declaration of signing a declaration in which members and members of the council are bound to comply with the rules laid down in this law. The possibility of appointing committees in the case of transversal and interdisciplinary projects is prescribed and there may be members of such committees either members of the council, any other invited experts or in combination. This is something that we at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media have been spending for years on all of our disciplined or interdisciplinary competitions and special competitions, and now we are introducing this possibility into the law to use it, especially if the needs of larger cities are. The composition and work of the National Council for Culture is defined, the decision-making process on the allocation of financial resources is arranged, so the decision-making deadline, the publication of the decision on the web pages, is regulated as to how the financing contract should look. What is new is also enabling multi-annual funding of programmes and projects to achieve the continuity of planning. We are already preparing next year for one part of our public call to the possibility of three-year funding. We will introduce this as gradually as we have gradually introduced a number of other reform measures because we believe that time should be given to the users of funds or to stakeholders in culture to adapt to these opportunities. However, one part of our public calls will be made possible for years to come. The monitoring of the dedicated spending of the funds of an approved financing contract will thus prevent double funding of the same programmes and projects from state and local and regional budgets, and a financial reporting obligation will also be introduced to cover the list of all revenues and direct and indirect costs incurred during and for the purpose of implementing programmes and projects, and this will contribute safely to transparency in the use of funds and control of their spending. It is also governed by the right of the grantor to terminate the financing contract. We are establishing a legal obligation for units of local and regional (regional) self-government to deliver reports on the implementation of public needs financing in culture within 30 days of the date of adoption of the annual report on the implementation of the budget. It's really one problem that the Ministry of Culture and Media and our Service of Analyticals are facing. We manage to obtain from units of local and self-government and some do not supply data at all, some supply half the data and do not understand the importance of supplying complete data, in order to process them and to publish them publicly and then provide guidelines to our cultural councils, but also local and regional self-governments, i.e. not necessarily guidelines, but information on certain trends. I have to say that he has this problem not only with the smaller ones but also with the large units of local and regional self-government. The establishment and management of cultural institutions is also arranged. The bodies of institutions, composition and method of selecting members of the Board of Directors, conditions and method of appointment of directors of institutions in culture, establishment of expert councils, etc. What I would like to say more finally, finally in this opening debate is that there have been a lot of comments on the public debate, which always makes us happy. We studied them in detail, and most of what we received comments about, we accepted, so this text that we came up with, which we came up with in the first reading, is quite different from the text that was proposed in the public debate. I would like to point out in particular that we have accepted proposals on the need for better definition of the concept of public institution in culture, we have accepted the proposal to prescribe the area of action of the cultural centre, there have been a lot of comments about it, and there have been good proposals that we have adopted. Then there were a lot of comments on this deadline for the publication of a public call to finance public needs in culture and the need to commit to budgeting, however, I do not think this intention has been properly read. Then, we had a lot of comments on the procedures of granting funds to institutions in culture by the founders and the proposal that the amount of funds be determined by a clear procedure with prior consultation with the relevant cultural council, which we also accepted and entered into this proposal of the Law. The public debate supports the introduction of years of funding. There have been a lot of comments on these issues of grant of funds without publication of a public call, which so far has not been arranged at all, so we have answered, or we have made it clear that this is simply about the need to determine what percentage it is, and not as it has so far been the case for 20 and 30% of the budget to be allocated past a public call. There have been a lot of questions about the allocation of real estate and space for work and transparency and we have accepted this proposal and we have introduced that the criteria will be established by the Government's regulation to make this procedure as transparent as possible. Then, the proposals concerning better definition of roles and the tasks of cultural councils were accepted by the majority. There were comments on the deadlines for decision-making on the allocation of funds. Then there was one proposal to adopt, or one proposal, but it was then supported by a series of organizations to better.../incomprehensible/... to adopt a special law that would allow the development of institutions that are not covered by a specific law, but we have actually addressed this by a clear description of these institutions, which is primarily meant by culture centres in the broader sense of the word, which is now introduced into the law. Then, there was a comment on the need to clearly define the tasks and powers of each body of the institution, so the director, the board of directors, the expert council, I think that, that this is good in this draft and we have not intervened in any particular way. We also believe that I am standing in that position both for this Law and for the Law on Archives, Librarys, Museums, and also for the law we are now discussing, which will only come to a public debate and then also for Parliament, the Law on Theatres, we are of the opinion that directors must have clear and precise powers. All responsibility is upon them, all responsibility is upon them and the administrative council must indeed be bodies that oversee, not bodies that meet once every 3 months and then, in fact, without real responsibility in some vague way, participate in the governance itself. There have been several proposals related to the number of members of the Governing Council, and we have actually accepted these proposals and defined differently the number of members of the Governing Council, i.e. the obligation to set up the Governing Council. Then, another important thing, the conditions for the appointment of members for the cultural council as well as for the administrative councils and the museum and councils and other administrative councils, we consider it to be a high professional preparedness and we do not agree with those who advocate that there may be those who do not have a high level of expertise, not in order to underestimate the possible contribution, but because we believe that there should be some dignity of the institution. Finally, two other topics that were in the debate, which we accepted, so the deadline for calling a public tender for the appointment of the director of the institution, we entered there to be at the latest 3 months before the end of the term of office and there was also a comment on the conditions for the appointment of the director of the institution, we remain in the position that the directors of cultural institutions must have a higher education regardless of the experience of working in culture because we are sending a message and the importance of artistic education to the highest level. Here are some, some of the basic elements of this bill, we will closely monitor your comments and debate, and hopefully by listening to your opinions in the second reading, we will adopt a draft bill, a bill that will really contribute to more stable funding, which is crucial for the work of both the institution and all those acting on an independent stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109090	Thank you, ma'am. Minister. It'll be a replica, it'll be a replica, but not right away. Yes, Mr. Sacic, you asked for a break. Let me just say in advance, a break can be asked about the point of reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109091	Thank you to the President-in-Office for informing me, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are just looking for a break if we consider it to be the most appropriate place and time to now express our deepest condemnation of disdain and at all incomprehensible behavior of our Ministry of Culture and Media, our Croatian Audiovisual Centre, and for the film "Once In Croatia" on the occasion of the birthday of our first Croatian President Dr. Franjo Tudjman, where he played double Oscar Kevin Spacey, and where it says in the report that the Ministry of Culture and Media of the Republic of Croatia and HAVC did not give one kuna for the project. I wonder which country we live in, which country Dr. Francis Tudjman fought, did the French do it to Dego, did the Americans do it to the eyes of the nation, did the British do it to Churchill, did the Israelis do it to Ben-Gurion Gold... ? That's the purpose of today's break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109092	Thank you very much. Of course the break is approved and we continue to work. Ma'am. Minister, you have a replica now, if you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109093	I will, of course, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109094	Here you go. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109095	Thank you very much. We see that the three laws are in one, so we have a huge amount of matter that you've brought together into one law, it's about cultural councils, it's about funding associations. Of course, here I am and as mayor I expect a lot of this law and we see some obligations, but I think that one law of three laws is essentially how much it's connected to one, I don't know if it's too much in one place, but obviously in Croatia, what more complicated law is it better that no one knows what it's going to do anymore. I would just warn, here's the minister and you and your position means we live in the society we live in, I read, I don't know if it's true that there's no advertising in the City of Zagreb "The Walk for Life". If that is true regardless of the gay parade, “The Walk for Life”, I have read that now, which is your position on it and if that is true, I would ask my colleague Tomasevic not to share people. He played for me this year in Sinj, and I fought to play both Thompson and Mile Kekin. So here's what I'd like to ask you to do when we're talking about culture, multiculturalism, acceptability, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109096	Time, yes. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109097	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So I don't think you have to worry and you'll very easily and pass through this law, it's nothing full of 3 laws in one, you read a lot and you're always thorough and you'll certainly improve your behaviour as mayor and be on behalf of the employees of the culture in Sinj either of those dear to our colleagues in many cultural institutions, either in, or those who act on an independent stage. As far as this second question is concerned, since you are constantly interacting, your party, here other colleagues, I am, in principle, always for freedom, for democracy and for respect, it is often not with you, there is not often in the colleagues you are calling, so I suggest that you discuss it among yourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109098	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109099	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109100	Wait, wait, wait, wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109101	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister has been injured by an article. 238th Insulting I.E. By disdaining the representative where he says that I am insulting, to belittle, no, so your conclusion of your government is that he can't drink in Sinj, not even Thompson during your imaginary covid certificates, nor Mile Kekin, but also Mile Kekin and Marko Perkovic Thompson. In Pula, for example. Mark Perkovic Thompson is forbidden to sing, and Pretty Brenna is allowed, I'm talking about it. I was talking about political attitudes, in Zagreb it is forbidden to advertise "The Walk for Life" that I ask you. You work well together in Zagreb, that is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109102	Thank you very much, it was a replica, it was a replica, you have, you have a warning and you have a warning because it was a replica. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109103	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here we will discuss cultural councils, their compositions, how to finance cultural and public needs of allocation of funds, etc., all of this is financed from public money. I'm going to ask you one question as laymanically as I see it as an average citizen. I am interested in your opinion on how in another town in the Republic of Croatia, which is the culturally richest city with museums, the galleries mostly have some permanent layouts, we have weak, poor roaming and out of individual festivals, smaller exhibitions, the Split Summer in culture is very little happening, and the potential of Split does not need to be mentioned as culturally as it is. Now I'm interested in your opinion whether it's a matter of low interest to the local community, a lack of interest in a particular cultural institution in the territory of the city of Split or simply a lack of money or, in my opinion, a lack of money. What's your problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109104	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109105	I can't agree with you. So I know the work of institutions in Split well, some work better, some work a little less well, but I think cultural workers, artists really do their best. What is important is to create a stable and secure framework for them and that is what will contribute to this law, to the adoption of this law. Here, Split is an example of what I said earlier. It was only in March this year that a public call was issued and the results were not yet published. That's the problem. You can't work, you can't create programs if you get the results of funding or you don't get them, now Split's in crisis I don't know how it's going to work out, but that means one failed year in culture and it's not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109106	Thank you. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109107	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as you have pointed out yourself by this proposal of the law, are in fact fully uniting 3 of the existing laws, the Law on Cultural Councils, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture and, in fact, all these regulations are being updated and adapted to the times in which we live. One of the newspapers that I consider extremely important is the regulation of the possibility of granting real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia or owned by units of local, regional and regional self-government to natural and legal persons operating in the field of culture. In fact, creating space for performing artistic and cultural activities in my opinion poses a very, very large one challenge for cultural policy. Among other things, because of the fact that through the accelerated development of commercial activities but also trade, tourism is simply growing and the value of the space that is located in the center of the cities, which of course increases the pressure on those areas, so please [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Your comment on this proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109109	Thank you, as I said, and in this opening part, this is really one problem which, which is a broader problem, he, I mentioned in the presentation of draft laws action, for example. gallery, antiques, bookstores, however, this article will also allow one systematic approach to the assignment of work space, so that neither local self-government unit at this point has any systematic access to which it would assign those premises. So, very simply you will be able to determine a certain number of spaces, especially in the old city core, here I am looking now and fellow Zekanovic here in Sibenik, they have actually made a very large amount through the heritage management society a friend of heritage in this sense of steps, so some perhaps abandoned spaces are arranged, assigned to artists, open them up in such a way and help artists, but also bring them back to life. The city center. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109110	Thank you. Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109111	Dear Minister, this bill is absolutely unacceptable for several reasons. First of all, there is no reason for any bill to be adopted and referred to in the procedure before the National Development Plan for Culture and Media is adopted from 2022 to 2027, as far as I know he is in the making, however, his creation is covered by a veil of secrets. The strategy must certainly precede the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109112	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109113	There are no secrets, I suggest you go regularly to the website of the Ministry of Culture and the media where we publish all the information, the information is already published about, about the first meetings. The working group working on the draft National Culture and Media Plan in the cultural part consists of members who make up the National Council for Culture defined by this law. Those who follow the strategic planning system are aware that the precondition for the development of the national plan was the adoption of the National Development Strategy. The Ministry of Culture and Media has produced one extensive material, which is some 500 pages now in the latest newsroom, which is an analytical basis for the development of the national plan. It will be very soon, during which week publicly published and so these are processes that occur parallelly and there is no No reason for this bill not to be discussed in the assembly. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109114	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109115	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Minister's Rules of Procedure sometimes doesn't exactly allow you to answer what you should, I'll go under the radar a little bit, explaining Mr. Sacic's pause left a lot of questionnaires above the heads of the parliamentary deputies here as far as I've been following, perhaps an opportunity to explain the difference between the culture ministry and the HAVC as an institution and on the other hand the dilemma of this film by Jacob Sedlar, where you are explicit tells you that you have not helped absolutely or that the Ministry of Culture and Media has not helped realize this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109116	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic, for coming to the assembly, it is not the first time Mr. Sedlar has deliberately presented the truth, then the MPs or Mr. Sacic or some others who are interested in this topic here and the untruths repeat, then of course, abandon the assembly, the complete untruth, Mr. Sedlar did not apply for the competition. As always, so he could apply for a production or distribution contest, he didn't do it, he knows very well that the Ministry of Culture and Media doesn't finance films, as shown by the proposal of this Law. That's what I wrote him three weeks ago, and no matter what, it's true again, and then we have these kind of MPs that still raise it to this level, they leave the assembly, they don't expect an answer at all, but here, it's some modus operand that we obviously have to live with in Croatian democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109118	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109119	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Here, I'm glad you united these laws into one because it's much simpler when it's sublimated and applicable to units of local and regional self-government, and of course for national needs. What I find interesting here, in art. 20 where you stated that units of local and regional (regional) self-government can respect specific needs and circumstances, in the area of culture, establish only one council for all activities and areas. So it's good for smaller units, where they can have one council or according to it here, as it's said, to step it up, here, let's say, we need it more, but in this bigger city and those who have more, so this is a good solution, because then, of course, we can track it better and direct it into actually culture. That's right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109121	Thank you for pointing to that article. 20. Yes, exactly, we have suggested that there is this possibility of establishing a council. In preparation of this Act, we have very detailedly analyzed the practice so far, I will remind you, the Law on Cultural Councils was proposed by then by Minister Antun Vujic and we have actually upgraded him very little over the past 20 years, but in his idea and structure he remains the same, and in fact he is in his idea and structure and in this consolidated law. However, we have seen that for smaller environments it is really difficult to find, especially enough experts, which will not be associated with some activities in these smaller environments. There is, of course, the possibility of taking some experts from other parts of the cultural council, from other cities, and then forming some ad hoc commissions, of course, all in order to make the allocation process as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109122	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here, I welcome first the improvement when it comes to transparency and use of funds, as well as one continuity of financial monitoring of certain programmes. But here, I'd like your explanation, maybe I didn't get it right, where double funding from these programs is disabled? In fact, we know that some cultural programs require, both longer periods of time and more generous financial amounts than they get from one source, so that it is divided often in stages, different paragraphs, so I wonder whether it makes it impossible for the participation of both local, regional and single ministry units in one programme, but in different paragraphs. Here, so if you can just explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109124	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109125	Thank you. Therefore, it is understood that complementary financing is immeasurably important. So, sometimes the Ministry sees what the local self-government finances, sometimes local self-governments watch what the Ministry finances, we always find ourselves with other sources of funding together, but this is about preventing funding of the same costs within a programme. So to be perfectly clear, when you get a consolidated report on all incomes and all expenditures, it will get a much better picture than it is now, rather than how it is now, when a special report is sent to one financier, especially the other, and it's actually very difficult to determine whether someone may have shown the same costs to both others, and here, in fact, the financial reports will be done consolidated and then we'll all have an accurate overview of how much they financed and how the programme was realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109126	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109127	Your Honors Minister. First of all, welcome to the assembly. We haven't seen you in a while. I have one question. In the proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture in the section bearing the title of the assessment of the situation, you stated that the basis of the law which is still in force was actually established by 8 councils. However, one council is written that this council has not come to life. It is the Council on the financing of international projects and that the new Law does not even provide for the establishment of that Council, i.e. simply to throw it out. Does this mean that so far there has been no funding of international projects and that neither will there be any or who is taking over?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109128	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109129	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. First of all, I have to express my satisfaction when someone reads the draft proposal so thoroughly that they even read the introductory text. If it's written like that or if you've figured it out, then we've got something wrong, and I'll read it carefully. In fact, the Council for International Cultural Co-operation exists now, and there will be a future. There have been some reflections on councils related to co-financing of international projects, however, international projects at this time so much that there is no point in a special council for such a foundation. However, international cultural co-operation councils also operate at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media, as well as at the level of most major cities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109130	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109131	Dear Minister, here I can say why I welcome this intention that these three laws of the machine begin to improve and since they are quite here and outdated and should have been updated, but here in this draft there are several problems, I will have one, one here in the replica pointed out, and that is so on. Introduce him, then, to call him the golden parachute for the principals. Therefore, a director who, after his or her duties as director or termination of the term of office, has the right to return to work or schedule to the workplace of equal complexity of jobs, who has been employed indefinitely in an institution in culture. So, he's waiting for him, the principal's waiting for the job he had. So how do you imagine that if he was employed by a private, not a public institution? So is this facility blocked, what's keeping his place of work open or how it is? How is that imagined? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109132	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109133	It is quite clear that you and it writes in the law the workplace is waiting if you were employed in an institution in culture. It is not any gold parachute, it is precisely the intention to replace the directors of cultural institutions in exchange for not knowing the director of the local water pipeline or something, as we see various politicians at local levels in city councils, to ensure that they have the right to return to their jobs. It's not really any gold parachute. On the contrary, we are convinced that we will encourage a number of cultural workers who work in some institutions in museums, galleries, libraries, archives to compete for a job because boredom if they competed in another institution they had to give fired, had no security whatsoever, and they were so I'll say at mercy [[Thank you very much.]] and the mercilessness of party arrangements or party plantings [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in city councils that often replaced them. [[Thank you, Madam Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109134	Thanks, it's a short time but we can't do anything like that in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109135	Thank you, Vice President. There's a question of respect for the ministers, so this may be a technical question, so please, yes, answer it. In what correlation is the proposed law with the Regulation on criteria, criteria and procedures for funding and the negotiation of programmes and projects of interest for the general good implemented by the associations? Is it necessary for the proposed law to apply to the award of public funds to associations and other non-profit organisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109136	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109137	Thank you, this regulation has been in force for a long time and to the extent to which it is applicable to the area of culture it applies, but this is lex specialis, it regulates some specific measures related to the area of culture. There is a need to level the criteria, conditions for both institutional and non-institutional culture. And of course the best practices set out in the Regulation that can apply they apply, but they do not apply directly but is the fundamental law of this law. That's how it's been so long, that's how it's gonna be after this law's passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109138	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109139	Dear Madam Minister, it is therefore welcome to allow smaller cities to participate in cultural councils, so from 20 to 10,000 is welcome to lower the threshold. However, how can you guarantee that these cultural councils will indeed be autonomous in accordance with the decisions of expertise and equal representation, but the decision that you, as a minister, therefore appoint them, and at the same time decide on financing and make a financing decision. It is questionable how such a council will be able to be truly autonomous in its decisions. Please, if you can explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109140	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109141	Thank you for this comment. I'm instructing you to read the exact provisions after all. Therefore, the minister does not appoint councils in cities, local authorities do so in units of local self-government. So I cannot in any way influence the way they will be appointed, resolved, how they will work. I can only hope that local self-government will be largely guided by examples of the Ministry of Culture and Media as regards the treatment of cultural councils, the mandate of members of cultural councils, the term of office of members of directors of institutions, the urgency of the publication of data. And the only thing we can do by example is show how we should work both in local and regional self-government and to ensure stable funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109142	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109143	Dear Minister, what we all know is a growing and greater role in society has an association, so... The sector and you have just recently been grateful for this notice, i.e. you remembered a Sibenik association, the Association for the Conservation of the Sibenik Heritage Juraj Dalmatinac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of these associations are engaged in the preservation of immovable cultural goods as an association I mentioned, but there is a Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity, but he's a little different because I have a stable source of funding. In particular, this society and many others are based on volunteering, however, and what is good, which is good, but I invite you from this place to the next competitions that may be specific to one part except for the activities that are specifically foreseen by the competition, one part of the funds, a small part of course, an extremely small part of it also leaves for the implementation of the projects that would go together because here I will say specifically, this capacity association is exclusively on a volunteer basis, here perhaps it should help some professional hires to make projects easier to implement, and there are many [[Intruder: Time.]] very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109144	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109145	Thank you for this proposal. Yes, associations are very important in the field of culture, professional associations that we systematically finance. He had one legal person such as sui generis that are actually associations, but were founded in accordance with the Law on the performance of artistic activity, precisely for performing artistic activity, by independent artists. We have associations, like yours, that you mentioned, and we have many other associations. One percent of the funding programme provided by the Ministry of Culture and Media can also be provided for the salaries of those employed. I would point out that our government in 2010, I was then a secretary of state, so I say our government, proposed and passed the Law on the Culture Foundation is new, so there is also this source of funding for so-called "Culture Foundation". the cold drive, first of all, therefore institutional support to associations and we will also look for new sources of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109146	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109147	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you, so there is a big change, so far in the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture, it has been determined that the institution is governed by the Administrative Council. He's running the principal now. However, what is not clear in this Law, in this bill of law, what are the administrative councils doing? It's absolutely nowhere to be touched. However, the Board of Directors has been removed from the Board of Directors, as well as from the Expert Council, as well as from the Cultural Council. So the source of the director is in the domain exclusively of the Ministry, i.e. you, ministers or mayors or mayors, and in proposing programmes and projects for public funding, it is not precisely specified that they have something to say to the board of directors. So the administrative councils remained completely, in fact undefined in this bill of law, so I would ask you to comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109149	Thank you. I don't know, like we haven't read the same text, but well, I'll read it one more time to see what you read it from. As I said, the proposal is ours in this Law, as it was in the laws on archives, libraries, museums, as it will be in the Law on Theatres, to determine precisely in the first order the decision, the role of the director who assumes the greatest responsibility. The relic that a common body that meets once every three months manages is a relic of collective decision from another time before the '90s. The Governing Councils oversee the growth of administrations, institutions, have very high criteria as to how, who can sit on these boards, monitor and programme and financial institutions, but do not have some hybrid role common bodies that It would be anything you can manage because they don't do it today either. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109150	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109151	Well, I rarely raise my Rules of Procedure, uh, injury, but... 238, I'd say, yet demeaning, not insulting, but demeaning. I really don't think we've read the same law because I would beg you, if you could be kind enough to read where it says that the administrative council is watching. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109152	Okay. No, no, don't answer that. Unfortunately, there's a warning coming because it was a replica, right? He's in trouble because it's the law. It's the law. There's a problem. And you didn't specify this one either, you didn't specify the number, but those are formalities, right? It was essentially a replica. And there's a problem, is, like I always say, I'm not just saying that to you. Far from it, you rarely do it, but, it's, it's the law, is that we break it on purpose all the time. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109153	Here's what I'll probably do. So art. 37 says that the institution in culture with more than 5 employees has an administrative council and then gathers everything else that the administrative council needs to do and what powers are and how they are chosen, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109154	Yeah. Before she answers, Minister, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109155	... Yes, 238, disdaining the parliamentary representative, colleague Peric. [[Specially enabled.]] Don't be mad, Art. 37 prescribes the source of members of the Governing Council. And the criteria of who might be a member. He doesn't prescribe anywhere what the administrative council is doing, what his intel is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109156	- Mrs. Crescent. Peric, I apologize, just a moment, you didn't have, did you, uh, replica? And then you have a warning. Second warning. Mr. Shaschlin's replica at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109157	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister. Well, here are some colleagues who have already asked a similar question, but I think it's a good thing that maybe, if you can further explain it, and it's about units of local self-government of less than 10,000 inhabitants, is it, as well as how to cover the needs of culture, or in the lack of professional people, how, is it possible that cultural councils from cities are somehow covering and covering the needs of these smaller local units around them because it is often common projects. It is also a question of co-financing of certain projects that are often of broader importance than only one unit of local self-government or the possibility of co-financing by both the local and regional and the ministry, is it, to say the case, whether it is projects that are often much, much more important. Here, so if you could explain that a little bit further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109158	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109159	So this border is also set on a number of inhabitants where there is a commitment, and no one prevents smaller units from reaching for the establishment of a cultural council or commission to make the allocation of financial resources more transparent and we also know of some smaller, smaller cities that have cultural councils, and we also know of some who have had a commitment so far and have failed to meet it. So this is really in one part respecting both decentralised functions and status of cities, county, municipalities, so one direction that is desirable to go by, more than 10,000 residents are bound, but no one is preventing cities and municipalities with fewer inhabitants from going the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109160	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109161	Thank you. Dear Minister, in the transitional provisions of Art. In 47, it is said that the councils established under the Law on Cultural Councils continue to work until the end of the term of office or resolution. I'm really interested, and we all want to know why, why not, if you're going to tell me it's a waste of time, in art. The 18th century 2 says that it is enough on the web pages for a minimum of 15 days, so within a month that process can be completed, and you have the opportunity to set up a council that may be in the next term of office some other power will be really depolitical and that this council has some kind of influence and then, just like this in half of the term, remain on. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109162	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109163	Mr. Representative, I have to admit, I don't understand your question at all, in any direction you're aiming, and I wish you'd explained a little bit what you asked me. So that's the proposal, specifically if you ask for the Ministry of Culture in a very transparent procedure under the current law we appointed members of the cultural councils less than a year ago. As far as these councils are concerned, nothing significant changes and why we should now just because the law is passed interrupt continuity, however, I must react to this depoliticalization of yours. So if there's anyone, and I'm going to be a little bit and in person, then I'm a minister and I've shown that I'm choosing councils of very different aesthetics and other world-famouss, to respect their decisions and their work and I don't think they should be depolitized, they're really in the case of the Ministry of Culture and Media completely depolitized.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109164	Thank you. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109165	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this new bill of law actually deepens the centralization of power, more specifically your power within the ministry. Associations in the field of culture have repeatedly warned of many irregularities, illogicalities and non-transparentities in the competitions of the Ministry of Culture i.e. arbitrary decisions that distribute money from European funds and money from Croatian taxpayers without clear criteria for reporting, evaluation, reporting, lack of information on results and similar marifets. I will rely on my colleague Sačić who has requested a break here, so I will ask you why Croatia and the Ministry of Culture do not participate in projects that are important for deepening the identity of Croatia and Croatia in general perceptions in cultural events?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109166	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109167	Thank you. Mr. Representative, if you and your representative were in the assembly a few minutes ago, then you'd have heard my answer, but thank you for the opportunity to repeat. So we finance numerous projects concerning both the Homeland War and contemporary Croatian history and the Ministry and other institutions. What you refer to, as was referred to by your colleague, is the typical resilient untruth of Mr. Sedlar, who, as I have previously responded to the media, has not applied to the competition, received a written answer to his question, but regardless of his needs, but apparently your needs persist in the untrue and difaming of all those cultural employees who apply to the competitions, who send reports and who agree to participate in this competitive process of approving cultural projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109168	Thank you. Injury of Mr. Sacic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109169	I have to report this breach to the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, it could be this minister of ours, however, demeaning and insulting. I'm not the one sitting next to you, I'm Agent Sacic. Minister. Thank you very much for your culture. Secondly, if there's any relationship between you and Mr. Sedlar, I don't know, but I've seen an awful ugly sentence on the logout list.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109170	Mr. Sacic's time, time. Nothing, let's just say, the general formula was a replica and a reminder. - Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109171	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, the law has already established that these cultural councils must be established in cities and counties, and I am going back to the local policy, but I see that you have now written in this explanation that units of local and regional self-government are not using the role of cultural councils enough, and now the criteria are coming down again so that fewer of these and towns and municipalities and municipalities can, in a more transparent and better way, be in funding for culture, so I am interested in why this role of cultural councils has not been used in these cities with 20 and 30 thousand and 10 thousand inhabitants, why has this not been used, so that I am attracted as much funds as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109172	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109173	It's hard for me to say. I, of course, set up a certain legislative framework, but JLS are completely autonomous. I can repeat what I said, certain criteria and standards that we set in the Ministry of Culture and Media, we would like to see that they are passed on to both local and regional levels in all their talks and visits to a number of JLS, talks with the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, we always point out that need, and now through the law and we set certain frameworks and related to deadlines and arrangements to make the financing of the culture truly more predictable and more stable, that is crucial. Sometimes it is less important how much money you get to know it in time that you can plan, and unfortunately, it is not often the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109174	Thank you. Mr. Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109175	Your Honor. Minister, you have previously highlighted one item that I must particularly emphasize here, which is St. 40, which allows the mayor as elected by his citizens and representative of his city to choose and appoint directors of institutions to which the city is the founder. So far, an experiment in which the city council has imposed on the mayor sometimes did not end well. This legal solution strengthens the position of the director, gives him strength and gives him more and more powers, but also responsibilities. This certainly promotes both creativity and freedom in creation. I'd like you to say that the mayors, or the mayors, can appoint their directors in these institutions, and how do I comply with these changes in the jurisdiction and the boards themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109176	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109177	Thank you. So enough, we've really discussed this with both the directors of the institutions and the mayors and the entire cultural community. I must admit that I am often sick and tired of watching news reports from some city councils where reports of cultural institutions or the selection of directors really break down in the most harsh way by parties without any interest in culture. That's what I said, what I've said is that the director of the institution in culture for the local water supply and we think that this establishes a clear responsibility, and as I've already said to the board of directors in accordance with the Law on Institutions, they have their own responsibility, they monitor, they have professional people sitting in them, and they actually oversee the work of both the director and those reports that then leave both the mayor and the city council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109178	And at the end of the day, Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109179	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think this bill is proof that quality preparation, consultation with an interested and professional public can lead to a law that will cover all the necessary elements, but also satisfy the basic objective of its adoption. Thank you for listening and respecting most of the proposals and associations of cities, as well as other interested ones. I will especially highlight the article. 8 and the allocation of financial resources without competition in a precisely established percentage which has not been the case so far. Now it's back to normal. 8. define a direct assignment because of the urgency of action, and if not all can be defined precisely and predicted, but there may still be a need to add “in justified and exceptional cases”, purely for the reason that this article is not misused and used in really justified and exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109180	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109181	Thank you for your comment, it was indeed an act of intent. 8, so that, of course, 95% of the funds are channelled through a public call, but we know at the level of each JLS, there are certain resources that are needed for some urgent action during the year, there may be some damage in some cultural institution, there may be some possibility of an extraordinary programme that you couldn't predict earlier, entering an international partnership, and this seemed to be some kind of a good ratio for us even though we'll see another reading whether there might be some corrections related to that ratio, it seemed to us that 5% of the total budget was something, something that was good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109182	Thank you. You're free for now. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, yes, no, and you've already stood up preventively. I'm opening a debate and indeed Mr. Zeljko Pavić is first in line and will represent a club called the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109183	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's the first thing I should do is talk to the minister, so far as we've been on board, when I was a member of the Committee on Information and Information and Media, I've really always been given detailed information on everything we've asked questions. Today there have obviously been some misunderstandings or you haven't quite figured out our questions or something else has happened. In fact, I asked you about the Council for the Financing of International Projects, on page 2 of the law you gave us, so in the opening section it says in paragraph 2, the second, given the proposed law, except for the abolition of the Council for the financing of international projects that did not exist in practice, it will change etc., etc., so it says the explicits that this council is abolished, that this council is abolished, so it says explicits. Furthermore, a colleague asked a question concerning the Article. The 18th century 3. And that is, it goes on to say, so in art. The 18th is actually the appointment of members of the council, and it is written in St. 3. On the basis of this, it means that you make a public call, and then you collect offers and, on the basis of the proposals made, the minister responsible for culture is appointed president and members of the council, so that's what it says in Article. 18th century 3. So the question asked by a colleague, I think it was a good question just maybe it was also a misunderstanding. As for a colleague who had just said that counseling had been carried out, a total of 41 comments arrived, 451 pardons, so 451 comments arrived, of which 33 were accepted, with about 17 and half of them being the same and one part almost irrelevant to the law. So very little is what is important, or what we think is important has been accepted. I will therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats, once again go through what we believe should be accepted and it should be attempted by the ministry or by the minister. First, you said yourself that the law would actually define 3 areas, which is financing public needs in culture, establishing and operating cultural councils and managing institutions in culture, and then we ask why the law would not bear the title of the law on cultural councils, public needs in culture and the management of institutions in culture. It doesn't require any big deal, I don't think it's some kind of dispute about it, but it would be clearer what that law actually defines. Furthermore, related to art. 4th century 3, you gave an explanation that cultural centres are actually cultural institutions, so they are covered by this law and are engaged in all of these activities, so it is not necessary specifically.../incomprehensible/... and the activities of the cultural centre. I don't know, we're thinking that culture centres, cultural homes and national universities are actually the most represented institutions in culture all over the country, and they're actually implementing specific programs that primarily have cultural and social character, so maybe it wouldn't be bad for that article to define it, maybe to think about it one more time, to define it one more time. Next up, Art. 17th century 2 for members of the council are named artists, experts and cultural workers pointed out in the fields of art and culture. Now, the current law on cultural councils in Art. 3 makes this much more detailed, who can be appointed a member of the council, and we think it would be good to define it clearly in this law, so we suggest that this article of the law actually states that for the members of the council, cultural workers and artists and other experts who, with their achievements and knowledge of problems related to the establishment and implementation of cultural policy, can contribute to the achievement of the objectives for which the Council is established. You have also made a proposal, or you have responded, that the prescribed formulation is wider than the proposed one, but the meaning is that it is wider than the proposed one, so that it is not manipulated, so we ask that the same thing be accepted and included in the Law. After that, we get to art. 19th century 2 where it says that the minister responsible for culture will resolve a member of the council before the expiry of time from Article 1 of this Article. if any events occur, and among other things, it also writes if it violates the reputation of the council or the culture ministry by its action or behaviour. Now, this provision on the violation of the reputation of the council or the ministry is not more detailed here, so a decision on the violation of reputation can be made on an arbitrary basis, which actually leaves too much space, at least one person, that is, specifically now, the minister of culture, defines that reputation and the modality of his violation from opportunity to opportunity. Infringement of reputation may also be a critical step-off in the public of council members in order to point out the failures or irregularities that arise in the work of the council, which is an unequivocal public interest, not a reason for resolution, so if it is no problem to explain this, it means what it means to act or conduct that violates the reputation of the council or ministry responsible for culture. Either in favor or this one, right in that article. Also, in that same article, it means art. The 19th century 4 states that a member of the council will make a mandate available if the term of office of the minister responsible for the culture who has decided to appoint him ceases. We believe that it is necessary to ensure the independent work of the councils and that members of the council should be independent experts who will participate in the work of the council and make decisions solely on the basis of the quality of the proposed programmes and should not be in any way related to the work and mandate of the Minister and we think that it would be good to formulate it as proposed in one of the proposals in the debate, that a council member may put a mandate, so that he may, if the term of office of the Minister responsible for the culture which he has not made, which has made a decision on his appointment. So it's not a big change, it's just that these people who are in the council are some constant and that you can actually continue to work if the minister steps down from his post. Furthermore, we have an art. 37 says the institution in culture with more than 5 employees has an administrative council. Now, unlike the Law on Theatres, the Law on Museums, the Law on Librarys and the Law on Archives, this Law does not prescribe the role of power and the tasks of the Governing Council but leaves it more detailedly laid down by the Statute. Since the listed laws already define this, it might be good to prescribe these powers in this article and apply them in the same way to all cultural institutions. So it's nothing, no deviation, given that it already exists in other laws, we think that it would be correct to define it here and that it's actually easier to manage it in some way. Furthermore, the Law also states that the administrative council has 3 or 5 members, most of whom is appointed by the founder from the ranks of prominent cultural and... employees, legal and economic and financial experts, and one member is elected by all workers in accordance with the law governing working relations, and special laws are not.../incomprehensible/... if the laws are not different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, we think it would be good and quality to have more members of that council from the very facility. In view of the activities of the institution in culture, it would be necessary, in fact, to make up the total majority in the governing council of public institutions in culture in whatever number it will work, made up of experts in the field of culture and art. So we would actually suggest that this number changes then to be more members of the council from the institution itself, and a smaller number from the outside. And now that I don't have time anymore, I will continue in my individual presentation of these further remarks that we have regarding the law, only there may be an article, item 8 of the same article, which states that the choice of members of the Board of Directors, tasks, decision-making and other issues concerning the work of the Governing Council is governed by the statute of... culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It might be good to consider it to be good to define the tasks and powers of those bodies in the establishment as defined in other specific laws. It's theater law again. And here, I'll continue later in my individual presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109184	Thank you. Mr Milanović litre in front of the Club of Representatives of the Sovereigns. Croatian sovereigns. Croatian sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109185	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. This Law, this new law actually suits and deepens the centralization of power, this time Minister Obuljen Koržinek. Associations in the field of culture, including the Croatian Cultural Council, have repeatedly warned of many irregularities, illogicalities and non-transparentities in the competitions of the Ministry of Culture i.e. arbitrary decisions that distribute money from EU funds and money from Croatian taxpayers. Clear criteria for reporting, evaluation and evaluation of applications, missing and scattered results data, lack of justification, etc., etc. This proposal for a new law in its current form seems to further deepen all these problems and allow the minister to make even more independent decisions. In addition to this, a comment from the public consultation which reads, it is clear from the draft that the culture minister will have even more power to decide independently without clear supervision and control of these decisions. I think that we, the users of the Public Competitions of the Ministry of Culture, should have a much greater opportunity to see into the decision-making mechanisms of the Minister and the Ministry. In our experience, we know that any attempt to point out the ministry's work irregularities remains, and that's all we have to do, just try. The ministry is designed to look transparent on paper alone, and according to EU law, while in practice the ministry is allowed to ignore all applications without consequences. It is dangerous to pass a law in which the users of the Ministry are given even less insight into the mechanisms for the execution of competitions and reports, and only one person, in this case the Minister may, without real supervision, make decisions on the award of real estate and so on. an early allocation of funds from the budget without competitions of up to 5%. The law seems to be trying to adapt to the minister's wishes, not to the Ministry's users, for which the law should exist. In this law, I would say, a public call is meant, but we can do without it. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 It is stated that funds for financing public needs in culture are allocated on the basis of a public call made, but in Art. 8 It is pointed out that financial resources can also be allocated directly, without a public call, because of the so-called The urgency of the action cannot be carried out through a public call procedure, and this is caused by an event which could not be foreseen in the programme of work, the application of programmes and projects. Furthermore, in 1st century C.E. 14 It is pointed out that the State Administration Authority may grant to the Ministry of Culture the management of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is then leased by the Ministry of Public Competitions to natural and legal persons operating in the field of culture, but in the 2nd century of the same article, it states that the real estate of the Ministry may also be awarded by a direct contract to a legal person whose activity is of particular interest to the cultural development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and on the basis of the criteria laid down by the Minister responsible for Culture under Article 8. So it's all in the hands of the minister. Next, in Art. 15 governing the work of cultural councils, paragraph 1 states that the culture of councils continuously monitors and discusses the situation in certain fields of artistic and cultural creation, makes proposals to promote their development and improvement, as well as professional bases and opinions, and performs other tasks in accordance with the Law. In the 2nd century of the same article, the promotion of the needs in culture and art of the national smaller ones is stressed twice, without mentioning the promotion of Croatian cultural and artistic creation other than that abroad. I suppose the ministry believes that this is meant to be, but everyone can judge for themselves how properly this is explained, and General Sacic, not the one sitting next to me, but the General of the Croatian Army has pointed out such problems. These three articles would not be at all controversial if that were the case. Unfortunately, we are witnessing cases where in the cultural councils there are completely unknown people instead of those who have proven themselves in their profession and who would approach the evaluation honestly, responsibly and independently. Conscious of the current state of Croatian culture and art in which many mechanisms and networkings are designed through which money and rewards for certain programmes that impose value, and the criteria for these are often not actually artistic at all, but I would say interesting. We believe that in the councils we need persons with their own integrity who would primarily be guided by the criteria of quality and excellence of a particular tender proposal, and not by the secular criteria and the convenience of themselves with close legal and private persons, even if they are not related or business, as is unfortunately a common case so far. We don't expect anything to change much by passing this new law, but what you're going to have is a greater power of decision in your own hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109186	Five minutes. Minister on behalf of the Proposer, on behalf of you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109187	Thank you very much for your comments. I'd like to apologize first, I don't know the Rules of Procedure of HS well enough, I know from the current morning that we must not address agents who have not, by whom they have not asked a question, and therefore I addressed the esteemed General Sacic as a representative sitting next to you, so there was no intention of offending you. For you, Mr. Sačić, I've known more than I have known about MP Lilitra, Milanović Litra, whom I addressed. But now I've come out to talk about this pay phone and to defend the honor of all the members and members of the cultural councils, whether they work at the Ministry of Culture and Media or work at JLS, because when you say that in cultural councils there are now completely strangers to the public, they may be unknown to you if you're not engaged in the field of culture or if you're reading a comment from a public debate, otherwise my dear colleague from the music academy who, for some personal reasons, addressed this law precisely because of the kind of relationship you're talking about, then I really expect that we have some broad discussion here. It is not right for the members and members of the cultural councils in which the directors of institutions, artists with an international career, dedicated cultural workers, as regards the Ministry of Culture which also expresses the balance in terms of their sex, so we have both male and female members and geographical distribution across all parts of Croatia to say that they are completely unknown persons and to label them to make some interesting decisions. I beg you from this place neither did this come from the law so far or from the practice, nor will it come from future law and practice, nor will any council, as you say, make decisions according to some kind of worldly and private connection. And that's what you pointed out, so you said so-called. A haste, so-called It's not like it's any kind of rush. It's a rush. When the Covid Ministry of Culture and Media took place in a year, 400 million kunas of different support, hasty, unpredictable, it's a rush. I know that some, and even in this tall home, they denied the pandemic and the situation that we found ourselves in, but it wasn't so-called. haste, it was a situation where people who work in culture from today to tomorrow in Croatia and throughout Europe and around the world were left without any income, without any opportunity to work. We fought, we kept cultural institutions open, we provided support, and it's a rush and unfortunately in a world where we live in uncertainty, wars, threats, that haste can unfortunately be repeated, and this is a legal foothold to then act. I think this is a very, very good step.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109188	Thank you very much, ma'am. Minister, I see, I see everything, but I'd like to say one thing to you too, ma'am. Minister and Mr. Milanović litre, with all due respect to Mr. Sacic, who knows how I address him when we're outside the assembly, we don't have a general here, we don't have a doctor, we don't have an academic, we're all representatives and we're all the same, okay? - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109189	Minister, you spoke to us as you said to defend the honor of the cultural councils, and I chose a replica with the same intention. In your answer, you replied to Urshi Raukar, if I remember correctly, and I will quote that the question of the loss of the independence of the boards of directors has been answered by the collective body meeting once a month and deciding on something a relic of some other time, I guess you couldn't say the word socialism, so this euphemism is used for some other time. I would warn you that collective decision-making is the foundation of democracy, and centralization and putting power into the hands of one man should be a relic of the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109190	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109191	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. I'm sorry if you found yourself personally hurt by my commentary given that you have some tendency towards that time, and even self-government that I really don't have and I don't think it was a good way of managing, that being good would have survived, so our opinion... No, I know very well what democracy is and I advocate democratic ways of governance unlike those we had before, and that's why I said, so the executive body manages, and the collective body controls it, and that's something that works, so ultimately the executive body manages, and you're here to oversee us at all levels. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] In companies, the executive body also manages, and the supervisory authority oversees, so this is one thing to say nice compliance and giving a stable framework for the management of institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109192	Time. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109193	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I'm gonna take this opportunity, and I'm gonna tell you this might be an ideological thing right now, but I don't think we're all the same, nor will we ever be all the same. There are some differences, some people are much smarter than me, some are much dumber, it will always exist that nothing changes that we all sit here together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109194	We weren't talking, we weren't talking about brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109195	All right, this one, first of all, I'm not a supporter of generalization of any aspect of society, so neither are members of the cultural, cultural council. I didn't say that all those people who, who didn't deserve to be there, but that some of them are quite certain, I'm sure of it. You said you were standing behind all the members of the cultural council, which I find very questionable. Very, very questionable. No, I don't believe you think that or that you believe that they're all there for a reason, and they can possibly say about the crisis situations or the fast ones that happened during Covid. Let's be realistic all of it, all of it Government decisions, your governments have led to these situations. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109196	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109197	I wouldn't have, thank you for your comment, on the replica, I wouldn't have answered my word if you hadn't said quote, in the cultural councils sitting completely unknown. And to that I answered, they may be unknown to you, if you are not engaged in the field of culture and it is legitimate, but in cultural councils I, when I go out here in front of a pay phone, talk about cultural councils that I have appointed in accordance with the Law as Minister of Culture and Media, are really persons with their CVs, achievements and certainly not strangers to the cultural public. They take on a great responsibility, very often and the pressures of my colleagues and I am expressing them from this place once again and my respect and gratitude to those who accept these honorable but ungrateful duties both at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media and in the cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109198	Mr Milanović litre, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109199	Article 238, Minister, the minister still has some differences in the assembly, Minister I am not my position, this is the attitude of people who work in culture, who deal with it, and in the end I consider myself a culturer at least on that edge of culture because I'm a graduate designer. So I'm not very ignorant about culture in the Republic of Croatia, so what you just said to your people, I'd tell the people you're responsible for, and those are the culturalists in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109200	Thank you, of course here's a warning because it was a pure replica. Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek, a real replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109201	Dear Ministers would not have answered the replica if you were not a colleague of Antoliæ Vupa when she asked you questions about cultural councils, so that you too would not appoint cultural councils. Dear Ministers, this current law in Article 18 states that you appoint members of the council for 4 years and according to your preferences. In the case of stalking practice with you I suppose, and certainly so will the cultural council be assembling the role of obtaining alibis of expertise and even representation precisely to your decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109202	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109203	Thank you, I ask you to read the item now I may not be latet, the item of that article is the last one that says that this does not apply to local and regional self-government, does not relate, the minister does not appoint, is not bored, will not now. Read the last article of this article, which indicates that it does not refer to local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109204	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Ban Vlahek, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109205	Thank you. The Honorable Minister would only depend on this, I would use my minutes, two. So Article 18(3) doesn't exactly say what you're talking about. So I asked you to read exactly what it says in that article, but let's do this. This proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture does not solve real problems, but creates several new ones. But the legislative pessimism that radiates from this text is even worse. If you have bad regulations, at least in principle there is hope that someday someone will take seriously the challenge, carefully analyse problems and processes in the whole of the field, listen to different opinions, come up with a whole long-term policy and finally propose new regulations that will, along with other instruments, ensure its implementation. However, when someone instead of three bad laws prints one even worse, it certainly kills hope. And that's what this government is doing consistently, reducing expectations. Like it doesn't matter that the law hasn't been able to fix anything, we should be happy that the deterioration isn't catastrophic. The creation of this hybrid version of the law has been approached without any vision or idea of the totality of the system and specificities of certain areas. Basically, the proposal consists of unifying and administratively nomotechnical details. Without a doubt, ministry officials will be more practical that they do not have to open together with amendments and rules of over 10 regulations. However, this could also be solved with a quality consolidated text, and for those who like the letters of the law to have a solid copy on paper, the solution would be a spiral undertaking. The truths of will and existing laws are not particularly good, some parts are obsolete, some inaccurate and unclear, and some inconsistencies with other regulations. If she doesn't justify it, not at all. If there are two things in the field of financing artistic work and cultural activities on which there is a consensus of practices and scientific reflections, then these are under one need for continuous training and professionalisation of how to decide on the allocation of funding criteria, collection of applications for competition, evaluations, etc. And second protection from political parallelism, ensuring that decisions on money for culture and art will not be made according to political-party preferences. The same certainly applies to the management of institutions. Perfecting decision-making and abolishing political parallelism does the bill make any of it, not at all. In fact, on many shares he headed in the opposite direction. The always-resistant distribution of funds for public needs is governed by the Law on Culture Funds, a law that was somewhat transparently adopted in the 1990s to put an ideologically unacceptable Act on Self-Governmental Interest Communities of Culture, which is only 3 years old. Later renamed the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. By amputating self-government dynamics of users and cultural producers in harmonising the allocation of funds, this short Law on Culture Funds is based on the modification of the fourth chapter of the previous SIZ Act. The proposal to lower the threshold of 20,000 inhabitants to 10,000 makes one of the few initiatives that at least at the principle level is not controversial. It is good that cultural financing decisions will not be made by one person but will be done by cultural councils in smaller cities. However, to what extent are these councils not only in smaller but also in larger cities and at the state level according to this proposal autonomous in their work since they are named according to their preferences by the Minister of Culture and Media, who also makes decisions on the allocation of funds according to Article. 27th of this proposal? Not at all. Their role is advisory at best, in that more frequent case of stalking practice, the cultural councils are assembling the role of obtaining alibis of expertise and equal representation to ministers' decisions. The current Cultural Council Act stipulates that the Minister of Council members was appointed to the 4th year, in practice it could mean that at least some members of the council elected according to the preferences of one minister remain at the post and deep in the second's term, regardless of whether there has been a significant change in parties in power in the meantime. However, the current proposal in Art. In 19th, he said that a council member was leaving with the minister who appointed him, who could change him if he did not like his actions and behavior. What is this action and behavior that violates the reputation of the council or the ministry responsible for cultural affairs? If you want to democratisation the decisions on funding and management in the field of culture and art, allow different social actors such as professional associations to choose at least part of the members and members of cultural councils or cultural institutions' managers, allow cultural workers and workers to advise and supervise them, introduce external independent evaluations of funded projects, prescribe clear and unequivocal criteria and procedures for evaluation and reporting, but first publish what your objectives are so that you can discuss them. If your ever-published proposal for cultural policy comes down to the fact that the money for working in culture is getting smaller and smaller, that artists and cultural workers are living harder and harder, but that for those who act and behave according to your preferences always find some kuna or euro more nicely and that would already be some call for discussion instead of this policy of silence, poor mood, ignoring arguments and pushing the old. If it is one of the objectives of cultural policy that you could respect and improve the material position and working conditions of artistic and cultural workers, and journalists where solutions should appear rather than just in this law. When comparing funds for public needs in culture allocated through a public call at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media 2019 with those in 2009. Let us note that the mass of cultural workers' salaries before the current crisis did not return to the nominal amounts of the previous so-called so-called. global financial crises. Although the total budget of the ministry has been nominally increased by 266 million funds paid for dramatic and musical stage art, cultural art amateurism, magazines, libraries, dances, art programs, museum gallery activities, it has actually decreased by 10.6 million kuna, not counting the effects of inflation that was 13.5% in that period. To make things worse, in most categories the average levels of support have been reduced, as well as the ratio of accepted and rejected projects. Similar indicators can also be seen at local self-government level. It actually means that more and more artists are free from any employment. The field of culture is structurally feminised and thus underpaid, but within the field there are hierarchys, men in higher positions play a role of creators who contaminate cultural programs while women often implement these same programs. A bunch of unpaid overtime, a imbalance between private and public life and business, a constant concern about how to pay the directorship. This is what the everyday life of the vast majority of cultural workers and workers looks like, not that anyone who worked on this proposal is concerned. Therefore, one of the strategic objectives of cultural policy should be to improve the position of material and working conditions and quality of life of artistic and cultural workers and workers, as well as journalists and journalists who, as well as media activity, are generally left out of this proposal as if media and journalism were not part of Croatian culture. No matter how difficult this seems and consistent with the logic of priorities such as in social policy, health and education never lacks a way of achieving this goal is the continued growth of public resources for culture work. Of course, there is more that this proposal would have to deal with instead of it. It is consistent with the policy of structural impoverishment of workers and workers in the field of culture and art, and centralised in decision-making in cultural production and working conditions. The proposal for this law is contrary to the current requirements and needs of cultural workers and workers. We insist that the creation of a new bill also involve the general public, initiatives and professional associations that work systematically to promote honest paid work and develop tools for its implementation in the range of public needs in culture to self-regulatory the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109206	- Mrs. Crescent. Nina Skilled Koržinek 5 minutes on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109207	Thank you very much. I have asked for the word that this debate may be missing further to clarify this, therefore, regarding the appointment of cultural councils. Art. The 18th century 3nd, pages 2 and 3th on appointment, the Minister's appointment, is in the head of the law entitled "Cultural Council of the Ministry of Culture". If you read further then come not far away, “Cultural Council units of local and regional regional self-government” Art. 20. and here tells you that the act on the appointment of presidents and council members brings the executive body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. So it is clear that the minister appoints a cultural council at the Ministry of Culture and Media and that a decision is taken locally in accordance with Article. 20th century. 5th century. You can read about our published cultural policy goals in the programme of government, if you are interested as well as on the website of the Ministry of Culture. This is not a cultural policy for those with our preferences as you read in your report, but a cultural policy is intended for even regional development and inclusion of all stakeholders. But what particularly bothered me were these comments and comparisons about funding. So, as a culture minister of the then culture, today, media culture, I inherited a budget of 0.56%, 0.56% of the SDP government's legacy. We reached 1% in our term of office, and then there was a crisis. I inherited the situation where the results of the competition were published in April, May or June of the SDP government, very easily verifiable, everything is available on the website of the Ministry of Culture and Media. I was appointed in October, but that year all the results were published by the end of the year, so I ask you to discuss this bill with a little more information. The general public was involved through a public debate, not all workers and workers as you call them to participate in writing laws because the law would never be written. In law writing, a task force involving directors, local and regional self-government presidents, artists, all workers and workers because we are all workers and workers, and then all of them were able to give their opinion in the public debate and mayors and local self-government, both artists and cultural workers and all workers and workers. And we have listened to that part of the proposal that we thought would improve the law, just as we will listen to those suggestions that we will hear in today’s debate, including those we hope to hear in another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109208	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109209	Dear Minister, I am pleased that, apart from me having a referendum, you probably have the same referendum or colleague who advises you because you just said that in Art. The 18th century 3. That's exactly what it says. You as Minister should know exactly what you're doing. The 18th century 3 says if you're going to say that to change now and state I don't know. 20th century 5th, so thank you for reading this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109211	Thank you. I was quoting the article correctly. The 18th century 3 says "On the basis of the attached proposals, the minister responsible for culture shall appoint the president and members of the council to take care of their expertise and equal regional representation." As regards the Ministry of Culture and Media, Art. The 20th century 5th said "The act on the appointment of presidents and council members shall be adopted by the executive body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government."
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109212	Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109213	First I'm going to refer to what you said you got a budget of 0.56% and drew it to 1%, that's certainly commendable, but I have to tell you that when you came to the head of the ministry it was a period in the economy of broad conjuncture. So it has nothing to do with the SDP, the HDZ, it really took a lot more to isolate for all segments of society and so on for culture. In socialism hated by which you will probably return to every replica of mine, it was somewhere between 3 and 5% of the budget. And as for your criticism, you said, as far as democracy is concerned, let's get back to it, so we have a democracy in socialism and this dark administrative council that's going to meet once a month, and that you've commented that there's no democracy, I'd just like to tell you, democracy is indeed that independent bodies who name experts independently from the culture minister make some decisions. and that should be encouraged in this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109214	Thank you. This proposal of yours goes further than self-management he goes towards anarchy. I don't know which independent bodies would name some independent bodies. And as far as the comparison is concerned, if we're going towards socialism, and as you know, I was dealing with cultural policies, as you know, then cultural policy was much more centralised, all institutions are therefore the percentage of the culture then and the percentage of today's culture is greater than pears and apples.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109215	You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with an associate. The central issue concerns the purpose of importing three key laws for the functioning of the cultural sector into one mega-law and the necessity of its adoption before the Ministry of Culture and Media adopts a strategy that should determine the future direction of cultural policy development in Croatia. So, at the same time as a working group is set up to create a National Development Plan for Culture and Media, the ministry comes out with this bill that regulates key areas of the cultural system without knowing where this system is actually going and where we want to direct it. So this bill that is before us is done without a strategic and analytical basis, and without it I believe that we will all agree on it, it is impossible to implement a really quality law. The main objectives of the adoption of the new law are to increase the transparency and stability of culture, to define the obligation to finance culture at all levels, to adapt to the modern development of culture, and to define more clearly the functions of the directors of cultural institutions. However, such cultural practitioners do not see, in fact, those who do work in the cultural sector, who are almost universally saying that this law does not actually bring any major change or not at least the kind of cultural system that is necessary. And the law referred to in this procedure does not recognise that public institutions in culture or cultural centres need and must and require a separate united law which will recognise among other things the democratisation of governance and the vital importance of cultural infrastructure. Two laws should be drawn up because it is very important segments of cultural and artistic action and it is necessary to adopt separate laws, hence the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and cultural councils, and the Law on the financing and management of cultural institutions, and this should be done in a broad discussion and dialogue with actors on the cultural scene. The Cultural Councils of the new law become bound by the mandate of a minister or minister, which, of course, weakens their independent position and does not have the opportunity to influence the final amounts for the proposed programmes in key issues, as the allocations have affected the final ones. It's one of the points of recorded politicisation in decision-making structures in culture that we find unacceptable. Furthermore, a series of undefined things, such as how to assign space to work for organizations in culture that can be awarded by direct contract according to previously defined criteria, but we do not know these criteria. The law introduces an exception to the allocation of funds without a public call because of the urgency of the action caused by the event that the applicant could not foresee, but nowhere in the bill explains what the events are, and it is prescribed that the total amount of such appropriations should not exceed 5% of the total amount intended to finance programmes and projects in that year. 5% of the total amount for public needs only in culture, for example according to the 2020 amount is around 4 million kuna. I believe we'd be lucky to get 4 million kunas without a public competition. A number of irregularities and illogicalities in the bill are also linked to the financing of administrative councils and with the selection and mandate and directors, and I tried to ask a question in the replica. So, I will repeat in the current Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture clearly says that public institutions in culture are governed by the Administrative Council if the law is not specifically defined. This proposal introduces a change to the management of the institution by the Director and the management board's competences are not defined at all. It should be recalled that the administrative councils have been introduced into Croatia's legislation because of the need for more transparent involvement of the community in the management of the institutions and as a defense of the overly self-will of the director, and of the bohemian and abuse of our functions that we have witnessed over the past 30 years, not once. That is why we find it unacceptable that the administrative councils are actually fully formalised without any law of a certain authority. For example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15. says programmes and projects of cultural institutions are determined by the bodies of institutions in accordance with this law. But this law doesn't say anything about it. If the Director manages the institution whether it should provide a work report, for example, a work plan to the Board of Directors, this is not stated anywhere, it is not stated that the Administrative Board is overseeing the work of the Director, this is not taxing. Therefore, the administrative boards were removed and the selection of directors, the competitions carried out by the institution, so the existing director calls for a tender which he is likely to report himself, interviews are not conducted by the administrative board or delivers an opinion, they are a completely exceptional and expert council, if any, the opinions of the employees who have their representative in the council. Therefore, the decision on who will lead the institution in culture is made exclusively at the state level of the minister or minister and at the city or municipal level by the mayor or the mayor. I believe, of course, that it is total politicisation and centralization in the selection of leaders in cultural institutions. Madam Minister, your answer that the administrative council is a relic of another time I can only answer you, not only this return to another time in which politics is exclusively and the only policy has decided who will be the head of the institution in culture. Democracy in governance would mean that both the profession and the employees have the right and the ability to say their views on the candidates. So, in art. 12, for example. the programmes and projects of cultural institutions shall be determined by the bodies of the institution in accordance with this law, but it is necessary to specify more precisely which bodies. So, we propose that this is the Administrative Council on the proposal of the Director and the consent of the Expert Council if it exists. Next up, Art. In 37, the composition of the Governing Council is therefore prescribed, a provision to select a member from the house. It is clear for the three-member councils, but what happens to the councils that have 5 members, for example in Zagreb it is the Lisinski or Philharmonic Hall. This kind of uncertainty can lead us in practice to a ratio of 4:1 because it is necessary to specify in this case that 3 representatives are selected by the founder, and 2 from the house are selected by all employees of one, and the other professionals among themselves and I am speaking by example to the theatre council. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. For a member of the board of directors, a person who has completed his degree now is named the whole song, and I must first of all say that this is a general question for education to be fully analized by BA, so these three years of study, it actually carries nothing to anyone, but it should also be said that in culture there are people who are affirmed and without a degree, really exist. And you, Madam Minister, know very well. So who do I think should be expanded in this way and that this excessive and unspeakable formalisation for the area of creative culture is not being carried out. We are pleased that a proposal has been adopted from a public debate and it is a multi-annual funding, indeed thank you for that, for decades the culturalists have been fighting for it and by no means, here they are now getting it, I commend. Especially worrying is that the law that is soon to be read i.e. It is now readable, and soon it will be in place to amend the items that were not provided for in the draft after the public consultation. So, more specifically, what counterpart Matula asked is that cultural councils are elected under the old Law on Cultural Councils and remain in office after the adoption of the new law. Given that the ministry points out the main reason for the adoption of a new law of change includes cultural councils and changes to their names, current council members They really don't have any basis for staying in office. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you, I'll continue in individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nina O'Bouljen Koržinek, again on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109218	Thank you. Dear Representative Raukar, thank you for these comments, some of us will certainly consider it, but one thing we really do is, first of all, about the institution. So, to be clear, this part regarding the management of institutions in culture applies only to those institutions that do not have their own specific laws. So this law does not apply to archives, libraries, museums, theatres. The Law on Fundamental Law Institutions defines the Law on Institutions as Article 36 of the Administrative Council. It is defined by the Law on Institutions that should not be repeated in this law. This is the law which is in force in Article 36. adopts a programme of work and development, decides on a financial plan, etc., so this is all defined. And this law only predicts that the statute can make it more precise, therefore, given the specifics of cultural centres. But one thing, one thing I don't understand, is this commitment to a cultural council that would continue in the second term. So I'm asking you now, you're in power in the City of Zagreb, how many cultural councils you've kept from your predecessor to advocate it. I mean, no, no, that's a rhetorical question because I mean it, and that's legitimate. So, you come with your program, with your cultural policy, you appoint respected cultural workers but those you think by consulting you, your mayor will implement, help you implement that cultural policy that makes you, among other things, believe and choose. And it is legitimate to also be done at the level of the Ministry of Culture and Media etc. So, follow the Croatian public and that's fine, your voters will come after you, and we will all judge by some of the choices that will judge us, but it's really not principled to stand up for it, and all of the people you or most of the people you inherited from your predecessor have been more or less replaced by some of the people you think will implement cultural policy. And this 5% to be clear, so far it's never been defined. I made it very clear here. We can also talk about percentages, but it wasn't defined, there were cities that divided 20-30% of the budget past the public call. We now define a minimum of 95%, but we do not say about this other non-transparently and in some unclear procedures, but we only say extremely and beyond that regular public call that we specify by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109219	Replica, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic has her first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109220	Dear Minister, here's what I have to admit. I don't understand anything. On the one hand, you said a public competition for the cultural council, is that standing or not standing? And then, in your presentation on behalf of the promoter, you came down on a colleague from another political party that is as competitive to me as you are, and you said well that you have now done in the City of Zagreb you have the right to leave your cultural councils that will implement your cultural policy and what it means now. Have you just admitted that the public tenders you are conducting are conducted by political means, and that means the party key because I am the only one, but literally the only way I can understand this exhibition of yours and this direct address to the political option that is currently in power in the City of Zagreb. And if you ask me what's wrong with this country, then that's it, the fake contests set by political and party key.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109221	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109222	Dear Representative Oreskovic, you later came to the assembly, and it seems to me that since you are otherwise based that you have not even read the draft, this is not about any public tenders, a public invitation to a completely different institute. Well, you know that, so don't. Wait a minute. [[screaming from the bench: It's the same thing.]] So this is about a public call based on which the Minister of the Council of the Ministry of Culture and Media or the executive body or city council at the level of local self-government brings an act of appointment, that is completely different. [[Intruder Reiner: No dialogue please]] No public call for the board, no public call. I mean we mix pears and apples really now, so one is a public tender, it's for directors and one is a public call for councils, and in the administrative council is named without any... So I don't know where he came from, that comment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109223	Thank you, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109224	Thank you. Dear Minister, so as far as I'm concerned, I've still been following these laws for 10 years, I've given very specific examples, Lisinski, Philharmonic, I haven't talked about theatres at all. Next, I accept really... that in this annulment of the law, By joining that the Law on Institutions, but I still think that the administrative council should be better strengthened by this law, because absolutely one sentence is not written to oversee work, it doesn't say anywhere, it absolutely doesn't write. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And lastly, I have to tell you, you know, we've chosen the new cultural councils in Zagreb when the old ones ended their mandate, most of the boards of directors in culture chose when their mandate expired except in some very critical situations, for example. Some of the characters from the former mayor, so we've just been working to prove that we need to work towards the development of democracy that our cultural councils, the administrative councils, are passing these political cycles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109225	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109226	Then I'm glad you agree, that we agree because I did the same thing, and I, not a single director, in my term of office, had been replaced before the term of office was over except for one person against whom certain proceedings were initiated. I have not replaced any administrative council before the end of the term of office, but I also feel as I had the right to appoint a cultural council that will not necessarily reflect the selection of my predecessor, so I think that someone who comes behind me has the right to choose members of the cultural council. One more thing, we suggest that they put their mandates at their disposal, we don't say they have to choose others, but it's some minimum democratic culture where I think we all have to work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109227	You don't have any more replicas, and now it's time to go. Marijana Puljak, who will give views on this law, the bill, the Centre and GLAS's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109228	Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and colleagues. So here I'm going to start by saying that we actually welcome this initiative and the accession of this draft bill on cultural councils and the financing of public needs in culture because here is the draft that solves some legal misunderstandings that stemmed from previous laws, primarily because of their unscheduledness or obsolescence. What we don't welcome every time it comes to whether or not the Ministry of Culture seems to be sort of secret by now because there are no known members of the working group who worked on making this draft, their members' selection of ministers directly and the public is actually inaccessible information about the process of making this document. Although so far, there have been different opinions on whether we need one of these laws that includes three laws before, so maybe it's useful that it's all in one whole law, but I'm saying here we don't have a solid one, maybe it could have been organized differently. But here are some good things, so I welcome the intention to regulate the rules of spending financial resources and ensure transparency and control of spending. It is therefore stated here that double funding of the same programmes and projects from state and local and regional budgets will be disabled and a financial reporting obligation will be introduced to cover the list of all revenues and direct and indirect costs incurred during and for the purpose of implementing the programme and project. I'm here today, and on the board we've been discussing, actually this to not get this double funding wrong is actually thinking that it's not going to pay for the same job if twice or certainly it's allowed to finance from several different sources, but one of these same jobs can't be paid twice. Another detail that earlier led to the fact that the administrative councils in culture, the institution in culture, were in turn illegal. I also warned several times about this in the City Council of Split, when I was in the City Council of Split, the then ministers and ministers and the competent ministries, so in the current law in the administrative council of institutions in culture, people from the ranks of prominent cultural workers were to be appointed, so it was only so, and often people who had nothing to do with culture were appointed to those councils. As we have heard, these administrative councils have often served or are still serving as a part of the distribution of places to be close to, close to, executive authority. Here it is now in art. In 37, it states that legal, economic and financial experts can also be appointed, and it was actually often an excuse for why these people are named in such a administrative council, but this is not now a guarantee that similar people will not be appointed whether greater progress would be made if they were named after a public, public call. Now there are some problematic parts in the draft, and here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to give them an article like this by article and by some groups. Here, some of the remarks here are therefore stated that due to the late publication of public calls and the results of public calls are now being prescribed whether the call for co-financing of public needs in culture will be announced by 1 October at the latest for the next financial year. However, here we have received some of the remarks from cultural workers who say that it would actually be worth this public invitation to publish only after the adoption of the budget of the unit of local regional self-government. I say I don't have and we don't have a firm view of it, there are people who think one way or another, but we certainly agree that we need to improve this procedure and that these public calls are made in time for them not to be late. Article 21(4) suggests that the appointment of the president and members of the cultural council shall be carried out by the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government. We therefore believe that according to the proposal, members of the council should be appointed a representative body, but that elected members should elect a president at the constitutive session by a secret vote. In this way, members of the council would choose who they consider to be the best person to act as president. Furthermore, Article 20(7), which is attached to Article 19(4), has already been mentioned, mentioning the intention that members of the council shall be made available if the term of office of the Minister or the Mayor ceases, given that the members of the Cultural Council, through a public call, propose a profession, and that they are therefore not seen by any reasonable reason why members of the Cultural Council should put a mandate at their disposal. So far, the practice has been good, so members of the professions that are nominated by someone third in the competition are proposed by the Executive Authority, which is confirmed by the council of the City Council or the Assembly. This has so far been one lever in which we each have some honest part of our influence, but after the elected members can't be called off unless they leave or in some other way stop their mandate. So they really have a limitless mandate to work and have no influence on them. This new way that is proposed, therefore, that the executive authority elects the president of the council and that they go along with the executive authority is here, we believe that this is possible to reduce independence, independence of the work of cultural councils. Next, according to the articles, I already mentioned that let's call it a golden parachute for the principal. A parachute in the sense that it is provided to the Director, so according to this law, all institutions are managed by the Director, so earlier this was managed by the Board of Directors, so now all institutions are managed by the Director, and after the decision of the Director after the end of the term of office, it is ensured that he will return to the return or schedule to the workplace of equal complexity of the business. I'd say there might be an education parallel here. In your education, your principals have, therefore, been able to keep their place of employment for a maximum of 2 mandates. After 2 mandates, they no longer have the security to call it a parachute or how, but in education school principals after 2 mandates here's what I just checked out earlier may be, it might be the wrong data but it seems to me that in the education of school principals after 2 mandates they no longer have a secure job to return to. Because here I am saying, let's also remember a recent case at the Split Theatre in the Croatian National Theatre, so in public, an annex to the contract was made which the director of the Croatian Opera with the Split Theatre at the end of 2019, with the consent of the present mayor here, signed an additional contract of work on the basis of which, after the end of the term of office of the Chief of the Split Opera and the end of the term of office of the Intent, was returned to the place of permanent conductor, and for this place, the place is otherwise intended for a public, public tender. That's when they said from the legal service of the theater that the contract annex was never seen, was never made in their legal service, they don't know who made it, so it's just not a theatre document. Let's remember that the drama chief then resigned from the protest, so an unpleasant case in Split. In particular, the provisions in this law concerning exceptions to public calls are controversial. They relate to financing and allocation decisions, assigning space to work on whether real estate is on use. I will say here that this intention to assign real estate to use is transferred to departments in culture so that it may be even good intention because it will be easier for someone who works in culture and people in the area of culture to have better access to this property than someone from another ministry, but what is controversial is the exception that represents whether the potential for corruption and clientelem is said to be the ministry or executive body of the local self-government unit can also be assigned by a contract to a legal person whose activity is of particular importance for cultural development, based on previously established criteria. The criteria will be adopted whether a rule is passed within 90 days of the adoption of the law, but whether it is without debate about that rule here in the assembly. And it's also mentioned that five percent of the resources in emergency situations, so because of the urgency of action, I say maybe it's a good intention again, here we have mentioned the Covid cases, etc., but it's always when they are direct contracts are always a place for corruption and clientelem. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109229	You, too. Mr Krstulović Opara, in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109230	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, ma'am. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture is a new and well-prepared law which after 20 years of working with 3 laws, the Law on Cultural Councils, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions brings together and important provisions into one easily readable, modern and applicable law which will primarily institutional, but also not institutional, more creative and free and competitive not only within the Republic of Croatia but also on the European cultural scene. I'd ask my colleagues to make their club representatives out I'd like something to say in peace if it's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109231	All right, I just don't know that you're running a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109232	We'll try to be quiet when others talk, so please... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109233	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to give you two warnings now, Mr. Oprah. And so did Mrs. McNally. Dark-Taritash because if this, if it is, forgive me if I didn't intervene, if I didn't intervene, then I think it's my turn for the speaker to ask me, so let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109235	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109236	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109237	I didn't give the instructions but I used my time...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109238	.../Intruder Radin: No, no, no....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109239	... sothat, in order to ask that, let me... /
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109240	But let's move on with the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109241	.... All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109242	Follow, follow a little chronometer and move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109243	Yes, it is. The cultural and creative industry, this is the concept that we have heard many times today is not only known in the world but also enters our space and I am sure that this law allows in the cultural and creative industry an even better and better quality of activity, primarily quality, repeat, legible and understandable law. It is quite clear that Croatian culture, we know this well, is a combination of tradition and modernity that creates Croatia's national identity, so much needed for ourselves, but also for our country to achieve recognition of this identity mark in Europe. In order for this to be the case, we adopt a modern simple, simple law that prescribes very clear competences, responsibilities and a work cycle that adapts the activity to modern needs and makes our cultural infrastructure and cultural scene even more effective, regulates the rules of financing, or regulates dynamics, and that is what should be particularly commended to the public call for the allocation of funds to finance public needs in culture. It is very good that this law states that these public calls must be published by October 1st in the current year. I am saying this from my own experience because I have managed two terms with a cultural institution and it was unusually important at the beginning of the year to know the results of the public call that this date enables and should in any case insist on and give recognition, whatever colleagues say about it. Rules for the direct allocation of funds are also laid down and funding for public needs is defined and also in a clearer and more transparent way. This proposal regulates the problem of assigning space to artists, the assignment of studios and other suitable workplaces. This is important to stress because the commercialisation of the society in which we are and business spaces is very difficult to enable people who are engaged in cultural activities to be competitive with those who would like to adapt these spaces to the casinos, pizzerias, cafes and so on, and therefore this provision that you put on them enables one positive discrimination, and thus solves and allows many mayors and mayors of the municipalities to have one tool to conduct the tender in a transparent manner and to allow the creators to work in the premises that the city grants them, congratulations on this. It is a relief to many, especially to creative people who will get their work space suitable in areas that were traditional and quality or in the very heart of the city, which also enrich those parts of the city where they work, and are not pushed into other less competitive places. It is also important from our own experience that we speak, I say, because I was the director on two occasions, regulating the use of my own resources achieved in institutions that receive basic means of functioning from their founders, but these are now regulated and their use of their own funds that they have made possible through tickets and sales of their publications, various events, but also the rental of these premises that are still regulated in this law. It is necessary to emphasize at the end of this, this review of the law something which has been particularly stuck to my eye and I insist on. As you know, colleagues and colleagues have acted as the head of a city, and I know how difficult it was to manage policies that gave you a mandate if you can't influence the choice of an important person who runs a culture facility. By law, this bill of law and art. The 40th proposal of the law states, of course, that the minister appoints the director of the institution, but also says that from now on, the executive body, or the mayor or head of the municipality, does so. The mayors are elected by citizens and he is obliged to exercise what they have given him confidence in, he cannot do so unless he has a direct, direct delegation to the person who will act as director and therefore is extremely important to this change in the law. Someone calls it centralization, I call it order, order, and a clear axis of the application of important programming rules, which is why someone has been given a mandate to act as authorities. So far, the experiment that has been giving city councils or municipalities the mandate to decide on the head of the facility is now being docked and that's good. And finally, at least it is not directly related to the debate on this bill, but it is particularly significant about the important issue of Croatian culture. Congratulations to the composers of this text of the bill, in excellent Croatian language, clarity and simplicity that this short law has been passed. I've been stressing this out. I've been listening to all sorts of bill proposals for years. They are often written in a language that is incomprehensible to us fellow MPs, let alone not be an ordinary citizen. Congratulations on this, because this law is written in a quality clear way that points to the richness of Croatian language at the same time. The law linked three laws to one, made up of postulates that laws should be written in simple and easy to apply language. I think it's important to point out in this case, but also in the case of law-making in some other spheres. We must guard the Croatian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109244	Thank you, too, Mr. Krstulović-Opera, and now we're passing through, we're done with clubs, we're moving to individual debates. The first is Mr. Goran Ivanovic, who is already here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109245	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've been involved since the beginning of the debate, and I've tried to articulate everything that I think is important. Of course, reading this bill mentioned here the words that this is mega law. I really don't know why this is mega law. This is one law with 53 articles that clearly regulates things that are very important for culture and for preservation and identity, but also for the evaluation of professions. I don't think there's any cultural preservation without a profession, and even at these lowest levels of local self-government, if you don't have an expert leader and in an ordinary cultural and artistic society, there's going to be a devastation, and that's not good. And I think this is a good thing that we put these three components into one, that's how we simplify it. I think it should be the intensity of everyone's general policy to narrow down, to make people understand better what Mr. Oprah was saying, and I absolutely support it. What's important, and that's a little bit out of this public debate, okay. Statistically, it would be possible to draw various conclusions, but one of the things that is particularly important to me, and I come from that area, that now the buildings that are state-owned, and the units of local or regional self-government have no real estate to function. Here is one example if you are reading a little public debate is KUD Unity from Split, one of the most prestigious cultural and artistic societies in the Republic of Croatia has no space in the city of Split. But it is likely that this way will open space and they will have adequate working conditions. So I think this law recognized the important things that are happening. When we take the regional self-government that so far had appointed members of the cultural councils, we now bring that censorship down from 20,000 to 10, that's good. And I think that these people can really help not only that local self-government unit, but the smaller ones who don't have a chance to achieve this goal. There's been a lot of shouting around this 5%. I think it's something good. Corona taught us some things and taught us, and we saw that sometimes money should be put into operation, not in order to please someone, but in order for the processes to continue, in order not to be questioned. And I think that 5% censorship is quite appropriate, and none of it will make him something else that we all often suspect will please someone, but it will give us a chance to get on with what's important right now. What I also see in this law is that it is good, and that is the continuation of the programs that have begun. It means that not the processes are interrupted, but that some programs that have passed, which may take three or four or five years, do not appear every year, but that they end up in continuity and reach the goal. A lot of shouting about something that I think is excellently done by this law and if there was a minister, the ministry made me say even a precedent. I appoint cultural councils and have a mandate while I am a minister or minister, it is no matter what name we understand each other. And that's okay. And my policy has passed, there has been some other policy that gives these people the opportunity to do the same on the basis of criteria, professions and everything that goes by these other people. I don't really see the problem here, and I think it's a good thing. I see the problem in one thing, Minister, and I think that should be solved, where we in regional self-government have appointed cultural councils but often committees and committees are in a better position than they are. And basically the committees and commissions appointed by the representative body then sometimes even beyond the profession can make decisions that may not be good. I'm here to respect the profession, for people who really know a lot about culture, who are working on it, and I'm going to agree with Mrs. Raukar, I think we should include a higher level of expertise. I think it'd be okay if it wasn't just a high-tech cook. Because certain units of local regional self-government won't have enough people who might want to be members of cultural councils, and they have a high level of expertise, so I think a higher level of expertise would be fine. I welcome this, I think this is a precise concise law that will settle many things and make it easier for culture to present itself better and to be color than it is now, even though it is now excellent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109246	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first line was requested by Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109247	Thank you. Here's what I think is one of the key discussions that we can have about actually culture, but also about how it's actually managed in culture. I am interested in your opinion colleagues whether some of the moves in this law that centralise actually managing institutions in culture and how to choose from the cultural councils to the director where the responsibility is right and that responsibility for certain matters is borne by the minister, or the mayor, etc. I have no particular problem with that, but I have a problem when it is said that, for example, the administrative councils are a relic of the past because I believe that the administrative councils are still very important in terms of the contribution of governance to the institutions and that they should have that strength. A minimum they've had so far, if not bigger. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109248	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109249	Thank you very much. I've been listening very closely to the whole debate and the part where the minister answered, I don't know why it's become the main thesis of this whole story about this law on these relics of the past. I think it's in the context of what the minister wanted to say exclusively this way, and I don't think she wanted to send any message, I'm not defending the minister here now, but the way I've experienced it, she meant that it was something to be threatened by, but she just wanted to pull a certain parallel and try maybe three-dimensionally to illustrate what she wanted to do with this law. Here's my sighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109250	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109251	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleague. I'll refer to that part of your debate where you mentioned from the law how you use state property. So, I'm absolutely putting that incomparably better to have property owned by a state or owned by a local self-government unit than not to be used. Property that isn't used to fail, and that's what we've had a chance to see. But we have that problem that has often been mentioned, and that's the problem that this property that we say is state-owned, that there are unresolved property relations, that there are even unresolved property relations between the unit of local self-government and the state. It seems to me, and you have a certain experience in executive power, it seems to me it would be very good to supplement the provision that defines it in a way that in the case of a dispute the assets are put on use, that the funds are paid into a special account until a particular dispute is resolved. So these are models which we can use and it would seem to be smart and use. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109252	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109253	Thank you very much for this question, for this replica. This is the first reading, and I believe that every proposal is carefully presented by the Minister and listens and certainly wants what is written in this law to be implemented in application. I agree with you absolutely, it's hard sometimes to get to the property that stands, falls, and it's really unimaginable to even look at it all together and say, so why, and we have hundreds of needs to put it into function, but of course the processes aren't simple and property-legal relationships all the things that interfere with it. But I think the intensity of the people sitting in the government in the resolution ministries can significantly improve and I believe in this provision of the law that it will bring a lot of good with the suggestion of what you said is probably some kind of bypass that could be made to make it much more efficient and faster. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109254	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. William Matula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109255	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. The first thing my colleagues and colleagues would say in this debate is what I'm really interested in, but what's the hurry? What can justify that we are today, I am not a member of the board, but that the Committee on Education and Culture held a session at 10.00 today parallel to the plenary session? Why did this have to happen today, why couldn't it have happened before? I don't want to see about it right now, I don't know about any evil intentions, so all I can see is that there's some kind of verse in the agenda, and I don't want to think about everything today with some other debates that were planned on the agenda. No, I think this is really some unusual reason for today's committee to actually have to go further quickly. As far as the public debate is concerned, I know that for you e-Consultation is actually the only form of public debate, but on a subject like this, what many stakeholders of the cultural sector have told you in a public debate that they were forced to organise themselves, where the Director for the Development of Culture and Art, Mrs Tudor Perkovic, was present. Yeah, but what we could hear there and what she heard, and I'm sure she passed it on to you, so it's that people are mostly concerned and they don't understand what this important thing is about, this merger of three laws into some kind of roof law. My colleague rightly called it the megazac that turns out to be. What made it impossible to really have a wide public debate with all the stakeholders in the cultural sector, but I also think the other interested public? If you'd done two more sessions in your organization, covid can't be an excuse, you said this was being prepared in some working group that we're not going to... that you believe in, you know what true democracy means, that some elite you choose has made such a bad proposal because it's been told to you there and it's certainly been passed to you that this law is bad, that it's bad in its structure and that it doesn't actually bring some important systemic changes except that it emphasizes that they have only an advisory role there. Well, they know that. I don't know what those problems are, that they're not given the opportunity, I hope in that evaluation you'll tell them you have this kind of money because we don't have any more money for this year and within that because you experts agree... We chose you, men, women all of what you said from all parts of Croatia, and now you bring your plate as you think you can, and then I don't see why this independence couldn't have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't get it. About these councils and how you renamed them, I still need one thing to ask. Which is why the former cultural council for dramatic and dance art and performing art, as it was concluded, however, that the performing arts that today all the Academys are called.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... for performing art in English, but you were now at the exhibition where Tomo Savic Gecen opened another work without a title and there participates in these algorithms that go out, you were there I didn't have that luck, I'm sorry, but 5 reformers, executive artists. Why can't it be a work of art? Why can't the council decide that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109256	You have, you have replicas. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109257	Certainly the question I'm replicating actually through a replica of you, you're a cultural worker, do you think that exactly one of the objectives of cultural policy and improving working conditions and material status of cultural workers is actually something that should cover this very law. Why is this part not also covered by the existing law proposal now? In your opinion and as an experienced man, should this segment be included in this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109258	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109259	Of course, labour rights in the artistic cultural sector are really questionable. The minister rightly spoke of independent artists and generally artists who were left in this crown completely out of work, but I must say that what is experience and what I know from theatre artists, dance artists, is that that, in fact, they were the most affected by all of our colleagues that I know. And one of the things that also threatens in that sense is that when institutions in culture don't have enough money or there won't be a chance that those people who are independent artists have nowhere else to work but in institutions, too, to earn a fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109260	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109261	: Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matula, you have touched a subject in your debate that is extremely sensitive, and I find it extremely important. This is the subject of a public debate. Public debate can be a form, and public debate doesn't have to be a form. Often these public debates that are related to the law are turned into forms, and most often those to whom the law applies, those who, in the law later on, will have the consequences of a certain law in their real life, are easily rejected, do not like to involve them in any work bodies because they are people who know something, and then may have certain doubts. It seems to me that especially this part of your debate where you were talking about people in culture or those who have connections having their own special public debates, so my people who we write these laws for, to write them, to have them or to be better. I'm afraid this is one of those laws that we just say the clutch we got him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109262	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109263	Thank you. Comrade Mrak Taritash, that I fully agree with you that a large part of these games of democracy is actually turning into a simulation of democracy and into a formal public debate. Unfortunately one such debate is also an e-consultation way in which, of course, it is one of the important tools and normally that should be used, how not. But the objections we hear about this after some very good articles from other associations and other independent cultural actors if they call on these few articles or their proposals, it is then called copy paste and as such is one and the same remark. However, these are important comments and there is evidence that there are many such objections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109264	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109265	Dear fellow Matula, here's what I don't want to be a lawyer for the ministry, but what's funny to me is that your remarks, someone's grinning over here, great. So, the only remark you've had, and the specific thing is that it's quick or slow. [[They laughed at me.]] What's your problem? Did you bring up a particular problem about this law? The only thing that would be quick is that the board's session takes half an hour before, if that's a problem for you then you'll never accept the authorities or the millimeter, you'll stay where you are just going to be another half a meter or a meter away from the wall, so your only observation is whether something was fast or slow. The procedure is clear you could type if you type all day on Face and send something out and publish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109266	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bencic has a breach of her rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109267	Thank you. Here as usual. 238. counterpart Zekanovic, of course, always insults this part of the opposition by not wanting to be Prime Minister Plenkovic's chief lawyer, but of course he is. I get that this is a quick and slow problem for you, you're very fast, and they call you Zeko, right, so you're quick to withdraw the injuries of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to defending character and action. Prime Minister or any of the ministers [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] But at the same time you're still like an opposition, you were somewhere in worlds between one and the other. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109268	It was a replica, thank you. Mrs. Bencic was a replica. I'll give you a quick warning. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109269	So, the only ones living underground is you. So I live on the side of the light, on the side of life, on the side of the truth, on the side of justice, and your colleague Matuli obviously needed the help of a self-called Prime Minister. So, Mrs. Bencic, who called herself and spoke to everyone, I will be the Prime Minister. My colleague Bencic... Yeah, it's you, but here at least be the Prime Minister in your towers among your friends for coffee because that's all you can be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109270	Quietly, quietly, let's not, let's not go any faster because it was a replica and a few more reasons we won't mention. Ms. Sandra Bencic Sandra Bencic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, please. [[Intruder Bencic: I withdraw.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109271	No, I'm not saying I'm withdrawing the injury because unfortunately there's no injury to telling lies. It's completely legitimate in this home so let Mr. Zekanovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109272	You pulled the wound, that's what's important. Mrs. Voter. She pulled Mrs. Voter. And now we're going to the replicas, Mrs. Puljak. The reply to the replica forgive that, answer, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109273	Thank you. Representative Zekanovic, that I will probably not personally be near the government, possibly not in this either, yes, but you, with your support and all, show that you are very likely to be close, possible precisely to these authorities at any time if they need one vote, I am sure that you will certainly not be involved in this at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109274	Let's stick to the law together now the coral thing. Mrs. Mariana Puljak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109275	Dear colleague, I didn't mean to replicate, but you encouraged me at the beginning when you said that today we had a meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture where we discussed this law and in some kind of accelerated express way and then we came here to the assembly and discuss it in the assembly, but I actually wanted to show you that this is a common practice now with all the committees, all the laws. Somehow I've heard in previous councils that the practice has been that these committees work perhaps a much more serious day before and have people have time actually given themselves time to discuss on boards, and then come to meetings like this already with some prepared and prepared conclusions and suggestions and know then and then we're more useful in the debate here in the assembly. And as a matter of fact, the committees are listening, so I don't know most of them come out on the board and we come up somehow. here in the assembly without any concrete results. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109276	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109277	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Puljak, yes, we have proposed several times in this regard a change of rules of procedure and we really think that we should find a way for maybe one week to create intensive committee sessions of those who are necessary in this agenda and plan and schedule of discussions to then maybe once again a week or two be, I don't know what part of the debate of plenary, but certainly the committees must not be completely pro-form where most of them come and fully praise. The only thing I've seen on that board today, you've had a chance to commend yourself, but that's something everyone's been looking for for for a long time, and that's years of funding. Well, that's not what this government and this ministry, years of funding, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109278	Thank you very much. It's a long talk about committees, and there's a lot to talk about and a number of committees, but we don't have time for this right now, but we have time to listen to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109279	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Matul, I'm going to rely on what Mariana Puljak was talking about. So, in my view, the two key changes that must happen if we are talking about a segment of culture, the first one that concerns the work of all HS's competent working bodies and HS's work as such, which is that a larger initiative is transferred to parent committees that will not wait a day before or on the day of discussion in HS to say something of their own but will proactively monitor what is happening in a sector and then present their proposals and solutions. And the other thing is, as we're going to do in culture at all, I've already had a little fight with the minister. I well know what a public tender is, a public invitation, and where appointments are made without anything, but it's still a big problem that culture is politicised and used for political entourages and until we change that Croatia will not go forward. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109280	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109281	Thank you. Honorable representatives of Oreskovic, yes, culture is politicised in that poor sense. I could agree with Madam Minister that normally if you come and get the legitimacy of the voters that it's normal for you to choose at a given moment when it comes to you to choose those people you think you'll be spending in this case that you'll recognize the cultural values and those goals that you recognize yourself. Yeah, and in that sense, you'll do just as much as you brag about having pluralism inside that and that, and it'll work out. We who at this point are talking about being ready, and we're in power for a year, if we lose this power, it's going to be someone else's or, that we're willing to take it now to new councils under the new law because it's a new appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109282	Thank you very much. Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109283	Comrade Matul, you mentioned how this law really is pushed under strange circumstances in which the Resorial Parent Committee is convened a few hours before the debate. We see that the law was written under some veil of secrets, and I hear that the Law of Theatres is also being cooked somewhere. But what I'm interested in is explaining how you explain the fact that the law is first forced and that we still don't have a national policy or national development plan for culture and media from 2022 to 2027. It reminds me of that story with the Law on Agricultural Land and COMMASSATION when, when the ministry pushed laws to subsequently adopt a strategy instead of going the other way to make a strategy for a certain period and then come from it and the law if changes are needed in that direction which would be logical, but obviously we don't see things the same as the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109285	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Glasovac, that is exactly what many actors on the cultural scene were looking for and that is why they sought a broad public debate. What makes them think that this law is above all bad is because they really don't see any strategic bases that would have been established, on the basis of which the analysis was passed here, which were proposals in that working group, which have passed the proposals, I guess we see here, but which proposals in that working group haven't passed, and the minister told us that after this law, the colleague said that people think that it should actually be two laws apart, and the minister told us that after this law that she was so quick to adopt strategically, that the strategy for culture and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109286	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109287	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Matula, this law should regulate the area of financing public needs in culture. These public needs in culture can only be met by artistic and cultural workers, so people who live and are in increasingly difficult material conditions. If we know that the ministry's budget is growing nominally, it has now increased by some 250 million kunas, and the funds paid for dramatic and musical stage art, cultural art amateurism, magazines, libraries, dances, art programs, museum gallery activities, etc. They shrink by as much as 11 million kunas, how can we talk about financing public needs when we don't have, we didn't actually predict the material conditions that these people could achieve, or which these people could have these needs in culture and so in our society, how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109288	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109289	Thank you. Comrade Ahmetovic, that's the problem. The minister said to a certain extent that she was proud to say that she still moved from 0.57 and that we are now approaching 1%. However, these very programming and funds that are precisely needed, which is why all these institutions in this case at national level, which is why we have them if inside that happens that the funds, the programming funds aren't enough, then at some point people will ask me if the gas is this expensive now, if these people have that kind of pay, and what they're actually doing if there aren't enough software.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109290	You have no more replicas, thank you very much for your presentation and now it's time for Mrs. Devereaux. Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109291	Thank you. Your Honor, I'll pick up where I left off, so... I would like to add in this article that for a member of the Governing Council by the founders that it would not happen to go into reinterpretation or any insufficiently good interpretation that this applies to members of the house. And what I stood for and while I was saying on behalf of the club that as a member of the council, he could be an extremely prominent worker in culture because we really have artists and culturalists who are affirmed, without a degree, but their works and their entire career are their 3 diplomas. And I will repeat that it is particularly concerned that it is prescribed that the cultural councils elected under the old law in the cultural councils remain after the adoption of this law in office because it is really not clear why this law was so hasty because if they really want to make changes, then it is necessary to change the council. After all these ambiguities, I am also talking about my club debate, the indeterminateness of changes that do not actually bring about fundamental changes that would really upgrade the cultural system is the question of why this law is even brought into this once too closed process that excluded some of the key stakeholders of the cultural system. And our warm proposal is to move on to a new cycle, to wait for the National Development Plan of Culture and Media, because if it was waited for so many years we really don't see a single reason not to wait another year, and then, on the basis of the strategic plan, we would say two laws for these two sensitive fields and include as wide a professional and interested public. Dear Minister, in autumn 2016, the cultural public was satisfied, in part even more with your appointment. It was believed in your education, in your knowledge of the sector, in the experience of working in the state administration. It even agreed to political differences by believing in your expertise and knowledge. It was believed and hoped that the decision-making processes would be at least as inclusive as that of Minister Biskupic and Minister Mesic in whose administrations you were in high positions. You don't care. Mind and desire to improve the culture and art sector were believed to overcome ideological differences. As the proposed laws stemming from the Ministry of Culture that you are conducting, as far as these laws are concerned, there is only one common unity between the otherwise very incompetent cultural and artistic scene. Because proposals strike on the heart and the essence of artistic and cultural action by giving directors and bureaucracy even greater powers, workers are left in the uncertainty of working on certain and over-realing, and there is no overall vision of development and care for this broad field. What happened? Why are you, Madam Minister, why are you so far away from workers and cultural workers? Why did you narrow it down so much, so far away from the public? Why are your associates often directors and very rarely performers or cultural workers? Does this apply to this law and to all those who are in preparation for us? When did this happen? How did that happen? You were in those administrations and Minister Biskupić and Mesic. These are the periods during which laws were passed that were adopted by most professions and institutions were established on very broad democratic grounds such as HAVC. In your term of office, they have not been considered, let alone the key system and the necessary changes. The original belief in ability, in the possibility of dialogue, in inclusiveness was quickly broken and a real picture came out, the inability to have the necessary communication, the lack of understanding for the needs of the sector, the absence of transparent processes and the non-acceptability of the diversity of such a dominant field of culture and art. Minister, return to your base for our good and yours. Listen to the profession, read, review comments and proposals from the public debate, and believe me, the law or laws will be implemented that will certainly satisfy the needs of the cultural field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109292	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Annka's respected representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109293	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Raukar-Gamulin. So, I'm going to refer to what you said when you were discussing on behalf of the club or now in an individual debate that there really are respected cultural workers who don't have a college degree. So I have to admit it's really this small comparison. I, when I studied the architecture of my very few professors, had a Ph.D. So it wasn't common in architecture studies, but during time, because of their experience and other things, they also received certain academic titles and were members of both the academy and everything else. If that was possible then, I don't see why it's not possible now. I don't think it's supposed to be a rule, I think it's supposed to be an exception. But I certainly think it would be good for the second reading, that one remark you've already given the ministry accepts. Because when we go, you know, with the amendments, it never ends well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109294	Thank you. Thank you for the replica, question or determination. I agree with you, of course. There are a lot of people in culture, especially in art who haven't finished those colleges and I think it's right in culture and art that should be least important and at least stick to those formalities. Okay. Yes, let it be an exception, but let that exception be made possible for us. Some big names I don't want to call anyone now, but some big names of Croatian actresses have never graduated. And then when we remember in which flood of purchased diplomas or prescribed PhDs we now live, then unfortunately I think we should make it possible for those who have acquired at least three degrees in our lives to participate in cultural and administrative councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109295	The next replica of Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109296	Dear colleagues Raukar, I didn't come from this world but I know a lot of artists and I know how to actually burnout, overtime, inability to pay for the directing actually their everyday life. And their rights are broken every day. We see that some of the efforts of the Ministry of Culture are intended or are committed out of ignorance actually leaving more and more artists to free artists, but in that sense free of work. And given that this part of art is just femininized in some way by how you comment on this incredible need of the HDZ government that through each, absolutely every resort is accounted for by women in a way that has destroyed their so far hard acquired but quite low material and working and general life rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109297	Thank you. I thank you for the replica. I've got a lot of things to say, so what I'm sure is, the hardest thing amongst the culturers, the artists are on an independent stage. These are our colleagues and colleagues who live really under the conditions of over-real, those are the people who live on the edge of poverty, and some of them are God's people over that edge. Especially when it comes to pandemics, I have repeatedly said here that these people have only received 4 support in the pandemic, unlike all economic operators who have received monthly support for keeping their jobs, and they have been told that they have competitions, so they can report, unfortunately in the contests, not all those who were in need were satisfied, and on the side of this economy were satisfied, and here we see this That imbalance. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109298	Next replica, respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Raukar Gamulin, in your debate, you spoke among other things about how cultural councils are sort of dissipated and that the balance of power and decision-making is actually moving towards, according to the director or directors and directors of cultural institutions. It might not be a bad thing to repeat once again, which is why you think it's a bad thing and in fact which would be some kind of a better alternative, a better way to get rid of it, and maybe possibly what kind of implications it might have for citizens and citizens, in which way they'll feel the harmfulness of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109300	Thank you. So it's about administrative councils and I've been talking about administrative councils. What I'm going to say again is why it's not good that the administrative councils are not defined by anything in this law. The Minister said they were defined by the Law on Institutions, I accept, but I believe that this law should also be better defined. This law concerns a culture center, like a culture center, about a culture home. So it concerns those institutions in culture that are the most widespread in our country. And these are the places that should be open places for their local environments, which is why we think it is important for them to be representatives of the local community and to influence, to have an impact on the work of these cultural institutions that should be more open to their local environments. That's why I'm appealing, yeah, okay, thanks. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109301	You're done. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of State Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, and why I have been in the front row several times already to try to remove further debates about things that are not written in the law. So, I'm asking you to read all the draft laws that are ahead of us. So nowhere in the law does it say that the members of the cultural council are prescribed a high professional cook, it simply doesn't write. But they're in your replicas, I'm not talking to you now, so I'm talking to the replicas, so it's not true, it's prescribed for the administrative council. If the director who manages the institution has to have a high professional capacity of conviction himself, and we have repeated that we have introduced into other laws that also those who oversee his or her work, and firstly in part of the financial reports, work programmes, etc., should also have adequate equipment. I don't want to bring up here what kind of cases we have in small local areas where the principals of the library are overseeing people who have graduated from colleges are doing a responsible professional work on some party key supervised by people who have nothing to do with it but have come for some key city councils and I'm going to repeat my booklet to the local plumbing. I think that this, that this is something that we are improving the dignity of people who work in culture and people who run institutions in culture. Please, when we use terms, so they're not free artists, but they're independent artists, HDZ governments certainly don't deal with women, and I don't know how to say that at all. The HDZ government, in contrast, was not in the assembly, the SDP government in which you were alone with 0.56 increased the culture budget by 1. This was done by the HDZ government, for the benefit of institutions, directors, artists and how you like to say workers and workers in the culture of everyone. So I ask you to be useful, it is useful to use data and to present if possible some concrete suggestions. As far as the public debate is concerned, we have listened, read, analyzed, followed many suggestions, every concrete proposal we hear we will consider. But I urge both your parliamentary representatives and your MPs to give us concrete suggestions. Representatives Raukar Gamulin thank you for this commendation of my work in earlier terms. I think that this work is now further advanced, that we have improved transparency, we are working with professional associations, with representatives of different areas, our doors are open, we have formed a whole series of special ad hoc commissions, we have opened up some topics that no one has ever dealt with, huge investments in access to digital, we have launched competitions to adapt cultural contents to people with disabilities, we have launched public development programmes, we have strengthened, let's say, a good project that we inherited from the previous mandate of Minister Zlatar Violić, we are running an inclusive cultural policy, and this law is, as I have said more than unfortunately, a large part of the representatives and MPs who have now not heard our reasoning, indeed one attempt and the intention that these fundamental, fundamental, fundamental regulations concerning financing, make them more transparent, more predictable, more secure, and then will certainly contribute to the amount of the right and the right of the right to us to the right way of thinking, and the right way of thinking that we can be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to understand in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109303	Here's a few replicas. First is Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109304	Thank you. Dear Minister, you've heard commendations for your former mandates, and I'd rather have you hear calls to return to your employees, to your cultural workers, I hope you'll listen again to this debate. You've touched the competition, so I'm taking advantage of the opportunity of public needs in a culture with people with disabilities, but let's say in that competition you don't have, you have the opportunity to register only civil society organisations, but there's no cost of pay, no costs of regular business, only fees. Now, this is exactly what one person with disabilities writes to me, so I'm looking at a cell phone, a range of funding from 20 to 200 grand, and now someone's supposed to be running a program for 200 grand without any employees. I want to tell you that we also see on this example how unfortunately in most parts the ministry is away from its base, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109305	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109306	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. You come from a culture area, it's hard to always react like this when you get some messages, so you don't see the whole thing. I wish you'd looked at that public call, I'd like to see tomorrow after this law is passed that the cities, including the City of Zagreb and other cities launch such ad hoc competitions that will become regular at least in the case of the Ministry of Culture, adapting cultural contents to people with disabilities. If you are unable to support it, I am sorry, if you are unable to support it to adapt the contents of cultural persons with disabilities and that you have some kind of comment I am sorry, then we are not really looking at the same job that we should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109307	The next replica honors Mariana Puljak. I've called you already, please, and then we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109308	Okay. I will agree here with the minister in this section in which you said that in the administrative councils therefore the names of persons with high expertise are named and that I absolutely agree with your explanation it has been, indeed, administrative councils are some kind of prey as you say two in the waterway, three in the HEP, and four in the golden door or what are called institutions in culture. Perhaps the progress there would still be, I don't know, I'm going to give an example in Split that, not only are they named here but it's also organized to organise a public call for that part, so maybe there's a bigger spectrum of people. I can say that at a public call in Split for all places in the administrative councils, about 150 people appeared, so there are people who are interested when they are convinced that they will be chosen according to some criteria of the profession, so one proposal for improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109309	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109310	We in this law actually edit that small part of the issue of governance of institutions which is let's say specific for institutions in culture and we didn't go too far outside the framework of the Law on Institutions. So I am not sure that such a provision in the law would be widely accepted, nor widely implemented, but why not if some JLS in such a way want to perhaps contribute to some transparency of the process, etc., nothing restricts them from doing so. In general, we believe in the area of culture that a small part of the issue can really be prescribed, and one major part of the action is what is called political culture, and we all have a little bit more to do at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109311	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238, I think it's not good and it's not in line with political culture just because someone is opposed to the laws, just because they're going to vote against the law, to argue that this means that it's in particular an example against the fact that there are special competitions for people with disabilities, so I don't think that we should label MPs and representatives on their views in this way, and in this colleague Raukar really didn't say that, that's, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109313	Okay, you used this as a replica, you get a warning. Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109314	Dear Ministers, in the law itself, we have a practical report on the movement of investment in culture from the budget and there is a real visible growth from 2016 to 2019 from 0.66 to 0.96. However, we only have for 2016-2019. We don't know what's going on in 2020 and 2021, especially in 2022. Can we get that information?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109315	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, we will certainly provide all the information. It was a covid year, it was a year of earthquakes. The funds of the Ministry of Culture and Media have increased significantly. In addition to the various ad hoc measures we have implemented during covid, we have also provided for the first time 250 million kuna investments in cultural and creative industries through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, 290 million investments to restore, i.e. to build 8 new state archives, which is the note of the obligation of local self-government. So we found a way to help improve the ministry there. I'm counting 100 million kunas now only from the NPO for a conservation project. So, this year 2020 and 2021 in terms of the number and quantity of ad hoc competitions and activities, it really wouldn't be methodologically correct to compare with what was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109316	The next replica, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109317	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister. I can actually understand, understand that you're a little disappointed, so perhaps even bitter since you've already been out here a few times for this pay phone and you're actually trying to point out all the changes, to all these newspapers that this bill makes. However, I would say it's in vain, because I see here no argument actually exists. Or if there are some if we can call them arguments, then it's something that's not at all the subject of this bill. What really bothers me the most here, and I came to you precisely because I find it difficult to listen to hypocrisy, especially by being a city, it's your branch in the city of Varazdin where you represent objectivity, a politicism, represent some great values, advocate artists, and in the city of Varazdin you came to be able to be in the ruling position the first thing you did to destroy HNK in the city of Varazdin with your politics just because someone didn't answer to you because you had your own person. And that's hypocrisy. And it would be good if you applied those attitudes then and here, and not if you had double standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109318	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Well, we've seen, so a lot of these inconsistencies over the past few months, a lot of attacks on directors in different cities, which is saddened by the fact that during the covid, they didn't realize the program they predicted before the crop. But with regard to the conduct of local self-government, there may be another topic we have not touched, and it was pointed out by Mr Krstulovic, I did not say, at the outset. Another topic that we are working on here, which is the obligation that the institution's own resources can only be used to develop the activities of the institution that has achieved them. In fact, we have seen examples where institutions, through their work, make their own resources their own projects. But since they're part of the treasure they take away their assets and make payments for something else. After this law, it won't be possible anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109319	Next replica, respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109320	Dear Minister, in your debate, you referred to HDZ raising the culture budget to 1% and that's true. And every honor of it, but to be honest, I think the second part of your comment was that it wasn't the SDP that did it without defending the SDP as SDP. I'm more defending myself in that sense because that comment concerns me somewhat and it concerns you know for what reasons, we discussed it in that stands. That was in the program, the truth of the matter. So that's what it would be if it were a category. But not only did more political options in these elections where HDZ actually, after which HDZ formed the government, had in its programmes to raise the culture budget by 1%, so without diminishing in any way the fact that you did. Here's only in light of your comment that you did it, and someone else can't know if anyone else might have done it. I thought I was wondering that, definitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109321	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109322	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I have commented on it, otherwise I am not a percentage person because I am in culture and research I know how many they are, you can show them one way or another Croatia is very decentralised in terms of responsibility at the level of local self-government. So when we look at total public funding, it is more important than in many European countries, regardless of the share of the Ministry of Culture. It is good that many parties had that goal. I would like all parties to set as many goals as possible in all elections because it will be for the sake of culture. I made that percentage exclusively for comments by the SDP representative, who said HDZ is counting on the said free artists. They're not free, they're independent artists, so then somehow it came to dealing with women. It's something that has so much to do with this law, that I actually should have skipped it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109323	Thank you, Minister. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109324	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I'd like to look back on the other articles I didn't want to look back on before. First Article 14 on the provision of space owned by the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local self-government for use, i.e. in the substantiation of cultural institutions, i.e. cultural institutions. What's this about? It's just that we're gonna give them a building or space at the base first, and then we're gonna give the money to pay for it. Wouldn't it be better if they were temporarily leased without money or for use, if that money wasn't turned from hollow to empty? There is no need for this because they are financed from both the state budget and the budget of the unit of local self-government, and it is said that local self-government units and the Republic of Croatia can rent these premises. Furthermore, I'm going to skip some of these other articles now, so I'm going to jump to Article 40 and later on Article 41 to the principals. The Directors, means the directors of a culture establishment which is the founder and all other co-founder of units of local and regional self-government appoints and resolves the executive body or the executive bodies of several founders by agreement, the way in which the public tender for the appointment of directors is opened shall be governed by the statute of the institution and by the contract of the founders. Now, in the former law this was more specific, it specifically stated in the last part of Article 5(2) that it was actually appointed to the proposal of the administrative councils of the institutions and, in the opinion of the professional or artistic staff of those institutions. And of course it states in paragraph 4 that the appointment of a director of a public institution in culture requires the prior opinion of the competent cultural council. That's what happened before. Wouldn't it be good if we still had that, given that it would be bad if we didn't have any opinions, professional councils, because it actually creates a space for non-transparent appointment. The duration of the term of office and the possibility of re-nomination were also left to be settled in the statute, however, the question of what will be written in the statute, so if it is not a problem to regulate it in the law. We think that would be good. And now to jump to Article 41(2), there are many critics who have criticised you for saying that, after the Director's duties have been resolved and after the term of office of a person who has previously acted on duty and who has been employed indefinitely in an institution in culture, he has the right to return to work or schedule the same complexity of jobs for which the same degree of education is prescribed and the need for working experience in equal duration or the right to return to work with the employer, where he was in a working relationship with an indefinite period prior to the start of the principal's duties without carrying out a public tender, and as they draw closer to the arrangement with the employer. The position of the Social Democrats is that this part is okay because who's smart enough to leave a permanent working relationship and go to the headmaster and then wonder where they're going to work. However, what is not said here is not said how many mandates, as far as the mandate is concerned. Does this apply only to one term of office or to several terms of office? So that's not defined in Article 41(4). Furthermore, I'm not going to problem it now, but the question is whether it can be applied to others who have not been employed in culture, but may have been employed in some other activities, which are in the management of the state, for example. Here's education or science. Furthermore, there are more, there are other articles that we have, which are controversial to us, I hope that what I have told you before in the name of the club and now as an individual discussion, because we think that all these suggestions and suggestions are good and that they will really improve this first law, and secondly, I think that it will help everyone not to question any non-transparent appointment or conjecture, and I think we really need this nowadays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109325	Replica, respected representative Andreja Maric. You have a replica, please stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109326	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, that, in addition to this Article 41, which you have commented on, I have seen little of this public consultation, so the different qualifications are related to the possibility that the director of the institution may, at the end of the term of office if he has moved from the institution A to the institution B is in the position of director, so there are some different views on whether or not he is being kept at the workplace, whether he is returning to his former permanent post. I think give a little bit of an explanation of this, the answer of the promoter in public consultation is that the intention is to allow the mobility of experts in institutions in culture. A little, please, here's a little bit of an explanation for your attitude. It wasn't very clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109327	Here's why I'm taking that attitude and I think it's the right approach. I was hereby appointed to the administration of a company, but the company I worked in earlier did not give me a contract to return to that workplace. So I'm about to do a four-year term there to do the jobs they were supposed to do, left that firm, but after this company I was in, it didn't give me a job where I kept working, I'd be out of a job, and I don't think that's right. If they need you, if they call you because you have some kind of profession, you have some kind of knowledge, then I think it's correct to ensure that you return to the workplace where you worked. Otherwise who's going to agree to that? Who's going to leave for 4 years and after that, especially if people are younger and then wonder what they're going to do for the next few years or I don't know... Here, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109328	Replica is another, respected representative of Andro Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109329	Dear Mr. Pavic, you've made an excellent point of what we talked about before. The elected officials, directors or directors of individual sectors selected in the competition should be able to return to an appropriate post-term post through this law even better and more eloquent Ms. Minister. That's what you witnessed with your own experience. It's easy to be hypocritical when you weren't in a position of individual directors. If it falls off as some have said this possibility of returning to a previous workplace or a suitable job, you said well no one will answer because the directors are not as well as people think, nor have good wages, nor are they protected. They do not have a collective contract, they have a contract and great responsibilities and the least we can do is protect those hardworking professionals so that after their term of office they can return peacefully and do a job for which they are educated and for which they have exceptional experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109330	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109331	Now, even though it's rare that we have to agree with you at the conclusion, I say rarely that we agree, but here's what we agree on, I think it's true and without it we won't have professionals in the right places, and if we don't have professionals we'll have a bad one to say it's not a favor, but we'll have bad institutions in culture. And if those people who come there are really gonna be relieved of what they're up to, after four years, I think they're gonna be better and better and they're gonna work better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109332	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109333	The opposition is tasked with criticising, of course, finding faults and offering solutions. Unfortunately, often when a bill is good and superseded and sometimes the opposition tries to find a flaw and then there's some kind of populism going on. I find it interesting here to hear two people who should have said something to me, and since the cultural workers were either, perhaps still from the Moto-Moste, Raukar in Matula, and other than intonation and cardiac tone, I haven't heard anything. So, except that it's all bad and upside down, and there's some tear gas in the eyes, we haven't actually heard a single concrete remark, and that's what's wrong. Another thing if I were to say about this law here, and I believe that many will understand it, here I believe that my colleague Oprah will understand it, but also other colleagues, when we talk about culture and in general and financing culture, Croatian culture is our heritage long ago, and it was in its core that Christian culture, Christianity and the Church kept and inherited culture throughout the centuries, and this is why we have the culture that we have today. Culture has not been since 1945 or since the '80s or the '90s culture is from long before and music and all kinds of art, but of course also the construction culture and that immovable cultural goods. Now, specifically, even though the minister has already answered me through a replica, I will repeat once again what I know about something and then one specific question. So, there are many associations in culture, there are many organizations that are specialized and can also find co-financing for the cold drive, and you told me "Cultura Nova" I looked at what it is, these are actually exclusively associations dealing with the production of the art programme, there are associations such as "Juraj Dalmatinac" in Sibenik, the Society for the Conservation of the Sibenik Heritage, which deal with the preservation of immovable cultural goods and which cannot compete in these competitions. And just one small remark, and for one conversation, perhaps in some subsequent period, when tenders of that kind are being submitted to the association, I believe that the proposition should also include a small part of the funding provided for in the cold-drive financing. Volunteering is something that means one of the great values of every society, and of course Croatian, but here, of course, the associations of the team should also be helped to institutionalise and to professionalise through these funds. Here I don't want to talk about this anymore. Anyway, I don't think the law is bad. Maybe here's just another little note about high school and high school in the boards of directors, yes, of course it's okay and it should be supported anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109334	We have one replica, Your Honor... They're working. Here you go. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109335	It's not Ivan. It's Shime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109336	They're doing Simičević. Go ahead. Return time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109337	Okay, thank you, Vice President HS. And I forgive a colleague who notes, I guess he'll remember me for a while. Here's short, you said in the introduction that the opposition is the one that criticises, but it also offers a solution, so whether it's always the way we're not going to talk about it now, but something from our own experience when elections and appointments are. [[Intruder Zekanovic: He will be fired.]] I worked at school and I had a contract for an indefinite time, when I became director I got a contract for a certain time and clearly that it became a problem and here I absolutely commend the minister and I want this to remain in the law since the role of director and the job of director is such that under the bat of everything and everything and that after the term of office has passed he remains unchosen on the street. I also disagree that with this being only two mandates since then actually those who run either the theatre or any other institution cannot contribute and solve certain problems that have arisen inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109338	.../Speakers speak at the same time./... Comrade Simičević, I will agree with you. Unfortunately, today, although it is hard to say because whoever listens and has a pension of 1000-2000 kunas will say that, they will be puzzled, but today unfortunately, managers of such institutions are underpaid in terms of education and the work they do. Today, but that's all the more obvious, that's what I'm going to be, here I'm going to break through that ice, but that's going to be talked about in general. Everything that is financed from the state budget of public money is paid off and we will have a problem with negative selection, in the long run, naked, from HS to lower. We have solid salaries in relation to someone, but I will responsibly say that ceramics, car parkers, marbles, have bigger salaries than MPs in HS and I'm not against it, but the problem is negative selection. It's something we have to solve at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109339	Next replica, Mr. Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, I will refer to the part of your presentation in which you said that our culture is a Christian culture. She's not just Christian, so go one step further, she's pre-Christian, she's, I think the whole antique we have in Croatia, which, especially in Croatia, resulted in rich material and immaterial heritage, after all, here's an example. The amphitheater in Pula is the sixth largest Roman amphitheater in the world, the only one in the world where all three rows are preserved, so it was built in pre-Christian times, practically means somewhere during the 1st century, and before this amphitheater stood another smaller wooden place, so these are some things that really mark to a very significant extent and materially and immaterially and what came later, so I don't want to deny what you said just wouldn't want to, that we think it's the only beginning because the Christian roots of Europe ultimately have some background that was before them, they're in context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109341	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109342	Comrade Glavasevic, that's what you said, it's like you're comparing a step I don't know Usain Bolt or I don't know Ben Johnson when he had, when he was just walking and later when he broke the world record and ran under 10 seconds 100 meters. So, when Christianity started, and it started from the Roman Empire because the Roman Empire expanded Christianity... It's funny, it's really funny, and don't be ashamed to say it either, because without the Christianity of culture, it wouldn't be in our space, so in Europe culture rests on Christianity like it or not, so we're a Christian continent, believe me, and you know it, but here you obviously don't like it, so you're trying to relativate it a little bit, but the Christian continent we were, and if we're going to stay, that's the question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109343	Next is the individual debate of the respected Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109344	Here's a thank you. Now I'm just going to add a few things that I didn't get to discuss on behalf of the club, so that article by article. First I will say about this part again about the directors and ensuring their jobs after leaving the director's post or their term of office etc.. I don't know what practice it is, here I didn't really get to question what practice is out there, I say here's for sure the practice in education, with us two mandates is maximum, after that there's no more keeping the job, is there any way I understand this problem that probably won't be people answering then it's nice to have the safety of this and be sure what happens after 4 years. The term of office or how long the term of office has been, but I say, an example of education, and there is a limit for our job insurance. And I'm also just saying, I'm not a cultural worker either, these all comments are from some people who worked in culture, some of them, some of them were directors, and some of those directors actually made an observation about that particular parachute, let's call it so colaquietal. Here they say, therefore, in Articles 11 to 13 of the draft, it is necessary to unify the terminology related to the business documentation of institutions in culture, the work programme and the programme plan of programme activities, and the report on the implementation of the programme plan of activities, or the financial report. Further, Art. 29. prescribes the possibility of a user objecting to the allocation of financial resources. We believe that the regulation solves this area in a better and more detailed manner, and we propose that the regulation clearly specify which rights to object to those users whose programmes have been rejected for co-financing, and which they propose to co-finance or who are not satisfied with the proposed financial amount. Finally, we also consider it important to note in accordance with the orders and recommendations of the State Office for Audit, and the Office for Internal Audit, this is a concrete proposal from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, as well as, the Primorje-Gorski County, through the Administrative Department of Culture's activities, conducts a public tender to meet public needs in the area of culture according to the Regulation on criteria, criteria and funding procedures. That tender has been implemented since 2016, so we consider it necessary before the adoption of the Law on Cultural Councils to resolve whether the colitision resulting from the implementation of the Regulation and, by the Ministry of Culture and Media, to provide complete, accurate and unambiguous information in which way and in accordance with what JLS acts, public tenders must be conducted to meet the public needs and to comply with the State Office for Audit and the Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Further than the following remarks, we can only point out that we have seen that some are actually rebelling at the establishment of cultural councils for JLS with more than 10,000 inhabitants, but according to the latest census and demographics, it shows whether some units of local self-government have fallen below 20,000 inhabitants, if there is no cultural council going and a lighter version of a commission being named by some decree. So it's much better to have, to have a council and therefore, the composition of the council and vary and it's not even any special cost. Also, a note about, specifically, the orchestras, why the orchestras came out of the theater. So that's what we're waiting for right now for that new theater law not to say that it has a lot of objections like this in advance about this, about that theater. Is there talk of what it will look like, what all the provisions this one will bring. Some call it here when you're talking about orchestras, the death of culture. Most of our theatres are much more than theaters, regional cultural centres are the only professional bodies, and now with this flexibility, is that I am not going into this law in particular, which announces that there will be no employment indefinitely whether it is some kind of, some kind of fear, but mostly thought that the orchestras are then inserted into this law to sort of protect themselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109345	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109346	Dear Minister, Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, today in our first reading, we are discussing a new law that essentially doesn't change too much about things at least that's my impression. In fact, it unites as it says in the transitional provisions of entry, it unites three laws that will, therefore, go out of force. So it's the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture and the Law on Cultural, on Cultural Councils. You have to admit and say one thing is very, very complex matter because it's always a question especially in culture, far from it being complex in both sports and technical culture, but there are things that are much more measurable, and in general both cities and counties and municipalities in particular have a community of technical culture, a community of sports which then budgetally define these gauges then they themselves distribute that money. In art, culture is a much more complex thing. And what has to be achieved is only transparency. So we can write such and such a law but the question always remains for the transparency of the distribution of that money. The responsibility is certainly on both the executive bodies themselves and on the cultural councils themselves. And practice has shown, unfortunately, that still happens, unfortunately, some things happen. So, when we talk about cultural councils, ma co-worker Ivanovic talked about it before, so from before there were committees dealing with culture, technical culture depending on the statutes of a particular unit of local or regional self-government that far from being deposed, they are not, but they have one other system, and these are cultural councils which are now appointed by this de facto executive authority, which is ultimately the executive authority here is about the mayor, the mayor or the mayor because it is about people directly elected by citizens to do so have full, full legitimacy to do so, to do so. And responsibility is certainly on them. But what will often happen in cultural councils, which is to make money for each other. So we have initiatives, or legitimate doubts, which times, of course, and of those who have not received certain financial resources for certain customerelism or clientelistic relations in such a way that, when someone in conflict of interest is exempt from voting, they are simply exempted but this and so on, they are exempt from voting on the means which are intended. And the answer, and the problem is that part of the conflict of interest, of course, is difficult to expose, and then the question is which condition is, perhaps it's not a matter of professional preparation, but one that, therefore, which is a member of the board of directors has to, in my opinion, that cultural council has to reconcile with that fact that he's not going to get the funds, not the associations, or anything else, who, who, who it is, because this one is going to, first we're going to exclude one association that deals with one activity, and then this second one, the other association, and everyone is going to be excluded and they're all going to be clean, and in fact it's not clean. That's unfortunately, that's unfortunately, often the way it is. When we talk about that part of the remarks are of course principled because we are in the first reading, I listened carefully and so did my colleague Pavić, and this is about the appointment of a director who, of course, agreedly, and in accordance with the acts of the founders, acts on the establishment of the institution itself in culture, the question of returning to work says an agreement with the employer. It is now a question of who the employer is, because ultimately the executive authority appoints, so it is time for the executive authority as an employer if it is not otherwise defined as the administrative council that he can then sign the agreement which is related to the return to work because otherwise we can very flexiblely interpret such a provision as it is and the current director may also sign an agreement with himself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109347	Following the final debate, the first registered on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Andro Krstulović Opar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have discussed this law well, which unites three laws that I will not say obsolete but that time has passed because they regulated the state of the cultural sector twenty years ago. Now with a simple, clear and completely transparent law, I am convinced we are speeding up the engine of cultural scene, cultural and creative industry and we are enabling clearer rules in this very important sector. When I say clearer rules, we remember a lot of the emphasis from this debate in which several conditional points were said, but finally, thanks to the very high-quality debates both on the one hand and on the other, we agreed that it was a document which your services of the Minister may still complete and explain in those segments that will strengthen and strengthen and ensure a better position of the Director after their term of office. That's one thing. The other thing we talked about, we also talked about the importance, the possibility that the mayor, the mayor, would municipally appoint directors in cultural institutions, not to be done by some other particularly not municipal or city councils, not representative but executive power. Because it is the mayors who take responsibility for the management of their cities and cities, and it is their turn to use that mandate in their fullness. It is also important to highlight something that we did not mention here, which is that rules have also been laid down for the appointment of members of the National Council for Culture, which is unusually important, an important body that will help the Minister and the Minister in the development of both activities and in the management of the funds. I look forward to another reading, and I am sure that today's content debate and proposals on many sides will help make the law even better. He's very needed. He will give a boost to the creative and creative industry, but also to the development of Croatian culture as we had the opportunity to hear it is one of the important elements in achieving the recognition of Croatia in Europe, and I would say in the world. Because our cultural identity is based on a number of foundations that we can develop in one quality way. I therefore call on all respected colleagues and colleagues to support this text and to give support to the quality law in the next period when it comes to this debate by looking forward to other law packages from your cultural sector, which as far as I can see, and which will improve the situation as my colleague Brcic says, is looking forward to improving. I think we're all here for something like that. Thank you for your attention and let's move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109349	The next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP-respected representatives of Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109350	I agree with my colleague. First of all, I hope some suggestions will be appreciated. So I would like to make some suggestions to address the problem of cultural and artistic amateurism, to legally establish the establishment and functioning of communities of amateur cultural and artistic associations or activities in the field of regional self-government and the city of Zagreb in order to achieve common interests in culture and art. That units of local self-government ensure a minimum of 0.3% of their income for regular work and community action of amateur, cultural and artistic associations. Since cultural and artistic amateurism associations are not provided with stable financial support by units of local self-government while associations in sport and technical culture are provided with the basis of the Law on Sports and the Law on Technical Culture it is necessary to prescribe a legal minimum of 0.3% of the income of units of local self-government for the regular work of cultural and artistic amateur organisations at the level of the same. The Council should be established in all units of local self-government. According to the draft councils, they are established for the area of the county, the city of Zagreb, and a city with more than 10,000 inhabitants in order to evaluate and evaluate among them the programmes notified on a public call. This would mean that in a number of units of local self-government that provide significant financial resources, none of the artists, experts and cultural workers are worthy of or evaluated by programmes registered on public calls, which does not lead to the role of cultural councils in creating and achieving the cultural policies listed in the draft. In this case, public needs in culture will be decided by elected political representatives, which should certainly be avoided for many reasons. The possibility provided by the draft that the councils can set up other cities and municipalities if those assessments are not intended to be realised, because neither the current Law on Cultural Councils was established in those units of local and regional (regional) self-government where they were to be established, and thus the fact that there is no list of established and functional councils at the level of the Republic of Croatia nor is such a type of data collected. If the councils are not established in all units of local self-government, then the public funds of the local self-government unit will be shared in a non-transparent way without evaluation based on criteria and then without achieving public objectives. If a unit of local self-government establishes only one council for all activities and areas, it is required to appoint one member of the council who is a cultural worker or expert in the field of cultural and artistic amateurism. To today's cultural practice, local and regional regional self-government units which have established only one council for all activities and areas do not generally choose for members of their cultural councils of cultural and artistic amateurs, resulting in a growing financial support for this area being equally financially supported by all associations of cultural and artistic amateurism precisely because of the lack of recognition of the individual achievements of these associations. Such practice is counterproductive because it detimises the work of these associations that achieve more noticeably not only cultural but also artistic results. It is precisely because of its presence in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia that the mass of cultural art associations, or the number of members who gather their traditions and continuity, and the significant cultural and social importance that stems from activities carried out by cultural and artistic amateurism associations, that is to say, it is necessary to regulate legally the selection of a member of the council in the field of cultural and artistic amateurism in order to create better conditions for the work of these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109351	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109352	Thank you. Here I'll continue to have two points that I would suggest, if it's possible to accept. It is, again, the directors of cultural institutions. Namely, in Art. The 39th century 1 states that the institution in culture is governed by the director. The current law states that the administrative council is run by the institution, and the director represents and manages the institution. Since this is otherwise defined now, I think that the tasks of the Board of Directors and Directors should be set up, in order to see the difference between the tasks and responsibilities of both bodies so far, given that the Law on Institutions defines the responsibilities of the Director and the Governing Council differently. Also, now get into art. 35 Preserves that the administrative board manages the institution, and 36 The Law on Institutions prescribes that the Administrative Council adopts a programme of work and development and oversees the same as the fact that the composition of the Governing Council should be largely composed of experts in culture, as I have already noted in my comment on the article. 37 of this law. And another note is related to the article. 41. Here we believe that in St. 1 where it says that the director of an institution in culture could be appointed as a person who has completed a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or a specialist degree professional study or an equal study of how decisions on professional, working and organisational skills are made, and fulfils the other conditions of a specific law, an act establishing an institution and its statute. We feel that this may need to be replaced, since this article can be interpreted twofold. So this article can be interpreted in a way that can be named by that person, but also by another person. The intention is good in the article itself, but I think this one might have to be replaced and that we should write that, in every... indicate that it is a person who fulfils the following conditions and thereafter everything else in the article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, if the law does not prescribe a working internship in culture for a driving position, I do not know if we can be sure that this will be prescribed by the statute of the institution. So far, in all the special laws, the internship takes a minimum of 5 years in culture, so we believe that the same should be prescribed here, and also to draw your attention to the fact that the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture has an item that provides that, exceptionally, public institutions in culture can be appointed to persons who, in addition to the conditions of St. 1 of this article, do not have a high level of expertise, if they are highlighted and recognised by cultural experts with at least 10 years of working experience, so try to consider what we have proposed today, there are a lot of proposals, I think all proposals are constructive. We will vote as a Club in this reading for this Law, and we will see how many of our proposals you will accept until the second reading, and then we will consider how we will vote in the final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109353	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's MPs, the respected representatives of Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109354	I would like to thank the chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will finally try to sum up our discussions today, so on behalf of the green-left block. First of all, I'll repeat, we think there's no reason to rush. If it's been waiting until now, it's been years and years, let's wait for a national plan for cultural and media development to be developed to know where it's going to go, what needs to be changed, what needs to be reformed, that we know what analytical bases are, and then let's start making all the necessary new legal solutions. After that, we stressed several times the need to make two laws, for these very demanding fields, I am talking about the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and cultural councils and the Law on the financing and management of public institutions in culture, because this title, in which there is no management of public institutions in culture at all, is simply not, as I would say, an important field simply unacceptable. Furthermore, we do not think it is good that the cultural council is related to the mandate of the minister, the minister, which is what we consider to be a great weakness in their independent position and we believe that they should be restored to the possibility that in key issues such as the allocations of funds will have an impact on the final amounts for the proposed programmes. We have problemed the exception introduced, which is brought to the award of funds without a public call due to the haste of the action caused by the event that the applicant could not have predicted because nowhere does it indicate which events are concrete and we have also problemed the percentage of 5% of the total funding for programmes and projects, we think that we need to think about it further. We do not agree with the lack of regulation of the roles of administrative councils regardless of the Law on Institutions which I have now consulted. At least it is necessary to specify that the Administrative Council oversees the work of the Director or Director, and in particular it is necessary to return it to the law, that administratively, in this proposal of the Law, the Administrative Council carries out a tender with the opinion of the Expert Council if it is also formed with the opinion of the Cultural Councils. The Law on Institutions states that the Administrative Board shall conduct a tender if the other law does not provide otherwise. It means that it is necessary to define this law more closely because it is unacceptable that only the minister or mayor or the mayor choose the directors because it is precisely the return to the direct political setting that we had in some former times. We also believe that it is necessary to bring the Administrative Council to the proposal of the Director and, with the agreement of the Expert Council and the opinion of the Expert Council, if any, to propose programmes and projects for public funding. We certainly believe that it is necessary to specify more precisely the number and method of selecting from the administrative councils of 5 members, for the members of the house, I have set an example of the Hall of Lisinski and Philharmonic, in order for the ratio to be 3-2, not 4-1, and to specify how to select these two members from the house, as set out in the Law on Theatres. We also advocate to allow members of the governing council to be prominent cultural workers. I repeat, there are a number of artists whose diplomas are their work and achievements recognised by both the public and the profession. Indeed, we are opposed to the fact that, after the adoption of this Act, the present members of the cultural council remain in their term simply because the basic reason for the adoption of this new Law is that the change covers cultural councils and changes to their names. And so finally, we appeal to obey the profession. We appeal to stop this process of adopting this concrete law and to wait for the adoption of a strategic plan and then, after that, in a broad, public, transparent debate, to come up with all the necessary laws. This is how we will get laws that will be accepted by the profession and by cultural workers, therefore and by artists, and therefore we invite the minister to hear the voice of the profession and the public for our sakes and for our own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109355	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109356	Thank you. I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who have contributed to this debate and those who have praised and those who have raised criticism, and especially those who have referred to specific topics dealing with this Law. I have to say that I expected a lot more comments about the issues of local self-government, but here, that is largely missing. Perhaps I would only in this final word because I took a word on behalf of the promoter several times, pointed out just a few more topics on which I did not refer because MPs or MPs delivered them either in these final discussions or in their final replicas, or in their statements on behalf of the club. Here I would refer to this whole topic of amateurism for the beginning, so we have very well considered it because all that has been said is actually read the comment of the Croatian Parliament of Culture, but for the beginning, it does not seem acceptable for us to determine the ex-legislatives of local self-government that 0.3% of our budget must be allocated to amateurism. I don't think anyone here would agree, especially since in this House there are many representatives of local self-government, so it's really not acceptable. What I would point out was the comments concerning the definition of funding, the question so-called. the cold drive, i.e. the possibility of financing salaries, but also the relationship between the regulation and the law, this part relating to the relationship between the regulation and the law, is in fact regulated. 1 st. 2. As for the question of percentages for wages, etc., we are now for the first time in art. 9 defined exactly what funding means, which is the means to finance public needs. And so beyond what we have so far understood as institutional funding on the one hand and programming on the other hand, we define precisely, therefore, the means of pay, the author's and the art fees, the means of work, the means of purchasing construction, the means for programmes and projects, the material expenditure, mobility, international cooperation, the training of employees and associates, the means of protection of buildings, the means of investment and investment maintenance and other means, etc. Therefore, any specific invitation to tender at national or local level may be fully legitimately taken into account in relation to, of course, the mass of the resources available. Because if you're sharing some of the things we call them, the micro-supports you provide, the micro-supports, 10 grand, 15 grand, it doesn't make that much sense to cut off one part and for example. pay and it was my reaction to this question regarding the tender for people with disabilities because it is necessary to see how much it is, to adjust the content to people with disabilities because it is necessary to see how much of the funds are actually there and which would mean cutting the percentage from the desired effect. A lot of discussions have been made since the award of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government units, we will carefully analyse all proposals. I just have to point out that this isn't just meant for those who are financed by public funds. This is also an opinion for those who carry out cultural activities, for example bookstores that do not have regular funding systems, but are important as cultural sites, and cannot compete with other commercial content. So there's going to be a possibility that the state has some space or city of its own says, we want to target it for bookstores, and then different entrepreneurs who want to carry out bookkeeping activities will compete for that space. In that sense, this part of the compensation should certainly be retained. With regard to the cultural council, we've been very much discussing this, we'll take into account the proposals that have been made. I am stressing once again for a member or a member of the cultural council the condition of the VSS is not set, and that is something that is meant to be. Whether or not it is necessary, that many of the merited artists who do not have diplomas are objectively all fewer, I will mention that numerous art academys have opened in Croatia in the last 20 years a large number of artists with diplomats are coming out. I find it very difficult to get any engagement, let alone some permanent engagement and in that sense I think we are mature to raise that ladder and that those who manage institutions and those who oversee those who manage should still have adequate education. As far as the other parts of the law are concerned, I think we've touched everything more or less, I'm going to mention just years of funding that we're allowing this law to be ex-legislative. It has not been disabled so far, but we must be aware that it will be one longer transition period while we are able to really transfer most of the cultural sector to two-year or three-year funding. We have a clear plan to manage this process at national level, and I believe that then cities will be involved as in many other examples and follow what the Ministry of Culture and Media will do. And lastly, I would mention this question of the principal, the possibility of going back to work, I think a large number of MPs actually recognized our intention. It is intended that those who are the best in the institutions to allow them to be able, if they already accept these responsibilities and decide to take responsibility for the management of the institutions, which is what the former director of one institution in culture said well, neither is it a luxuriant position nor is it easy, on the contrary, to ensure that later they can continue their work because at least when the situation with institutions run by both the founder and the Ministry of Culture and the media is working on those who are the most qualitative and who need to be given some security of return. If we're going to limit the number of mandates, I think it's a good proposal, we'll see how it is in other areas. Here, we'll try really hard to study all your proposals and I hope this law in the second reading gets broad support. We will also use all the leverage communication with the profession as we do in all processes and discuss these key elements once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109357	We have several replicas, the first respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109358	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. Here's what I just came across was a replica that I referred to last February when we talked about the National Development Strategy, so I asked you why it actually worked out why the media strategy didn't actually be adopted, and then you said that the national development strategy would bring the basis, it would be the basis for a new media strategy. Now, the National Development Plan for Culture and Media for 2022-2027, as far as I know, the government has made a decision just to make it 27.1.2022, is this all a little late, and it's going into the law? Why has this strategy not already been adopted, and when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109359	Thank you for your comment. We are and today I think two or three times already said so a procedure has been initiated on the pages of the Ministry of Culture and Media, you have a report from the first working group meeting, including the minutes from that meeting, so the procedure has been initiated. There have been a lot of questions here today, which means the urgency and unforeseen situation of the cultural area in the last two years really worked in exceptional circumstances because of the covid, and because of the earthquake, and I think that within a reasonable time after the adoption of the National Development Strategy, we have launched the creation of this document and it will be completed, an analysis of the situation has been made both for culture and for the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109360	The next replica, respected Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109361	Your Honors Minister. In this proposal, the law introduces an exception to Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 8 with regard to the allocation of funds without a public call due to the urgency of the action caused by the event which the notifier could not foresee. Of course, it does not say anywhere in the law, which are events that would justify such urgency, but it is therefore prescribed that the total amount of such appropriations should not exceed 5% of the total amount intended to finance programmes and projects in that year. What worries me is that those 5% in 2020 amounted to around 4 million kuna, is quite a non-transparent solution in a law that can result in truly dubious proceedings. In addition, some projects co-financed by the EU or institutions outside the Republic of Croatia do not actually provide for a restriction or a restriction on such projects or does not apply. So there's an even bigger space of manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109362	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109363	Your Honor, Madam Representative. I'm sorry you weren't here when I answered that, so I'll do it again twice. For starters, we lived through Covid, it was a rush. We acted ad hoc, provided support. I don't know, so we're going to write Covid in law again? I think it's clear what hastiness, and secondly, I think that you as the head of the local self-government unit and all those who implement European projects, if they are investment projects, are aware of what happens with prices, with changes in costs, etc., so I think that explains this as well as European issues. As you know, national co-financing may also need to be made possible beyond the deadlines prescribed by these national public calls, but all this can be handled in a transparent manner. The Ministry of Culture has all this transparently arranged, we hope that local and regional self-government will continue to be run.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109364	Next replica, respected Barbara Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109365	... We thought differently about the composition of the council at the time, is that right, you were talking about the council's response to the units of local self-government, and we were talking about, I was actually asking you about what's going to happen to everyone, and that's how I'm going to be, members of the cultural council, so that's how it's going to be, regardless of how you name it, and if you're making a decision on the distribution of financial resources. [[Specially enabled.]] So we're talking about this council, about your council where they are at the Ministry and the fact is that autonomy means that this council should be partly composed of people who are not appointed by you. Is there any way you can make an argument? The possibility of the council's autonomy? [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109366	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109367	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, and I've answered this several times today in the debate, but maybe I should try another way. The Council shall be the advisory bodies of the Minister or the Head of the Local Self-Government. I don't think you'd like me to choose your advisors. So they, theirs, are chosen in a transparent procedure through a public call with criteria that we have now further strengthened in relation to what we have now and they are advisory bodies. It's a Croatian model. We inherited it, I mentioned it earlier until many of your colleagues here were, by the SDP government, specifically Minister Vujic, I think it was a good model. I think we now.../incomprehensible/... he is good for Croatia. And we're just promoting him. We're making it more transparent and more adapted to today's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109368	The next replica, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109369	Thank you, ma'am. Minister. I like that you commended Minister Vujic, so I will commend you. We are pleased when the laws of our resources defend the members of the government themselves, especially when it happens in this time and this long, and I invite you to remain at the next draft of the law, at the next item of the agenda, the more your government has not implemented the Constitutional Court's decision for five years, which your government has not given an opinion on the law we have proposed, that is, I think, the only law in this assembly and in the past which has not received the opinion of the Government and I would like you to participate, if you cannot, on behalf of the Government, you can, on your behalf, discuss the next law and give us your opinion and about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109370	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in the term of this and the past, I was personally at the debate on every law in the first and second reading, I think I was only prevented once because I respect this House of the High, and I'm glad you noticed it. I'd be glad if you'd found the time to follow up on this Law today, and I think it was also very important and it concerns a large number of people working in the field of culture and art. I'm sure you'd appreciate it if you'd contributed to this debate with your own experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109371	Next replica, respected Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109372	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, Your Honor. During your presentation today, you have not referred to that key thought about the whole, the whole of my presentation, which is the centralization of power, in this case personally within the Ministry, within the culture in Croatia, so I would pray, here, I am giving you the opportunity now among the last replicas to refer to this too, that this Law is actually in favour of you and your autonomous decision within Croatian culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109373	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109374	Thank you, Mr. Representative. If you were to make that point any, at least one argument, it would be a pleasure and an honor to join you in the controversy about it. This way I can only say that the intention of this Law is what I have pointed out, to make cultural financing clearer, more precise, more transparent, and to make all employees and those who are funded, who create culture and art work in safer conditions than those they may have today. In that sense, I believe that this Law is taking a number of steps and as far as national levels are concerned, but especially as far as local and regional levels are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109375	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109376	Art. 238, Your Honor, if you had listened to my presentation, you would have known, because I have listed 3 articles that are controversial within this Act and which gives you the autonomy to decide on state property by your own free will. I'm sorry you didn't listen, but here, it's on your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109377	You know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you get a warning. The last replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109378	Dear Minister, cultural and artistic amateurism has so far been pretty bad at this legally regulated regardless of whether or not it's theaters... and to the Tambur society and not to count any further. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After this pandemic, many associations depend on funding so-called funding. cold drive. If everything is based on programmes and projects, most associations in smaller areas will inevitably be shut down. We must not forget that it is a base in the preservation of traditional heritage and no one must let them go out. How's... To solve that problem? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109379	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I share your concerns and concerns of many, given that amateur activity was largely disabled during the pandemic much more than professional because we were still guided by the logic that professionals must try to make work possible, even under these difficult conditions because it is their source of existence. That is why we are now investing in amateurism, I am also calling from this place to act in the same way both local and regional, regional self-government. It is not only important for the preservation of traditional heritage, you have a large number of amateur associations that are engaged in contemporary expressions, but what is very important is the base that raises a new audience and therefore it is infinitely important that we invest in amateur activities software and provide them with space and working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109380	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate, closes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met, and now, at the request of the IT, we'll take a break of 10 minutes, and then we'll move on. It's 7:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.40 HOURS]] Next item: - Final proposal of the Law on Medical Procedure Interrupt Pregnancy, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 35. The applicant shall be the SDP Representatives' Club under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Gender Equality. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Honorable representative and vice president Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109383	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in recent days we have witnessed a case in which the health system humiliates a woman and allows her to suffer. We also testify that the government that is obliged to ensure the functioning of the legal order is shamelessly deafens against the decisions of the Constitutional Court and encourages violations of the law. And finally, in recent days, the state has annulled women's right to self-determination, which should also be in many orderly states and societies and is the civilization's reach of our time. And we could all rightly ask ourselves if the government is unable to provide health care to its citizens, if it shows negligence towards law enforcement and if it is completely insensitive to human rights which this government is serving us at all, but it does not only last the last days, but also the sparrows on the branch know that the existing law that allows the termination of pregnancy in practice is not implemented. And why is that? Because the government closes its eyes to the growing conservative movement in society, does not react in the right way, and the dead allows the health system to fail. The government is overrun by the fear of loss of votes, afraid to oppose not crawling but marching conservativeism, and that is deeply wrong. The HDZ government does not react to the so-called prayerians in front of hospitals, do not respond to the appeal of consciences that sometimes have whole hospitals, and in the afternoon some of these doctors perform abortions privately, do not react to the abuse and insult of women who decide to stop pregnancy, do not react to delays and obstruction of the law, react to a poor health system, react to nothing except in one case when it is forced to do so under public pressure. I ask again the question of what does such a government serve us? This view of the government created a social climate and such public health where women are sent to exercise their rights in another country and instead of having the right to reproductive health, to quality and accessible health care, to information and to self-determination, women in Croatia get humiliation and to be less valuable, secondary. The availability of reproductive rights is difficult at all levels of the health system in Croatia, there are not enough gynecologists, there are even 61 gynaecological teams missing. According to the estimates of 450,000 women in Croatia have no access to primary gynaecological care, what kind of state is this? Pregnancy interruption is not available, and is not available because women do not receive real and timely information whether, when and where they perform the procedure and not only do they not get the right information, sometimes they get the wrong false information, is not available either because on average it costs 2,500 kuna, and some women cannot pay it, prices differ and not only that, they keep growing, which raises the whole public health issue. It is also not available because 60% of doctors in Croatia are called to the appeal of conscience, because in 5 hospitals all doctors in the call of conscience, although the role of the public system is to ensure in all hospitals this type of service, given that individual doctors can have an appeal of conscience, but not all of them. This is a confirmation that HDZ has allowed this issue to be managed by conservative social movements by public health in a secular state. I repeat once again, and that is the last question, what is this government doing anyway? Well, you see, it doesn't matter to us, we don't want to see our fellow citizens go to another country for the medical services our own has denied them. We do not want to see the laws not implemented and to be brought to the Constitutional Court for the last 5 years. he only shakes his hand because of petty party interests. We do not want to see on the side that the government, in fear of losing a handful of votes in the elections, dares not to pollinate with conservative forces in Croatia which do not view this issue as a health issue, nor as a legal, nor as a human legal issue. We do not want to take part in the fact that law enforcement endangers women’s health, violates the reputation of the health system and all those doctors who respect and enforce the law and conduct their duty to treat and help patients. We do not want to support the practice in which the government is doing its job simply because it is faced with public pressure. It is our obligation to fight for the rights of our citizens, for the health system that we all pay and that must guarantee health care and care. It is our obligation to fight for the right of a woman to self-determination, for her right to plan a family, to choose whether or not to start a family and give birth to children, but also the right of a woman to decide whether or not to stop her pregnancy. It is our obligation to constantly force the government to do its job, to finally act in accordance with the constitutional court, to offend the law, to allow women access to information, education, contraception and termination of pregnancy on demand without delay, without question, without distraction and without misinformation, respecting its privacy and dignity. It is our duty and to propose laws if it is not already in a state or not willing to do so by the government. And that is why we propose the Law on the Medical Procedure of Interrupting Pregnancy that protects and improves women's reproductive health. Our proposal has several basic requirements. The first requires the law to introduce compulsory education in sexually responsible behaviour, reproductive health and family planning at school. We believe that this is the first and key mechanism to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, but also unwanted pregnancies and abortions. With education as another key mechanism for responsible family planning and protection of reproductive health, we see prevention of unwanted pregnancy through sterilisation or contraception. And in order to ensure the availability of contraception, we suggest that the costs be taken over by HZZO. And finally, if women for some reason we do not have the right to enter into a decision to terminate pregnancy, the state is obliged to provide, without delay, questioning and difficulty, available, safe and quality abortion as well as to provide them with all necessary accurate and scientific information before, during and after the procedure. We ask that the medical procedure for pregnancy interruption be made available in all hospitals that have gynecology and maternity departments and we oblige all institutions of this kind to provide sufficient number of doctors who perform this procedure, not to call all the hospitals to their conscience. We ask that in all specialised public health institutions women be available and offered for the choice of non-invasive medical termination of pregnancy up to 9 weeks of gestation age. We ask that the cost of termination at the request of a woman in specialised public health institutions be borne by the state, not by women. Dear colleagues and colleagues, every woman in Croatia has the right to protect and improve her reproductive rights, and the state is obliged to provide her with full health care. It is obliged to provide care as a secular state guided by medical science, not conservative public health attitudes. It is necessary to protect the reproductive health of women, their fundamental human rights and constitutional rights, the right to privacy and the right to dignity because if it is not able to do so, then we will rightly ask ourselves what the state is for. We opposition, a progressive opposition do not allow the government on this issue to show its carelessness about health care, its vigilance when it comes to the law of this country and its fear of conflict in conservative social groups. We will use every opportunity to force the government to modernize and implement this law fully as is the case for the rule of law and advanced society, while those who independently decide to interpret it and refuse to act on it and respond to it. The task, the social mission of the SDP and other progressive political parties that support us in this is to say a lot of concern and negligence of the government, to support all the demands and initiatives of NGOs and women's associations that continuously point to problems that women in Croatia have when it comes to their reproductive rights, to join their fight and to be here in political space among others, their voice for women's rights, the voice for human rights, the voice for modern, civilised, advanced and free Croatia. It is time that after years of annulment and humiliation of women, Croatia is clearly determined for respect and respect for women.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109384	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, that women in the Republic of Croatia should be entitled to a choice when it comes to pregnancy, childbirth and pregnancy interruption, is considered 81% of citizens according to the latest Ipsos survey conducted 2 years ago. It is a confirmation of the civilization's reach, it is a confirmation that the issue of pregnancy, birth and pregnancy is a matter of freedom and the rights of women to decide for themselves about their body and their future. That is why we remind, today is the task of our parliamentary representatives and advocates not to allow further erosion of women's rights in society and to pass a modern law that will improve opportunities for women's reproductive health and ensure women's safe, accessible, informed and free medical procedures to stop pregnancy as well as available and free contraception. The Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free birth decision, which is now in force in the Republic of Croatia, dates back to 1978. It was also made clear by the Constitutional Court, which in March 2017 obliges the legislator to adopt and update that law within 2 years. That deadline was simply neglected and expired no less than three years ago. That the deadline is up and the new law reminds the President of the Constitutional Court these days. Not only has the deadline expired, but there is still no draft draft new law by the resolution ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia. Only occasionally from the media can we hear the guidelines of its adoption or how the last of the prime minister himself had to hear that the bill would not even be. And I remind you that this 44-year-old law is not even enforceable in a series of its implementing acts. And that's what the progressive opposition, the opposition that sits on the left side of this assembly, is worrying us about, and that's why we reacted to the bill and we didn't react now. We reacted right after the Constitutional Court deadline. So it's not a late opposition, it's a late government of the Republic of Croatia. Since 1978, medical science has progressed and it is clear that this law should be modernised according to new knowledge, but the fact that this law is still an avant-garde law in many elements for many countries in our environment. The law respected international standards of human rights, but was advanced in 1978 and later adopted rights related to the reproduction that exist in the convention on the abolition of all forms of discrimination against CEDAW women adopted at the UN General Assembly in 1979. Today we know that we need to better cover measures to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, unwanted pregnancy of course, which is why this law that we present today brings education and contraception because, in the meantime, it has been shown that the most effective ways to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortions are administratively well reproductive and sexual education, access to more effective methods and models of family planning, available and free contraception, all of this is covered by this law, and there is plenty of room left for additional interventions to take place in the education system, which would be our additional appeal. Today, we insist that after a solution to the constitutional court and the continued ignoring of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS, which has been called upon to decide on a new law to adopt its own right. Although the termination of pregnancy in Croatia is legally permitted, it is really almost unreachable, and unfortunately there is an intensity of a certain part of political actors that may be in due course and banned. And I repeat here a woman is full and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia an equal member of society and her decision should be respected and not questioned. We must not allow the institution to appeal to the conscience to be a stronger argument than the right of the woman, we must not allow others to decide on the body of the woman and her rights, HS must remain the last dam to preserve the right of the woman to terminate pregnancy achieved 44 years ago. The basis for this law was a series of research, there was a number of scientific evidence and was among other research by the Advocate General for Gender Equality of 2018. The results show that at that time, and unfortunately today in the Republic of Croatia, five hospitals collectively calling for a conscience, are now Virovitica, Vinkovci, Našice, Požega and St. Ghost. Even more devastating is the fact that in the public hospitals of Zagreb and Split, two of the largest cities totals 80% of employees are calling for conscience. Is it not to ask how it is possible that in the Republic of Slovenia 60% of gynecologists have a conscience appeal while on an identical law in Slovenia there is only 1.5% gynecologist. While the number of healthcare professionals providing a medical stop-pregnancy service is reduced at the same time, the high price of interruptions on demand is also increasing. Today it varies from 2,000 kuna to almost 4,000 kuna and more thousands of kuna in private hospitals. Just writing a proposal for this law, we have been guided by the practice of other EU member states, and we propose that, as in most EU countries and Croatia, the costs of medical termination on request be covered by health insurance. Unfortunately, we already have the opportunity to hear that despite the accumulation of enormous health losses stemming from system instability and responsibility, the Minister for Reproductive Rights of Women still has no money. Minister Beroš reports to all women of childbearing age in the Republic of Croatia that he will not achieve free contraception or stop pregnancy on request for a woman will be free of charge. Finally, the question arises, will the right of women after this law that has been implemented for 44 years be possible in the Republic of Croatia at all, or will we continue to force our women into foreign countries to proceed? The fact that a woman pays for abortion is obviously a sign of gender discrimination and it is worth correcting, as already mentioned by the CEDOW recommendation since 2015. Therefore, contraceptives must also be free of charge or must be on the HZZO list. When we talk about medical termination of pregnancy, it is an abortion that is carried out with the help of pills he should be cheaper, his introduction and now he has legal basis in the Republic of Croatia, but again as he said and a colleague is not available, because on paper you can perform it in nine gynaecological hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, but in reality you can do it or be offered to do it either at your choice only in Rijeka and Pula. Experiences in countries where a medical abortion is available show that women are mainly opting for it because it is less invasive, and it is preferred by a number of gynecologists. And yes, it is possible to perform it until the ninth week of the gesture of the fruit itself. In addition, this law extends the circle of institutions that should and may be safe, we stress the safe and accessible abortion in the Republic of Croatia, and this is all in line with the World Health Organization's guidelines on safe abortion where the rules relating to institutions are respected and where it says directly that service providers should be based on evidence to ensure protection against excessively arbitrary and otherwise unreasonable requirements, because restrictions may negatively affect access to services due to increased costs, reduced availability and geographical inaccessibility of services. According to the World Health Organization, 23,000 women die from an insecure abortion each year, almost every death caused by an insecure abortion can be prevented, that is what we are asking for and expect from the Republic of Croatia as EU Member States to provide for their women in the Republic of Croatia, not in other countries. The justification for the adoption of this modern law has been confirmed, unfortunately, through the crisis of the covid-19 pandemic which we have witnessed in the last two years where women, mothers, girls are more difficult to access to gynological services and where the primary services of sexual and reproductive health. It actually shows that during that period the abortion at the request was even more difficult to reach and that it was actually even less possible to perform it. Our proposal for a Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy was created with a clear desire and a clear aim to improve reproductive health due to education, and to ensure that every woman in Croatia has adequate, free and safe contraception, but also access to free, safe and legal termination of pregnancy on request. We want this law to confirm the unequivocal right of women to self-determined ones, and it is precisely a decision on whether and when we have children that we fully belong to the area of self-determination, it is a personal decision and a state, especially secular one, that is not to be confused and not to be involved in such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109385	We have requests for a break, first respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I'm asking for a 10-minute break in order to make this law clear and that is why we won't support it. First of all, the name of the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy clearly reflects the proposal that the basic and main orientation of the law is an interruption of pregnancy. This is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision that the law must be laid down in such a way as to exclude pregnancy as an exception, not a rule. Although the termination of pregnancy according to the Constitutional Court's decision falls or enters the sphere of women's privacy in no way, and what this law gives rise to, there can be no measure of family planning, nor a means of contraception. Second, the other thing that should also be mentioned is that the law does not mean and there is no such thing as the law. A period of reflection in which pregnant women would be able to learn all about the possibility of termination of pregnancy and life afterwards in the face of a health system, with the state. What's inadmissible in this law is that this law is scandalously undernourished, it's scandalous, because as long as our colleagues and colleagues from the opposition are two years old. In this assembly, a measure under the Covida-19 pandemic is adopted by a two-thirds majority, and even by a two-thirds majority it determines the distance of the Postes of Covida on Postes, and here, without any framework, it gives power to the minister that it sets its own rules on educational preventive measures, which in any case speaks of the reflection of the opposition in HS, which would leave the most important measure to the minister, while, on the other hand, for a number of measures which required a two-thirds majority of importance. In the end, this law as agreed is in a legal and health sense and in a professional sense under the law that was before 44. I've brought the Socialist Republic Assembly and we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109387	Time. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Michel Jakisic. So the break will be approved, just to see the injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109388	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, while insulting opposition representatives and getting into the head and thinking, no matter what a colleague of Bačić has stated, the insult and Minister Berosa is saying that he is unable to write the rules, and the covid is mentioned, Mr Bačić explained in the covid that we are all to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then we are interested in which Bačić is real, whether he or he who now interprets the decision of the Constitutional Court or not. The 2017 recommendation should not be complied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109389	This was your replica, not the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109390	You've hurt an honorary colleague. 238, you demean all MPs, but you are knowingly deluding them. You are well aware that it is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017. Your government's constitutional court has ordered you to refer yourself to the legislative procedure of the bill that you have not done, knowingly disobeyed the legislation in this country, and what citizens think of you today at the main protest in Ban Jelačić Square and across the country in other cities in protests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109391	And you used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109392	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, I refer to the article. 238 of this Rules of Procedure. When he asked for a break on behalf of the club, Bačić set the matter in a way that it was written in the bill that the termination of pregnancy is an obligation, that every woman at her fertilized age must two to three times interrupt pregnancy, so what Mr. Bacic is talking about, perhaps that HDZ wrote, when he wrote the laws, then something must be made. This law gives only the possibility of selecting the wives of counterpart Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109393	And to you, and this was a replica, you get a warning. Next infraction of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, all three MPs who referred to mine, my request for a break has been completely missed. In fact, what has been done, this bill absolutely does not comply with the obligations arising from the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, let them not appeal at all to the Constitutional Court for failing to comply with the constitutional court's basic request in this law, and that the law must provide for educational preventive measures, there is not a word here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109395	Time, time, and you used this, you used this as a replica and you get a warning. Following is the explanation of the break of the distinguished representative of Peja Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Constitutional Court of Mr. Bačić is not a Swedish table, you cannot reach a constitutional court and choose which decision of the Constitutional Court you like or do not like, so you will decide to implement it. It would probably be easier for many of us if it were because I am sure that in this home, but elsewhere in Croatia there are those who disagree with the numerous decisions of this court, but it does not go. When the Constitutional Court makes a decision, we must respect it and that is exactly what you of all people here have advocated until a few months ago and assuming what decision the Constitutional Court will make about a proposal for a referendum from the Mosta colleagues I am sure that the next week when it suits you, you will do the same to your colleague Bačić because you are such, you are two-faced, you are two-faced, and when something does not suit you, you will use everything you can to distort the facts. However, here you cannot do this, this law respects the constitutional court's decision, but more than anything else, and that is most important, this law respects the fundamental human right of women to choose and we will defend it. But beware now, if you consider it necessary to pass a different law of three fellow MPs has proposed one conclusion to determine that this law was only the first reading, and to task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to accept for a second reading a comprehensive bill that will address some of the things you have been talking about, we are prepared to do so, and I will ask my colleague, Glasovac, to make it clear on behalf of the motionor, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109397	Stanka's been approved to you, too. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238nd fellow coat of arms insults and disdains the representative. A fellow coat of arms not that you are two-faced, you have a hundred faces, you are able to say each other today, tomorrow, and the day after that, that you didn't say either. What has not been done here by you has not been acted in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision Therefore, you do not execute the Constitutional Court's decisions [[Santer Invader: Time.]] You are completely contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109399	This wasn't a breach of your rules of procedure. You have a warning, a second warning. The other one. The presentation of the break of the distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109400	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, not with us, we've been harassing cases in Poland when pregnant women died because of the call for conscience, and now the same thing has started happening in Croatia. A new law on abortion has been late for several years, and it can be said that we live in fear of how and how it will violate women’s rights. The situation we are witnessing has shown us that Croatian society is deeply misogynous because women are being convicted by all gynecologists, politicians and other citizens. If the new law doesn't change anything for women, this could be an incentive for women to move to a country where women's rights are more respected. According to World Health Organization data, 23,000 women die each year from an insecure abortion, any death caused by an insecure abortion can be prevented, this bill is exactly going in that direction. So far, the law with many obstacles, legal restrictions, the appeal of a doctor who has already become obviously contagious because each fifth calls for a conscience to force women to seek or insecure termination of pregnancy or to go beyond the limit. It is therefore necessary to ensure that every woman has access to safe, quality, legal termination on request. Stopping pregnancy is never an easy choice, but it must remain a choice and we will not give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109401	The next request for a break is a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109402	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes in order to further consult and highlight the importance of this bill proposal not only because it is important for the constitutional court to respond, but because of those women who today do not have a virtually accessible abortion service, because when we are talking about laws being broken today and that a woman can hardly get an abortion in Croatia, we are actually talking about those women of poor property status who will not have that amount of $2.5,3,000, and when more travel expenses are added to the city that this abortion is taking place, where this abortion is taking place we are actually reaching the minimum wage amount. Women in Croatia can't afford it, they don't have the means to do it. And when we talk about breaking the law because the laws are clear then we have to add that dimension that abortion is public health issues and that we actually say to this public health issue the good part of women in Croatia that they have no right to it. And that's why the proposal came from our side, and that's why we're only taking over a proposal from the associations that initiated that, apart from changing the law, it's going to change the constitution. Why? Because it's in the 1974 Constitution. was this dimension of the right to abortion she was expelled in 1990 at the request of Kaptol. And that's why if it were in the constitution, things would get much harder to interpret, so our women are going to Slovenia. Why? Because that's where the constitution stayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109403	You've been granted a break, too. All approved breaks will be continued with the work according to the Rules of Procedure. The first replica of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109404	My dear progressives listen to you and I don't believe you. I don't know if you're normal here short and clear? I don't know if you're normal, here I would suggest the next law might be better so that you fully expose yourself, let's bring me the law that children can be killed by the 40th week of pregnancy, and even when a woman is born let's leave one half year for parents to decide whether to kill a child or not. These are the laws you advocated by Adolf Hitler alone, these were racial laws when given to the system and society the possibility of taking another life and now you're doing it. There's good and evil, there's advanced and backwards, you're on the side of evil, on the side of the back, and you have to admit it. I've got to look back here on the 7th. They're silent about this, it's the Bridges, there's Snow White who's... for killing and 7 dwarfs learn and others who shut up 7 years old. bayed, and now they will try to deceive the Croatian public and appear to be proliferators, which they are not. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're all ashamed of yourself, and now you're gonna do some damage to the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna go home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109405	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, First Honored Representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109406	Thank you all.../The speaker has been turned off....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109407	Please turn on the microphone, Mr. coat of arms, your microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 238, and 240. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS not only of colleagues Zekanovic but also of your part. So, we've had opportunities now to hear a salva insult not only at the expense of a colleague of the Voice but also a number of other MPs. It is your duty when such words come out of the box of what is the most tolerated of the chairmans allow you to interrupt and prevent what your colleague Zekanovic has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109409	Time. We haven't had a chance. You can see she's gone. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109410	Dear Vice President, I'm giving up on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you nicely to really investigate if my colleague Zekanovic was under the influence of What was in his bag the other day, right here at the Parliament's pay phone. [[/Intruder: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109411	The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109412	Your Honor, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because there's no point in me getting a heads-up over a poor coin that's... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109413	Okay. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is respected by Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109414	And yet I will appeal to the Rules of Procedure, but I will especially highlight what Peja Grbin, Art. 240th, and we have to start using it in HS because the hate calls we've heard here, which is the hatred of women who have the right to abortion, it's not genocide, it's not Adolf Hitler, it's usually the chairman's punishment by taking away words just to remind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109415	Okay, you're getting a warning now because you've been doing your homework here, and we hear every day here in HS hate that you unfortunately spread towards each other, according to the parties, each other. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109416	Let me just say that I'm going to object...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109417	I didn't give you my word, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109418	I have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109419	You're getting a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109420	No, no, no. [[Blower from the bench: And you must give it to her]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109421	And she hasn't answered, please take a seat, please take a seat, not announced, please take a seat. Dear Representative Sandra Bencic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109422	I am withdrawing the objection and I urge you to give Katarina Peovic to object because she... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109423	So who are you, a lawyer? Next injure of the Rules of Procedure, I don't see any colleagues who he was, Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109424	Mr. Vice President, it's about Art. 236.St. 1 therefore, in order to address the Committee on the Constitution of fellow Members, Peović must announce this at the session, so this is the established practice of the Constitution Committee, which HS has repeatedly confirmed by its decisions, so it has the power of the Rules of Procedure. So, my colleague Peović, in order to address the Committee on the Constitution, must have the opportunity to tell her, and therefore I ask you to give her your word and withdraw the second warning you gave her because of what you did. 1 236th century. The rules of procedure can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109425	I respect your gracious request, but the esteemed colleague Peović should raise her hand and ask for a word, and she can't jump in and take the right word for herself, it's clear to you and you know it very well. The next replica or reply to the replica, please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109426	We need to determine how the Rules of Procedure should be sought in the event of an appeal to an article. 236. What I was about to say is that you must announce means that you would like to contact the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure you must publicly say that you will address the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure What I'm doing here. [[/Intruder: All right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109427	You got it. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109428	I refuse to replicate an empty chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109429	Next replica, respected representative Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109430	Thank you, Your Honor. Tonight we are witnessing a united left, so-called. Progressors who exploit and paralyze the difficult situation of Mirala Cavide, SDP and We can! as the main parasites of this entire, entire today's circus to get cheap political points exclusively on the difficult situation of Mirala Chawide. The appeal to your conscience is incomprehensible, incomprehensible because it is a moral act that carries in its core the integrity of a doctor who does not want to kill unborn children. The opinion of the medical professional you are calling for was adopted in 2017. when the Constitutional Court has delivered an opinion of the 4 Croatian Medical Faculty which, in order not to say wrong, is an indisputable scientific fact that during pregnancy it is about human life and that is the basis, life is the basis from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109431	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109432	Dear colleague Milanović litre, I must remind you that this proposal of the law has been in the procedure since March 2019, so it is not an appropriate law, that we as SDP are constantly engaged and advocated to preserve and improve women's reproductive rights. Let me remind you that our government is in 2013. We also tried to introduce health education in Croatian schools, and this is a normal natural sequence. Second of all, the Cavida case, why are we talking about the Cavida case today? Because a woman was forced to give her privacy, they found her to give the media loudly and courageously about how the system oversaw her and violated the laws to get to her rights. That's why you're talking to this side here, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109433	The next replica, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109434	Dear fellow Members, this law is absolutely in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but this law rests on something else far more important, which is to protect women's rights to choice, to protect women's rights to be the one to decide about their own body, and not to ask for any permission from guardians, husbands, extramarital partners, fathers or either to live in the 19th or 18th century. And that may be the most important quality of this law. But please strictly formally, my colleague Bacic has objected to certain indeterminations of this law. We have a proposal of one conclusion of three MPs that would allow it to be considered that the first reading was carried out on this law and to give the government an opportunity to fulfil its obligation to the Constitutional Court, so I am asking you now to make your statement on behalf of the Proposer and formally on that conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109435	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin, as a proposaler, for the positive conclusion that this debate today is in some way considered and considered to be a first reading and that all those constructive proposals that I hope will be in this debate that can contribute to our improvement and improvement of the quality of the law we accept and that, possibly until the second reading, we are going to do so, that if this conclusion is rejected in this form, the government will fulfil that obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109436	The next replica, respected Mirela Ahmentovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109437	Dear colleagues of Glasses, today we have had the opportunity to hear from the HDZ Committee on Gender Equality that this is a complex problem, that this topic will cause division in society, and over 80% of Croatian citizens are just supporting this empowerment of women's fundamental rights. Do you think it's complex for HDZ to provide a sufficient number of doctors performing this kind of surgery? Let's just say in Rijeka, it's not complex. Do you think it's complex to ensure that this procedure is free? Let's just say women make a contribution to health care, so why don't we just secure it from here. Is it complex to introduce a commitment to education on sexually responsible behavior and reproductive and sexual health? Or is it complex just to support a woman's basic human right because she's just a woman?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109438	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109439	Thank you, colleague Ahmetovic, I must point out that reproductive health and reproductive rights of women are much more than the right to choice and the right to autonomy. So reproductive, and that's what this law is about. It is the right to information, the right to education, the right to access protection against unwanted pregnancy this right and available, a safe termination of pregnancy, the right to treatment infertility through medically assisted fertilisation, the right to protect women in menopause, the right to health education in schools, the right to a decent birth, etc., all this has taken into account this law. This law exactly builds up means education, prevention and the last thing that we all want to avoid is the termination of pregnancy, but if it comes to it, we must not let women go to insecure births, to question their health and their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109440	Next replica, respected representative Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109441	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First let me say right now for me is, life begins with conception and lasts to death. So don't be, I'm always for the culture of life, not for the culture of death. My colleagues Sabina, Mrs. Ruzici Markobasic, pushed 20.11.91. years of pipe gun in the vagina and they went off. What did they kill in it? She was seven months pregnant. A bunch of cells, proteins or a child? Tell me what's the difference between the state that does it legally and that Chetnik who committed a terrible crime, in the end he killed Mrs. Ruzica Markobasic too. What's the difference between a state and a Chetnik? For me it's not the same they are if they do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109442	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109443	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I haven't received a single warning yet, so take care of it. [[/Intruder: We're counting.]] Dear Mr. Vice President, Articles 238 and 240 have been re-injured, a colleague has compared Croatia, an independent and sovereign state with a Chetnik. This is already enough to violate Article 240. Rules of Procedure. But talking about war crimes and withdrawing a parallel with a law the Constitutional Court has confirmed by constitutional law is below each level. And I ask you to respond to such provocations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109444	You are now being warned, because the gentleman did not compare the state of Croatia to the Chetniks, he is a Croatian defender and it is not correct that you speak of him. He's not giving up, he's not giving up on the injury? Don't give up, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109445	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 238, 238, to respond to my colleague's coat of arms. I'll never compare the state of Croatia to the Chetniks, which I wouldn't exactly say for you, but, Comparing the law that was spelled and that's what your party wrote in '78. For years I will be happy to compare it and say that for me it is equal to the brush that law does not state Croatia. [[Don't do it now either.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109446	You're getting a warning, Mr. Mlinarich, don't sharpen the tension, I don't think it makes any sense. Mr. coat of arms, you're giving up your injury? Okay, okay. Let's get a reply to the replica. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109447	Dear colleague, you have the right to your beliefs and your views, and so do I. And you don't know, and you don't have to know at all what my position is and what I'm talking about being pregnant and some other stuff. I find these things deeply private. However, what the state must do and take care of is to protect women's health in all situations. By banning abortion, we won't answer a woman to do it, it's just a question of where she's going to do it and when she's going to do it. Those richer as Irish women when banned will go to Britain or another country, unfortunately those poorer will be exposed to the black sector and insecure abortions. So I actually know this is a difficult topic, but this is our reality and we need to know how to deal with this reality, and the state needs to know how to protect women in the most difficult situations possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109448	The next replica honours Barbara Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109449	I'm a mother of two adult daughters, they already have their children, I had the right to choose. My daughters at school didn't have any civic education or health care, the question is whether my children's children will have it. In this country where galloping conservativism scares me by depriving the rights that I already had as a grandmother, it gives us the duty, too, to make it possible for the new law now for me to give my grandchildren at least the same rights that we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109450	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109451	Thank you, colleague Antoliæ Vupra. This was more of a commentary than a replica. So I also hope that all of us who are here will leave Croatia better for those who come behind in every way. We may not agree on some solutions, but what we should always have ahead of us somehow is that it's our key call. Different practices are different models we see and countries where they had very restrictive laws, which still decided to go some other way precisely because they saw that bans don't actually solve which we all get together, we have to face that there is, now it's just a question of the path that we're going to choose to go to a solution with as few victims as possible, human victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109452	Time. Next replica, the esteemed Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109453	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Voice. In your presentation, you mentioned progress in medicine, that everything should be in line with contemporary knowledge, etc., but compared to the law in force in '78. the term, therefore, until you suggest that the abortion may be requested for 10 or 12 weeks of life, respectively. Medicine today modern science is no doubt not controversial, it knows that the child's heart beats at 6 weeks, we know that life begins with conception, but we have heard some thesis on this left side of the assembly that it becomes a human being, after birth, not before. So I'm wondering why limit to 10, 12 weeks, why not make this right to childbirth and what are the professional criteria that led you to this? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109454	When life begins around this unique attitude, neither the scientific community nor the medically narrow scientific community can agree, not even Catholic theologians, so that I would not enter into that part of the story. You can't talk about knowing it, no, it's not a scientific fact and it's not the unique attitude that should be manifested about it. But this law carries within it the achievement of or compliance with modern medicine, so that you have the possibility of an indicative or medical interruption of a pregnancy that in the law of '78. There's no less invasive, it's easier to access. You also have the respect for a conscience that wasn't in the law of '78, but provided it doesn't violate organizationally. in the public health system, access to women health care. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109455	Next replica, the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109456	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Voter. You said in your initial statement that the health system humiliates a woman, and unfortunately I can't agree with you in that part, especially because you're taking the case of a lady, an unhappy Mrs. Chavayda who doesn't have anything to do with this, who serves you as a conflict trigger, for division, you abuse it for the purpose of some of the dialogue wars that I see here are trying to conduct. In today's legal medical sense, it's not about abortion, nor is it about abortion in your bill, and you didn't foresee anything for Mrs. Chavaida in your proposal. The abortion is carried out in a human embryo as a rule until the 10th week of gestational age, right? So this is about the 27th week of pregnancy when a child's birth is already possible after 22 weeks and so this must only be about killing that fetus, so the fetus... It's not the same. And I'd like one more thing just, don't talk about the service of abortion, it's not a store. What kind of abortion service? The abortion is a medical procedure that has its psychic and physical consequences [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109457	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109458	When we talk about the humiliation of women, then I mean that it humiliates them that when they are denied access to what they pay for health insurance, and they have no benefits about it and they are denied that service. You're from Slavonia, right? In Slavonia, four hospitals are all in the appeal of conscience, all of it. How many tens of thousands of women of childbearing age who do not have access to what this law guarantees them? What is it about humiliating women and breaking the law? And secondly, when we talk about the Chavaid case, you're making some proposal on how to regulate this law even though I'm saying that according to this latest opinion of the second-degree commission there are actually no doubts here, and it has finally confirmed this after this painful process and the second-degree commission. The law here is perfectly clear, the law has not been denied her right now. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109459	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109460	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Voice. The appeal of conscience is almost an exception in neighbouring countries, so more than three percent of Slovenia is mentioned. Tell us once again, there is no reluctance to mention what kind of relationship there is when it comes to the appeal of conscience in our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109461	An appeal to conscience was introduced into Croatian legislation in 2003. First in the Law of Medicine, then in other related laws and those ethical codes relating to the health sector. However, he was introduced in the best faith. But what we see today 19 years later is that what should never happen is that we have an unbalanced system of doctors' rights to the appeal of conscience, but also the right of patients to health care. I think we're going to have to sort this out a little bit differently because we don't have records of how many doctors are in the call of conscience today, we don't have the protocols for how it comes to it, and I think it's a key problem, and only on some other protocols we can, we have to be able to. Ensure every woman's access regardless of the appeal of conscience. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109462	Next replica honoured representative Sanja Radulovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109463	Dear colleagues. So, we talked today about right now about the call of conscience we have in Croatia a problem related to the geographical inaccessibility of medical termination of pregnancy. Fortunately from the end of where I come from Istria County At the General Hospital of Pula there is no appeal to conscience as well as to KBC Rijeka, however, you yourself have told me here by this bill of law and we are not trying to abolish the medical appeal of conscience, however, we believe that it is an international legal property, that it is entered into the constitution, rather than simply want to allow any woman in a public health institution legal, secure and accessible medical termination of pregnancy. However, apart from the geographical inaccessibility itself, we talked about here today and the other economic one, so please comment on the fact that it is possible, for example, that medicines, antibiotics and other services cost the same in all health institutions and that the price of medical termination varies from institution to institution in our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109464	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109465	Yeah, that's a very interesting question. Prices of those services of the hospital form autonomously, however, one supervision or research was carried out by the Ministry of Health where it was intended to go afterwards with the aim of equating the prices of these services. However, our law provides for the availability of this service precisely in a way that we believe that it must be settled by the state, not by the woman, because this very price is very often an obstacle for women who are poorer to consume their law given the right and we should not do so in any way to access health care to this medical service or any socio-economic status of a woman has a crucial or crucial role.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109466	Next replica, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109467	Dear colleagues of the Voice. How we got in the 21st century in 2022. when a large part of the developed world deals with the problem that women are finally getting the same pay for their work as men, which they do not have, that we finally have positive discrimination on the management and management functions of male women we do not have today, we in Croatia are being brought into a situation to talk about fundamental human rights about the elections and in a way that we are brought before the paradox that we are not willing to respect not only what developed countries and the developed world are doing but we are not prepared to respect neither what the public is looking for, nor what women are looking for, nor what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is looking for. Why are we even in such a situation on this day in 2022? We were thrown 300 years ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109468	That's actually a question for HDZ. Why the HDZ has refused to implement the constitutional court's decision for five years, why it refuses. Why? 2017 the decision or decision of the Constitutional Court has been reached. This is because he refuses to object to a good part of his electoral body, and he is actually sacrificing all those women who do not have a legal guarantee, who are not legally guaranteed rights because of some handful of votes in the elections. Well, that cowardice is enough and it's very clear to the citizens and all women need to be told very clearly. It is cowardice, it is calculating and it is even trading with the interests of many women in Croatia for its narrow party interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109469	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109470	A respected colleague has been injured by an officer. The 238th Rules of Procedure, for it offends us by bringing lies. Thus, the Constitutional Court did not say that the applicable law is unconstitutional compared to the scale, to the solution that we have today and which is applied rather than that it does not comply with the applicable arrangement or that it has some other old expressions in relation to the old social arrangement. Therefore, You couldn't when you were in power [[Santer Invader: Time.]] bring the law you wanted. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109471	You're getting a warning. This was your replica. Next is the replica of the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109472	Dear colleagues, I would say that, perhaps I will not agree here with my colleague that we were thrown 300 years ago because it seems to me that our society is much more liberal than the right-hand power of HDZ and some others, other right-wing currents would have wanted, as shown by the relevant research of Ipsos research and two years ago, even 81% of the citizens of this country say they are for a woman, so for a woman to have a choice. Only 7% of them would take that right away from a woman. So we live in a much more liberal society than here I would say the right side of the assembly here, here I want. And that's good news. Another thing I wanted to point out, it was often heard here that abortion was contraception. No, it's not birth control, it can't be birth control, and how to actually prevent unwanted pregnancy, the only thing we can do is make education. and introduce sexually [[Intruder: Time.]] Education to school. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109473	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109474	You said we live in a liberal society that guarantees us the law, you can tell by law. Yes, but we also have a parallel system, a parallel system that, past the law, we've seen in the last few days, take the right to interpret the law and write the law and assume the role of the legislator. We have one parallel system that prevents institutional, not individual, institutional availability of health care throughout hospitals, even in regions. 40,000, 20,000 women in Slavonia fertile age have no right to a health system, to health care in nature, and in law they have the right to do so. So we have one Croatia and one law and a parallel system that manages Public health system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109475	Next replica, respected representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109476	Comrade Voter, I think it is very important to stress that human life begins with conception because that story begins and ends and it belongs to neither mother nor father, belongs to an independent being that only develops. And that creature has the right to live. And he loves and values himself in all his nuances, in all his periods of life and age. And that is why I state this, that is why the Council of Europe has given European Resolution 2010 the right to all people in the EU on the call of conscience that they should not have to do what is not in accordance with their moral laws. And what I'm curious about is how do you who are referring to European standards try to abolish this right and call it humiliation? You have no right to do that. It actually shows that you're not progressive. There may be freedom in your mouth, but it's what you say. on the heart [[Intruder: Time.]] The marching one-brains. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109477	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109478	If we're going to talk about legal meaning, then human rights and their legal protection belong to a man when he was born. And we our age count the date of birth from the moment we were born, not from the moment of conception, not from the first day of our last period, when we speak of the right to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109479	Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109480	Thank you very much, my attitude is well known. To me, life is from conception to death. And that's not your question... That we are discussing, you have no dialogue, but you are aggressive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are you talking about life and the appeal of conscience as something bad? Life from conception to death. What's wrong with promoting life? What's wrong with the SDP saying that it's going to have 40% of women, you're going to pass the law and you're calling for women's rights, and basically at least a list, the most of which is not filled in by the 2016 elections, I remember exactly you from the SDP. Which is why, because Peja Grbin wouldn't be on the list. I have all four front desks, which is what you women are talking about. We're talking about life. And how would you feel about having a spontaneous birth in seven months, a child being sick, what would you do as progressive? Collected Money for that disabled person, [[Intruder: Time.]] for that child. [[Intruder: Time.]] Life is from conception to death [[Intruder: Time.]] Don't be aggressive. [[Intruder: Time.]] Be progressive, and you are [[Intruder: Time.]] aggressive. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109481	Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109482	I don't even know where you saw me being aggressive to you. You're actually in favor of a ban on abortion. You're in favor of a ban on abortion. That's, you need to make it clear, and not the stories we stand for, you have to say, you're advocating for the right to abortion. And you see people like you standing up for it in Ireland and even having such a law. Do you know when? Until a 31-year-old dentist died. You know why? Because they weren't allowed to launch an abortion while the baby's heart was beating. After that, the law changed. Is that what you want in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109483	Is there a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109484	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured, the colleague demeans the parliamentary representative. Do not throw aggressively into my mouth, you who are not progressive but protect your exclusively particular interests at this time in a difficult situation. And you're talking about healthcare, what you did for health care, look at the Dalmatian Zagora, you haven't heard from the only voices you're looking for, women can't be examined from breast tumors waiting for six months to be typed [[Intruder: Time.]] These are the problems of women having women [[Intruder: Time.]] which do not have water supply in their area [[Intruder: Time]] And yet, ma'am, you don't care about the team that from these benches, you're afraid of the fate of our women. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109485	You get a third warning and you lose the right word until the end of the debate. The next replica, the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109486	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Voter, we cannot and should not agree on all things, so we do not have to agree on all things. For me, life begins with conception and lasts until natural or natural death. You're in your exposure, so what you've defined to be a woman's privacy and dignity is something that has her own human DNA, something that has her own blood type, something that already sucks her finger and has her eyebrows in the 10th week, something that, despite the week, consumes a whole series of rights independently of birth, starting with family, of course, criminal, etc., etc. If we define him as human at week 25, then he's at 24, which is at the 23rd, which is at 22. etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109487	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109488	You see, the same story as you had in Ireland that fought for the right of the fetus to have the same right to live as its mother, so the abortion by law was banned and the Constitution was introduced and the amendment was introduced, the same thing, the same story, until the death of a 31-year-old dentist whose system had not been allowed to provide health care and to stop pregnancy because the heart of the child was beating, not to say that she and the child had died and afterwards the law had changed and the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109489	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109490	My colleague Glasovac, in your opening statement, you said that you were as a progressive opposition led by medical science, so I will stick to the profession because this bill is all but professional. I must say, it's a little sad not to say tragically follow how you are slowly retiring for this speaker and the whole day around your bill proposal, on the Committee on Gender Equality, you first began to admit the mistakes in the law, now pray to God for a second reading because it's clear that you have failed a pamphletist office that has nothing to do with the actual regulation of a pregnancy that you have no idea about, I will also taxively state in the name of the club where you've made a scientific mistake but you've completely abused this tragedy, and in this tragedy it's all clear to you, so I'm asking you on the basis of what kind of termination of pregnancy can be carried out during the late abortions that you haven't touched in this law at all, and in this regard to you've been collecting signatures?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109491	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109492	Comrade Rasudiæ, I will be anxious to listen to you, your speech and any smart suggestions we will be able to include in improving the law. I don't agree with you to this existing article. 22. what you say is that we are not offering a solution, that it should be added and taken away, if such a law works impeccably in Slovenia, I see no reason why it would not work in Croatia, only if these reasons are not personal or organisational or not organisational. So actually here we will satisfy your wish and insist that this law goes into another reading or yes, that if it doesn't pass as a conclusion that the government is bound to put all of our proposals in the same and that we have the best possible law that we can have and that we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109493	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109494	Dear colleagues of the Voice, first of all, I will conclude that you have not answered any of the last questions, not one of the previous questions. We look at these things differently, and I expected that we would discuss the metrics and face these views, but such a hollow dilettante bill you didn't qualify for the debate at all, and you'll hear it later. Here's an example, so you're introducing a medical abortion into the law, but you're missing out on your own to regulate the current article. 17. which determines that a medical abortion can only be done in hospitals that lead doctors to a violation because the completion of an abortion happens at home, you have completely missed it, so you do not know how to articulate the views and values you stand for. And what's crucial is you say that it has to be done by the age of nine, which is the ancient protocol, so to speak. French from the early '90s, and the 2018 World Organization protocol puts her up to 12 weeks, so either you're more conservative than the world's trend or you haven't consulted the profession on this, and you have no idea what's more likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109495	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109496	I see you're more progressive than we are in some, some things. We already know that during one period of your life, you were a great promoter until you became a professional conservative. I'll break up with my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109497	Please, allow me, please, Mr. Deur allow your colleague to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109498	I do not know what is not clear to you in this law, our bill does not provide for availability or predicts the availability of medical termination only in the authorised institutions that are taxing you in the law, are the same as for accessing so-called. I don't see at all what you have here, which you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109499	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109500	So we have a situation that colleague Glasovac has admitted that the old law or the applicable law is actually about this case that is being discussed quite well and that it solves this issue. The question arises why are the signatures collected, why is the left part of the opposition SDP and We can! Collecting signatures and going to paralyze on this tragedy if the current law solves this case that we currently have in Croatia? On the other hand, Col. Rasdic actually discovered that you did not go to any more liberal interpretation or extend a period within which an abortion could be carried out, but that you suggested what we have in the old law. So, what is this bill of yours for? I think you've figured out what it's for when you want to send it to another reading. He seems only to be serving that you are paralysing on an unfortunate situation, which is actually very bad, but it's only really talking about you and your approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109501	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109502	Article 238, a colleague of the Grmoy insults, of course, as always from We can and the SDP, but in doing so I will immediately answer you to my colleague, Grmoy. This debate exists so that people in Croatia would see that because of you and your thinking and thinking of a significant part of the HDZ there is this unfortunate case as you call it because it came about precisely because of the views you are finally making here public and this debate serves to make Croatia see Who in this country [[Intruder: Time.]] is against the choice of a woman. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109503	You're getting a warning because this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109504	This law came before the Chavayda case, but without it, he predicted some promotions. Not on deadlines, medical indications, conditions under which pregnancy is legally allowed after 12 weeks, but he predicted that deadlines should tear, not delay, that what was happening to this woman would not happen. It will no longer be possible, 3 days is the deadline for the first-degree commission, after 3 days if positive, within 3 days the procedure must be carried out. The same goes for the second degree. And another, not less important thing. It provided for specific rules to prescribe the conditions and arrangements for making decisions and the composition of first-degree and second-degree committees, provided that they must be kept by experts who are not under the influence of conscience. It's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109505	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109506	Mrs. Bencic injured Article 238, an insult to members of the HDZ who have not expressed their views at all, and I don't think that's correct, given that we have been in favour of the law that your predecessors of the SKH have passed for 26 years, and it's liberal and we haven't changed it, and now you're insulting us that we are rigid. So we're keeping your bill of law, your colleagues, your fathers and grandfathers, and we haven't changed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109507	Okay, please, please get a warning, this is where you replicated your colleague. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109508	Dear fellow Glasovac, we disagree on the basic and fundamental issue, which is that life begins with its origin, and that is an extremely progressive attitude for the reason that I studied outside Singapore, for example, and the University of Singapore is like Harvard Southeast Asia and Harvard and Columbia, and at Oxford, life begins with conception. So I think that we should cultivate and cultivate a culture of life, not death, and that's very important to emphasize. As far as this law is concerned, I don't know if you've consulted pharmacists, doctors, but what's important is that contraception is a drug that's like that, which as such is subject to the drug law. And what you're saying about contraception is that there should be a protocol at HZZO already exists from pharmaceutical companies that therefore approach their medicines and apply to HZZO. And if those protocols There are already, this is, this doesn't make sense. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109509	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109510	According to the current law, there is also already one contraceptive to be financed or financed through health insurance. And I don't see any reason why it couldn't apply to everyone else. So we insist that since the latest data on pregnancy interruptions in Croatia have shown that as many as 87.7% of women who went to medical termination on request did not use contraception. Not to mention very low or at one of the lowest levels of birth control in young people. I think we need to do everything we can to make contraception available to prevent and what you're up for as little interruptions as possible, stop pregnancy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109511	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109512	My colleague Glasovac, first of all, I would like to thank you in one way for trying this very difficult actually debate, probably on one of the most difficult topics not only in Croatian society but at the level of the whole world, as much as you can do with this dignity and thank you first for it. Secondly, I really think that this subject is terribly difficult, not only for women, but then for us men and for the whole society, and especially for a conceived child, is there any that happens in a woman. For me, life begins with conception, and I think we should work a lot more to promote life, value of life, but also education, education that is extremely important. I'm interested in having you answer my question, so you're saying that it's necessary to reduce the time of the commission, I'm talking about the opinion, the first opinion of the first-degree commission from 8 to 3 days. We have data, the profession says, I'm talking about genetic analysis that it takes a minimum of a week, so I'm wondering what profession you've been consulting on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109513	We've consulted gynecologists. Thank you. You didn't ask me which one, you asked me if you were consulting with a waist. [[Intruder: Please do not discuss.]] I'm with what profession, I said with gynecologists, gynecological profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109514	Next replica, next replica, respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs Voter Art. 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that every human being has the right to live, I believe, and that today's debate despite all differences on both sides is such that everyone would be happy that the abortion is not there, that abortions should be the exception, but abortions are there and with bans they would not achieve anything. We need to ensure a safe abortion for those women who, despite all the advice from the profession, decide on an abortion to do so within the public health system. In which way you regulate it, it's a question of whether it needs a hospital or whether it needs a health department. But what is also very much debated, which is the right to appeal to conscience, so even hospitals are not obliged to Council of Europe resolution or should be sanctioned if they are in this Hospitals are not subject to abortion but should be dealt with in a different way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109516	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109517	Comrade Cellic, the state is obliged to prescribe something by law, and not only by law, I think, it is clear that every woman must have the right to medical care and all forms of medical care and that simply the system in which you have it prescribed by law, which in nature does not function because of the institutional appeal of conscience is simply unsustainable. Someone said here, we don't break the appeal of conscience, not to end it we're introducing it now for the first time in this law and harmonize with other laws, but we insist that two rights be balanced, which is the right of a doctor to appeal to conscience and the right of a patient to available care. You cannot consume the right to appeal to the conscience of the entire hospitals to harm patients' right to a medical care point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109518	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109519	Thank you very much, Vice President. You fellow voters keep saying in this debate that abortion is part of health care. This would mean that this would be so that pregnancy is a disease and that is exactly how you refer to yourself in a law that, as colleagues have noticed, is scandalously undermined and vice versa because you want to treat pregnancy with abortion, you want to sterilize the introduction as contraception, and call for conscience to be abolished in the manner of totalitarian systems. So these are some things that are carried by the mentality of abortion and I'm sorry that you stand behind a law like this that doesn't follow scientific facts. In his argument, the Constitutional Court said that medical committees, four medical schools were evident that life begins with conception and lasts until natural death. So you deny the fundamental human rights that have been established by the General Declaration of Human Rights and which are written in the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109520	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109521	Thank you very much. A respected colleague has been injured by an officer. 238 in the moment that he's actually twisting everything that we're talking about. I, as a doctor, have to inform her, and in my individual debate, I will present my views so that you may be pleased. This is.../The speaker speaks English./... which has been presented by the World Health Organization, so if the World Health Organization has issued some kind of document, then none of ours are here. opinions, chatter, etc. So please respect what the World Health Organization... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109522	You used this as a replica to get a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109523	Just one thing, when I say health care for abortion you say then you treat it like a disease, no, but the public health system isn't just for the treatment or help in the disease. Health as such is not only the absence of disease but the feeling of well-being, meaning that it is also the prevention of which the public health system needs to be cared for even more than this other one to just prevent this second part. Secondly, secondly, so this is how you were a representative in the European Parliament and you should know that it was adopted in the European Parliament in 2021. The resolution on sexual and reproductive health in the EU in the context of women's health and there is a tax on a document like this for the first time mentions and mentions all the services in the field of reproductive and sexual health that countries must ensure that they are available to everyone, and there is an end to your pregnancy. Well, we didn't suck it out of our fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109524	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Honored Representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109525	He's been injured. 238, because my colleague, the Voter, is belittled me, she wanted to say that I was a representative in the European Parliament without knowing things. A colleague of the Voice is in the jurisdiction of the Member States, the European Parliament in this resolution that you mention is out of its power as well as in many other resolutions. And speaking of science, I appreciate you being a doctor and respecting your knowledge as you should appreciate me being a biologist and respecting my knowledge. Life begins with conception and abortion cannot be colleagues Voter preventive method. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Well, that's scandalous that it's you. They said. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109526	You used this as a replica, please fellow Voter don't argue, you used this as a replica you get a warning. The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109527	This debate between a colleague and a colleague can come down to 11 letters or us or them, there is no big nuance in the metrics of this topic. What is significant in this is that and has passed an undetected colleague from the left opposition that counterpart Karlic, HDZ finally translated into our side by declaring them pro-case party by praising the law that was passed during the second Tito, and the vice-president of their government participates in the protests. Welcome, dear colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109528	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109529	They're coming out of the real color, but this colleague, Bauk, I don't see any reason to answer this line, I think you've said everything, even more than the HDZ wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109530	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109531	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, so we've been listening to the minister all afternoon who kept repeating when you're discussing, so there was another topic, read it, so I suggest you read it. I suggest you read, it's half a text card, says the necessity of modernising the law what the Constitutional Court wrote and the statement in the legislation is that, with the legislator that, with the necessary legislative changes for the abovementioned reasons in the new law, determine educational and preventive measures so that the termination of pregnancy is an exception and you have done so and in this law it is and I don't understand what bothers us, but what I want to open is the subject of an appeal to conscience. Doctors have the right to appeal to conscience, women have the right to abortion, whose right is stronger, we will play Sofia's election or some other writers who have set the subject, whose right is stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109532	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109533	Thank you, colleague Taritash. I'm glad you noticed that this law meets all those requirements that the Constitutional Court has put before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the government has not met it. So this law, as ordered by the Constitutional Court, has set educational and preventive measures for abortion to become an exception, and we have also arranged the costs of pregnancy, the issue of calling for conscience, everything that is 5 and 3 years ago, respectively. She should have made this government, and it's not because she doesn't care about women, and neither does the rule of law, because she doesn't respect the constitutional court's absolute decisions, and tomorrow she'll expect the citizens to respect Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109534	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109535	I thank the chairman. Comrade Voter, I think please stop the time, so give them your word or give me your word, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109536	We'll give you some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109537	My colleague, Glasovac, I don't know what you think, but I now understand why Prime Minister Plenkovic is 5. refuses to implement the constitutional court's decision and to nominate the law regulating the issue of pregnancy interruption, so that he would not have had this debate because in this debate it became clear that Prime Minister Plenkovic's fine-tuned Brussels face does not go against this background because the background has gone deeply into issues which are basic civilizational issues as a question of women's choice and this, this debate comes to him at the moment when a man is running to become head of the EPP, so here he comes in the most awkward, perhaps it would be better if he did so right away in 2018, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109538	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109539	I have nothing to add, I sign, but I really have nothing to add. My colleagues, Bencic, you said everything and once again exposed this two-faced to our Brussels-based Balkan prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109540	You're done responding to the replicas, you can go to your place. Here you go, Jure Bourkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109541	Thank you. Dear Representative Posavec Krivec, I know that your position and you as progressive opposition as you love yourself a beating is diametrically contrary to my position at least as far as this pamphlet is concerned from the proposal of the law on medical termination of pregnancy. I also know that I can get on the eyelashes so that we can discuss here both in argument or in theatre or I will change your attitude, nor will you change my attitude. We also know that all of your agenda tomorrow will fail at the vote and it will be over, but please don't deceive the public, you said 23 thousand unfortunate women die annually because of an insecure abortion, say how many of these women died in Croatia or what the legislative framework was in countries where they died, so just say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109542	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109543	Dear colleague, I will, as my colleague Sabina just said to her colleague Bencic that she fully agrees with what you said, and I will, in part, agree with what you said, and you have said that you and we are very different and that we will never have this same thought and that is why you are taking this conservative side of the assembly, and we are taking this left progressive side of the assembly. And what we have already offered here many times from this pay phone as a progressive opposition is very fast in 3, 4 or 5 or 6 months this side of yours as a legal proposal and adopted, so you may be against this bill tomorrow because you are unable to produce these solutions for a number of reasons that we have offered, but I expect that in a few months you will be forced to come with a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109544	Time, time. Thank you. You're done with your replicas. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109545	I thank you, Mr President, for your honor, the Honorable representative has injured an officer. 238, she said well, we are completely different, but she forgot that we are in the majority, and they are in the minority, and that is a big difference, and simply because of that, such pamphlets from the draft laws that do not work well for Croatian society, at least women's health will not go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109546	Okay, you're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109547	The Honorable President, a colleague, has injured Rule 238, because he has offended me and my colleagues on the left. So, in the democratic elections in the Republic of Croatia, citizens chose both you and us. We're here to advocate their thinking and their rights. So by insulting us, you insulted them. Just because you're in the middle of it doesn't mean that tomorrow we won't be in the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109548	Well, you used this as a replica, too. You get a warning. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first to hold a hearing was reported by the distinguished representative Katarina Nemet on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109549	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, in recent weeks, the topic of a woman, a pregnant woman who has decided to go into the media, is to tell her sad, shocking story, which she unfortunately is going through. And ever since that unfortunate but brave woman went public, we can hear all kinds of comments, theories, explanations, we hear many relativations and judgments. I don't think I'm going to go too far when I say that almost everyone in Croatia today has an opinion on the subject and the situation. So that's a case that's been told a lot in the last few days and weeks and shows that we urgently need to change the existing law that regulates this problem. When we talk about the opinion of the public, I can say that I also came across comments in terms of why she did not simply go to Slovenia, in silence and spared herself and my family this media stretching and crucifying. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that's exactly what the problem is. It's about why she didn't go quietly to Slovenia. The first procedure in Slovenia is not free, but costs almost 5,000 euros. Second, to go to the other side, to seek medical help in such a difficult situation is indeed a blow to her dignity for a pregnant woman. It's really frustrating and amazing that you can't get medical help in your country where you pay for health insurance neatly, but you have to pay for that help in a foreign country. It is horrible and inadmissible that such a large number of pregnant women were sent to Slovenia because the termination of pregnancy in Croatia could not be done. But there are also a large number of pregnant women who are not financially available. These situations all these years were also well - known by gynecologists. But there's nothing that could be done because we have laws that we have, we have procedures that we have, we have the practice that we have, and unfortunately everything goes over the back of women. And it is incredibly but truly considered normal because in Croatia such medical care cannot be obtained, so it is common, and then it becomes normal for pregnant women with severe diagnosis and foetal conditions to be sent to Slovenia. But no, it's not normal and it can't be normal. We must not accept this for granted because it has simply been done for years or because it has simply become a practice. No, gentlemen, it can't and must not be a practice. That's gotta change. And that's why it's good that one of those unfortunate women went public that all of us who can in any way help indicate that there's this inadmissible practice, that we all give our maximum to stop her once and for all, to help all of those women who are going to find themselves in a situation like that in the future. And this particular problem is only one in a series of problems that women face today in Croatia. It is an opportunity for all of us to wonder once what all women are going through in Croatia and what their rights are in our country in the 21st century. First, let's mention business. In Croatia there is more than obvious gap between women and men's salaries. Women are more often engaged in a contract for a certain period of time that rarely expires during a woman’s pregnancy and, of course, does not extend afterwards. Then, neatly and without shame, a woman wonders whether she has children or plans to have them during her job interview. In addition, much harder and slower progress than men. There is then a burning problem of domestic violence or domestic violence. Almost no moon, and maybe even weeks without being shocked by some terrible case of violence against a woman who rarely ends up dying by a woman. Then we're all surprised, we're all shocked, we're gunned down, people, we're announcing a better, more severe punishment, and then it's all quiet to the next case, unfortunately, because there's nothing concrete about it that's not working. And then back in circles. We're going back to the reproductive rights of women. It is obvious that there is a serious and worrying problem in Croatia regarding the right to abortion, which is formally allowed by law, but above all, it is a particularly expensive one, and the other is difficult or unreachable. Especially in smaller cities where there's only one hospital. In addition, worrying that almost 60% of gynecologists and gynecologists in Croatia are calling for a conscience call. Since our gynecologists are called to the appeal of conscience and that our pregnant women are sent to Slovenia for an end to pregnancy because of the disease, they might think that Slovenia has a much more modern and liberal law than we do. But that's not true. In fact, Slovenia has largely inherited its law from the former state, so the same as Croatia, while the provisions that speak of termination of pregnancy for medically justified reasons are almost the same in both countries. Why in Slovenia, in a procedural, simple and dignified way, get all the necessary information and all the necessary answers until this is the case in Croatia? There's literally a woman to yell at here, but they don't usually hear it then. Our wives are placed on a pillar of shame, often denied because of the doctor’s conscience. And when we recapture all these facts, one has to wonder what century we live in? But then we ask each other an equally important question. Why doesn't anything crucial seem to change things? And that's why dear colleagues and colleagues should change them. Under the urgent need to change the existing system or change the procedure because having the law does not mean that it will in practice be good and will be implemented. We need to modernise the system that will then enforce the law and the law that will be good for a woman, not the law to the harm of a woman. We are absolutely against any attempt to question the reproductive health of women and the autonomous decision on our own body. We strongly support and support women in achieving all their general and specific rights. We support the achievement of any form of medical assistance they need and are entitled to, because if any human right exists, it is guaranteed by law, then it is as the word itself says, the right and its achievement in an orderly and civilised society is not being debated, let alone being denied or taken away. And that is why the IDS Club will support this Law because we believe that the 21st century acquired human and civil rights, and especially women's right to choose should be seen exclusively as a civilization achievement that cannot and must not be relativised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109550	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109551	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. In preparation for this debate, I came from what my colleagues had just said, and that is that if we look at this worldly, we will never agree. So each of us has his own position, he has his own opinion, and it's hard for us tonight, no matter how long this debate lasts, and it looks like, by the number of hours reported, we're going to convince each other that it's my opinion or yours right. These are questions that are very difficult, complex, and every time we approach them in a way where we look at only one side and we think there's only one truth, we're probably wrong. There's a lot of mention of the Constitutional Court and what he said, which is what the Constitutional Court wrote and why he's asking for a new law to be passed. As soon as you start to read the existing law, then you can see that there are mentions of self-government organisations, organizations, basic organisations of joint work because from the time we had theseOURs, SOURs and the fact is that termologically in that formal part that law must be rewritten. The Constitutional Court had no problem with content but only with form, with terminology. Work out of it now, I don't know, something, there, the Constitutional Court said, the government didn't react, I see that everyone's moving, there's no way the government's already passing years. It's just that, so I think the government can do it relatively quickly and nothing spectacular is going to happen. So in this debate, I'm going to look at a few elements, the bill that the SDP put in the process together with other parties that are questionable and controversial and we see, it's a lot now interpreted in different ways, whether 10 weeks, whether it's 12 weeks, whether it's gestational, is it like that, but you're saying in the beginning that in different countries it's a different number of weeks. So why 12, why not 20, why not 18, why not some other number. Countries with different borders are listed, and ultimately it comes down to the key question of when life begins. According to this, and some say it's just a legal question, I can't agree with it, but this turns out that life in different countries starts at different times. Sometimes at 12, sometimes at 10, sometimes at 20 weeks, but the truth is only one, which is that life begins with conception. Each mother knows very well that you can see and hear the heart of your child at week 7 when you go to the 1st ultrasound. These are very emotional moments for every mother and if that is indeed so, then here we, the Croatian Sovereigns, could suggest that the border be brought down to 7, let's say. Here. Likewise, in art. 2 it is proposed that a 16-year-old female may apply for termination of pregnancy without the consent of a parent or another legal representative. I'll remind you of the article. 93 Family Law, which states that parents are obliged and responsible for a child under 16 years of age to prohibit night outs without their escort or escort of another adult in whom they trust. So a child up to 16 can't be only out there in a time of 22 to 5 hours, but somehow on that night when he turns 16 he can decide on life and death for you. This transformation from child, whether, to a very responsible person who without the knowledge of parents and without their consent can decide on life and death is quite, like this, fascinating to me. Also, at the age of 16, he cannot participate in the elections. It is assumed that it is not yet mature enough to choose a political option that will rule the state, but life and death can be decided, for which they are mature enough, and by which you have concluded that it is really not clear to me, except that you might want to make a birth control method out of abortion which I hope is neither a target nor a intention. I'll still remind you that from the age of 16. You can't buy alcohol, they're laws in Croatia, but you can go without the knowledge of your parents and without their consent and carry out the abortion. How did you come to this age other than cheating perhaps from extreme liberal countries like the Netherlands and then if it is to be judged by those countries that you took for example I expect the SDP proposal soon to legalise marijuana for recreational purposes and of course prostitution because you have completely disregarded the fact that Croatia remains a dominant Catholic state, dominantly, over 80% of the population are declared Catholic, and therefore it would be more appropriate to copy than countries that belong to a similar worldview and religious definition. And at the end of the article. 3. which says that pregnancy discontinuation cannot be carried out if it is found to be more difficult to disrupt or endanger the life of a woman. Are you even aware that what you wrote is in contradiction with this article because every birth induction, but everyone is a danger to the life of a woman, and therefore only in exceptional cases when mother's life is in danger if, for example, she is in danger. A child in the womb died, and there's a danger of sepsis. So, all of you who in the epidemic of epidemiologists listened without speaking to gynecologists now throw wood and stones, so now I have to wonder if maybe gynecologists are second-class doctors, unlike epidemiologists, and if you only call on the profession when it suits you, and when the waist represents a different position than yours, then you should condemn them and then point out that it is not in their jurisdiction but is in the power of HS. We had a proposal to make decisions, not to be brought by the headquarters in some piece of shit, but to get them into HS, you didn't support that initiative. It's hypocritical, it's hypocritical that you only call on the profession and only when it suits you. Croatian sovereigns will not support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109552	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109553	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we begin to think about women's rights as human rights then today we are talking about this society about one, one situation that is actually a question, a civilizational question where we are going and what we are doing further and in the context of this absolutely want to open the problem and to make it clear, which is an appeal to the conscience that has been mentioned so many times in the context of abortions in Croatia. The appeal to the conscience that doctors are entitled to under the applicable laws is something that none of us dispute, but also women also have the right to medical termination of pregnancy and here we are at the same time in the problem. The right of one in this case cannot be more powerful than the right of the other and for that are the state and the medical institution itself. The appeal of conscience is based on the idea of freedom of opinion, conscience and religion guaranteed by a number of conventions on human rights, as well as a democratic constitution, but it is wrong to put a sign of equality between the freedom of conscience of an individual with the right to refuse in a job paid for by public money, so the money of citizens refuses to provide those same citizens with a service which is lawfully allowed and envisaged, this relationship is very tense, and even less has the idea of freedom of conscience with the fact that a public health institution does not provide any legal and accessible service at all because all or most doctors are calling for a conscience. In this sense, calling for a conscience is not the realization of one's human or civil rights but the opposite, it is a violation of one's rights because in the very basis of the idea of our rights it is that their realisation cannot be such that it violates or deprives someone else's rights. In the parliamentary procedure, it is the conclusion that I ask the government, or the Ministry of Health, to order it to ensure the availability of abortions in all public institutions. I also asked Minister Beros how many doctors of gynecologists and anesthesiologists, as well as specialists of gynecology and anesthesiology in Croatian healthcare institutions, have an appeal of conscience together with information on the total number of doctors and specialists of these professions. The day will come, I will get that answer, so when I get that answer with special pleasure, I will share with the public the response of the government and the proposal for a conclusion as well as the answer of Minister Beros to the asked question, and we will finally really see how it is organised because when I asked our prime minister, the prime minister said that as far as he knows there is no problem, that is my prime minister's answer. The special problem is specialists, with all due respect to all of me the data has come to me and in public it is available that one Croatian hospital has five gynecology specialists who are all in the call of conscience. Does that make sense? Well, we pay for specialists at public hospitals, and they come forward and say they're not gonna do their part of the job. What does that make sense? Imagine that journalists say that the words in which they will write not only words in which C is still not. With full understanding of the freedom of these people's consciences and their strong religious beliefs, but let the specialization of gentlemen pay themselves well, open their private offices in which, in accordance with their conscience, they will decide what they do and what they do. And for public money let them do their job or specialize in something that does not put such challenges ahead of their conscience. This bill, in this sense, regulates the issue more precisely than has been settled so far. What is a reasonable next step is for more appeal to conscience to be governed by a special law and brought into line with all other regulations. But you know what's key, so we know who's in the call and why. These data must be publicly available and on them, those who organise a job should organise their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109554	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109555	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. You said yourself when we begin to think of women's rights as human rights, something will happen in our civilization. The question is, what about the rights of the child? It's a child from conception, we have to understand. And your actual argument about calling your conscience is at least questionable. How can you ask someone when you are employed whether you have a conscience call or not? How is it possible to ask someone at that time? So from situation to situation, it can't be the same situation with every abortion, and that's what I'm guessing to you clearly, just because you're in such a way arguing now what's simply illogical. And who says there are cases where people didn't have a conscience appeal, but after years of abortions done to people something wakes up inside them and realize they're doing something that's not right. It's not right to kill unborn children. The question is for you and specifically when does life begin?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109556	Dear colleague. So when we talk about the appeal of conscience, it's only right to ask in employment because to be clear to the end of gynaecologists when you specialize in gynecology in your specialization process, something that you have to do to be and to be able to pass the specialization is the termination of pregnancy. That means when you're a resident and you're doing it, then you don't have a problem with a pregnancy break, but you have a problem before you have a problem afterwards. Why is he even going into something special that won't work? So imagine that you have a hundred reasons why someone wants to or won't, so this is the right to choose. As far as I'm concerned, women can have a choice not to go to check-up at all, women can have a choice so what's right to choose. You don't have the right either of you or me to mess up and we'll prescribe what someone or how they have to do. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109557	... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Željko Sacic next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109558	Dear colleagues. You were talking about the appeal of conscience that was guaranteed naturally in all layers, all professions. Each profession has its own ethical, delinthological frameworks, and above that and personal, it ultimately guarantees them this civilization. So in Croatia, we had the biggest complaint of conscience as many as 55% of recruits who were recruited to serve the military deadline suddenly felt the call of conscience and would not go to military service and everything was legal. Therefore, if money and in one case the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to appeal to conscience, I do not know what the problem is that a doctor has a conscience to not kill, that he considers for religious, moral reasons he will not kill the fruit, embryo, child, unborn, neonate, etc. I'm interested, so please tell Sandra Bencic is public yesterday. said fetus is not a person [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Please tell me about it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] What's that? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109559	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109560	I think it's extremely good that we've opened this very sensitive issue, it's good to have this debate, it's good that no matter what colleagues from HDZ are or our prime minister said he won't respect the constitution, the prime minister said publicly and said if the constitutional court had 25, 27 or how many years we would have to. It's good that we've opened up this problem, it's good to talk about it, and it's good to say what any of us thinks and who of us is, I'm not going to say on either side or this side. So, every man in his life has the right to choose, every woman has the right to choose, so you act as if in this bill it's an order that someone must interrupt their pregnancy at their fertilized age, so please think about the trauma of this woman who is located and which I don't want to mention any more, think about your wives, your mothers, about your daughters, about the choices that will take place in life, and believe me, they will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109561	The next replica of the esteemed Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109562	Comrade Dark Taritash, please help me or I can't read or colleagues can't read. Have you, reading this law anywhere noticed that in one way, you are defending anyone from having a conscience appeal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109563	So my whole debate and this question of yours and this bill of law is about the doctor having the right to appeal to his conscience. I don't need to repeat what I said, but equally in the public system, women have the right to terminate pregnancy in certain conditions and ways, I'm not going to say it now. Whose right is stronger? You come and knock on the hospital whose work I pay for, we all pay for it together. Whose right is stronger? Whose right is stronger than none. So don't talk about the right of a child that isn't there, you're talking about the right of this child, so all of us who've been through, ask the women who've been through different pregnancies, ask the women who've been in situations that bear fruit that we don't have a chance to live, ask that. So don't put misery, grief, family, women for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109564	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109565	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, historically speaking, women died most often at birth of both royal and heavy women. In principle, we have doctors who have really spent years in school to take care of both the child and the mother and ensure that everything is done properly during pregnancy. The appeal of conscience is their constitutional right. So I expect from doctors who have been educated for some 12 years, some or more years to allow a woman to have a safe birth and a child to come safely to the world, to ask them that they have no conscience appeal is extremely cruel, and I would like to congratulate you that in this whole inflation situation, and that you as left-handed really knew always Recognize Important Themes [[Intruder: Time.]] So you imposed them. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109566	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109567	Thank you very much, colleague Vucilović, on this side of the pay phone and I'm watching you is one of those women who certainly wasn't here that she was having a baby 100 years ago. I wouldn't be here. I was one of those women who when she was having a baby, the last thing I heard was you were saving your mother, and with the child that was going to be. Those are the last words I heard before I got anesthesia. I am one of those women who is two pregnant, one child I had when I was 36 weeks old, one with 32, those who are doctors know very well what kind of pregnancy it is. So I'm one of those women I have the right to speak today when my children are grown up, today when they live their lives. Then the appeal of conscience, we didn't even know it existed. So, I don't challenge any doctor to be in the call of conscience, but I challenge Minister Berosch. and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who must provide [[Intruder: Time.]] that the system works. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109568	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109569	Oh, my fellow Dark Taritate, if anyone understands you, it's me. I had my first baby when I was 41 and the other one was 45. Two very risky pregnancies, and I am grateful to every doctor who has helped me to do the same for me and my children. So if anyone understands you, it's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109570	This was your replica, so you have to get a warning even though you've been telling your experience. Mariana Petir's esteemed representative, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109571	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Mrak Taritash, don't study people's medicine and gynecology specialise for years to do abortions. You take the gynaecologists through this law to someone who only needs to do abortions and that's how you talk from this pay phone. Perfiduously whenever you can set up for the believers, so now you bind your conscience to the believers. What do you mean by that? That someone who isn't a believer doesn't have an appeal to conscience or that he doesn't have a conscience? That's completely absurd. The appeal of conscience is a category defined by international conventions, which is defined by the Constitution. The appeal of conscience cannot be limited even in the war, and through this law you blackmail doctors because they cannot get a job if they declare that they have a conscience call. So you consciously introduce discrimination through this law. And that's something that's terrible, you introduce punishments for doctors, for hospital directors, for hospitals themselves. So it has nothing to do with human rights. [[Intruder: Time.]] You're dodging human rights with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109572	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109573	Dear fellow Petyr, there's a saying about us called the saw upside down. Well, you just turned the saw upside down. At no point in my debate, at any point so far, I have not disputed the right to appeal to my conscience. The appeal to conscience is the right to have, but what I have pointed to, and I will point out all the time, it is the obligation of Minister Beros and it is the obligation of Prime Minister Plenkovic to ensure in institutions paid for by public money that he has a sufficient number of doctors who can do all the jobs. If there are no institutions in those facilities to ensure that those who can do so come from institutions. So it's like we're talking about being carried out I don't know which, what amount of abortions a day, a week or Monthly, therefore, do not turn the saw upside down. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109574	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109575	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear colleagues, you've come to a little bit of a contradiction in your discussion. You say that you do not dispute the appeal of conscience, and then in the sentence behind that you say that doctors who call for a conscience should not work in public, public health institutions. Well, don't you think that that's how you put these doctors in a discriminatory position? It is not right for these individuals, they have the right to a conscience because they have in them what their morals tell them and their conscience not to commit abortion. And everything from the Convention to the Constitution gives them the right to appeal to conscience. We can't think of letting people like that get employed in public health institutions. Tell me, what does this law that you defend, this bill of law, bring new to the law that is now in force and which is applicable? It's just that they're minors. of 16 years of age allows that without permission [[Intruder: Time.]] My parents are making an abortion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109576	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109577	Comrade Jelkovac, we can discuss here by 5:00 in the morning and in each of these discussions we will go out so that everyone will read what they want and the way they want. So tell me one other thing, that I ask you, when a woman comes to the front, a public institution that's paid for by public money, in front of a hospital, and all 20 gynecologists are in the call of conscience. What if she did? How is it that in Croatia, for example in Istria or in the Primorje-Gorski County or in the city of Rijeka there is no conscience? They were not some other college? They finished something else? And for example, in some hospitals are all gynecologists in the call of conscience? Where would a woman ask for help if within a 50-mile radius, 100 kilometers are all in the call of conscience? To die? So we send women to die.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109578	Time. Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109579	I thank the vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Amnesty International says abortion is a medical procedure that represents a fundamental health need for millions of women at world level. One in four pregnancies is estimated to end in abortion. However, access to safe abortion is often disputed or, despite being legal, in many other countries other methods is systematically difficult, which ultimately does not contribute to the reduction of the number of abortions but contributes to the number of women whose health and life has been threatened because they have been forced into alternative, insecure and risky solutions because I do not know if you are aware, but when a woman decides something, she will. Until the moment of birth, the fruit and mother are one and the mother is the one who is the person with the rights and the right to decide about his body and his health. It is only by birth that the fruit becomes a person who then has all the rights defined by law. It is arranged, not only by Croatian but also by international laws and conventions, so the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which protects the right of every person to life, but does not recognise the fetus as a person and does not recognise the fetus as a protected right to life. You can all check this in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vo v France, the ruling of 8 July 2004. The current law governing abortion in Croatia has been truly avant-garde 44 years ago, however, since then medical science has made little progress, and today we have new knowledge that this current law does not recognise and therefore needs to be updated, so the Constitutional Court of this country in 2017 has written a solution which is bound by the HS to adopt a new law within 2 years which cannot be more restrictive than the current law. The deadline set by the Constitutional Court expired in February 2019, and throughout this time since the court's resolution until today, the prime minister of the country is one and the same, as his party colleagues like to point out, the longest. Well, this longest time, it had the responsibility and obligation of his government to send a proposal for a new law to parliament, but the longest-ever prime minister decided to disobey the order of the country's Constitutional Court and not only by pressing and ignoring these days and clearly articulated in the media. And what any citizen should think now about respecting the country's laws when he hears his longest-ever prime minister saying in the camera he doesn't think of doing what the Constitutional Court tells him to do. But well, the government wouldn't do what the court asked, so the opposition jumped in. They followed instructions that are read in the Constitutional Court's resolution. We should not have been more restrictive because we respect that court, HDZ, however, has no problem. There is no problem with disrespecting court solutions, both in this case and in those concerning the right of same-sex couples to foster children. And they have one verdict for corruption as the price of the parties. In short, HDZ obviously has no problem ignoring laws and court decisions. The proposal for a new law has been updated with new medical knowledge. It's not more restrictive than the previous one, it's a little bit more liberal, not as much as we'd really like, and certainly not as much as the uninformed right wants to suggest today. I say uninformed because if they had read the current law, as well as the one proposed by the opposition, they would have seen that some of the objections that are being pronounced today, which are fellows, which on the committees, were not really established. So the fact that an older 16-year-old girl can still request abortion, that's what the old law says. Currently valid. I will also note that the right of a person over the age of 16 is based on the Family Law, Art. 88 which speaks of an informed consent where a person at the age of 16 is able to make a decision on preventive diagnostic and therapeutic procedure regarding his health and treatment. In this regard, it would be additionally good, colleagues and colleagues, if you would like to get acquainted with the general comment No. 15 About the right of the child to enjoy the highest possible level of health, to shorten your procedure, it is an art. 24. Furthermore, the contribution to my claim about the lack of information of some colleagues is that they do not understand that the limit for abortion at the request of a woman has not been moved. However, in this article we were neither more restrictive nor more liberal than the old one, but we only updated it with new methods of measuring the duration of pregnancy that is no longer expressed since the assumed point of conception, but is measured in weeks of gestation, and 10 weeks of conception is equal to 12 weeks of gestures, not one single day moved that limit. Who doesn't get it, read a book. Nor did we deny the right to appeal to our conscience only by law that hospitals must employ both those doctors and doctors who do not have a conscience, so they had to import them from Slovenia. Where there is a will to respect the law there is a way. I would actually like to hear from all the opponents of this proposal which they are specifically opposed to, and what's new than the previous law because that's what might be the basis for today's debate. By investigating the laws on this topic in other countries, we consulted gynecologists not only from Croatia, but from Austria and the UK, Ireland, Canada, Denmark and the Netherlands. You understand, of course, that there are far more liberal laws in the world than this bill of law. There are countries that recognise both the metal health and the well-being of the mother and the socioeconomic differences as a reason for the termination of pregnancy. In some countries, the request goes up to 26 weeks of gestation, and this proposal does not go that far. A small step forward has been made, a proposed law which we felt should be acceptable to one conservative Croatia. And that it is conservative Croatia shows by the persistent election of HDZ in power. And we're conservative, but the HDZ example, despite that, does not exempt us from respecting the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, knowing that the adoption of this law depends on the conservative hands in the assembly proposed a law that is nowhere near as avant-garde as we would say at the Social Democrats Club, and how much women deserve it. This is what we will suggest when we have the opportunity to exercise power in Croatia. And all those objections concerning any right to abortion today are completely pointless and unfounded here because it is not the subject of this bill. In Croatia, abortion is legal throughout the country's existence. In Croatia, the Constitutional Court said it must remain that way and that the law must only be changed in a way that can be updated, it cannot be more restrictive. So all such comments that I won't even call arguments are completely declassified and completely irrelevant. The right to abortion in Croatia is not questionable. In Croatia, there is a question of the availability of this right, the availability of a health service that is legal and regulated. And that is, among other things, what this law is trying to fix. Finally, I will read another part of the report by the UN special rapporteur on torture and other cruel inhumane acts of 2016. It says that women face considerable difficulties in the availability of legal abortions due to administrative and bureaucratic obstacles and refusal by healthcare professionals to act in accordance with legal medical protocols, negative attitudes of healthcare professionals and their incompetence or indifference. In short, safe health services interrupt the pregnancy and subjection of women and girls with humiliating and judgmental attitudes represent mutilation and mistreatment. To be clear, abortion is a question of human rights, women have the right to make their own decisions about their body and their health and have the right not to be condemned and humiliated. Of course the Social Democrats Club will support this bill. In cooperation with other experts, it was written by members of our club both for the first time and for the second time. And if we need a runway for the third time, we'll runway it as many times as it takes to adopt it. If this proposal is not adopted now and we have to write it again from the position of government, be assured it will be much more liberal than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109580	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109581	Here, I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure by my colleague because she violated Article 238, paragraph 1, point 6, which is where it is said to deviate from the general rules of conduct in the assembly, and in a way that, like her colleague Bencic, she said last night that the fetus is not a person in such a way that it violates the constitutional legal values of the Republic of Croatia and the fundamental criminal principles in... Penalties works because the fetus is protected from conception [[Intruder: Time.]] There are criminal acts according to this [[Intruder: Time.]] do not relativise to... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109582	Okay, this was your replica. You're getting a warning. Bojan Glavasevic, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I mean, I'm gonna get a warning about this, too, but let's just say that. So, blasphemy is a term that simply doesn't have a place in the assembly because this isn't a church to discuss something that's a blast or not a blast. We discuss facts here, discuss arguments and laws. We can discuss blasphemia when we talk about theology, say, church doctrine or dogma, and there's no room here for blastemia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109584	It's an interpretation of more other people's expressions, and then you get a warning. ... I didn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, we appreciate that, and we appreciate that you're a linguist, but we need to give you a heads-up. On behalf of the promoter, respectable Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109585	I thank the chairman. Here, I'd like this one to clarify some basic legal concepts here, and that is especially true of you fellow Sacic, but so do you, Mr Bartulica. In fact, the Croatian legal system is almost the same in its basic settings and in any case very similar to the basic settings of all Western European, European and wider legal systems. These legal systems are all resting on some kind of basic social agreement. The right in the end is a deal and a reflection of what we as a society agree to be some of the rules we stick to. In doing so, what are basic legal settings does not necessarily have to meet the morals or values or attitudes of each of you, but it is a social agreement. One of the social agreements that makes it a question of when human life begins completely legally irrelevant in this case. One of these social agreements is that a human being, that the creation of a human person with all rights and obligations, is born. You can think of it as a moral person from conception, you can think of it as a man of conception, but the right clearly says that a human person becomes at the moment of birth and that is the social agreement of our country, that is the social agreement of every other EU country, and I will now tell you outside of this law how this is reflected in our legal system. You can see that this is so that the embryo and foetus are not treated in a legal sense, again I allow you personally each can have a completely different view, but in a legal sense that they are not treated as human beings showing some basic postulates from the Roman law that we inherited. For example, the fetus cannot inherit, here are colleagues and colleagues who have studied the right to know that it has the right concept of a nasciturus, he cannot inherit. Fetus can't have an OIB, he can't have an address, he can't have a name and name, so something that's based on every human personal name and last name, if it can't. It can't and isn't exactly because of all the protection of the state that, for example, human beings have. Among other things in the Croatian legal system are human persons and women. It's the same progress and the consequences of so-called. the progressive center, the left, etc., and women are human persons, but from birth, from birth. And you see, because of that, and in a law that regulates the issue of abortion, the constitutional court when it interprets it says that by the 10th week, the woman's right to choose prevails, and it is absolutely in the sense that no one in any way can dictate whether or not she will be born, whether or not she will decide on an abortion, she can decide in those 10 weeks for abortion for any reason, not be medical, not needing to be economical, we should not say constantly that she has made the most difficult decision of her life, we don't know whether each of them is the most difficult decision of their lives, it's her right, her freedom, and no one has the right to ask her why in those 10 weeks. When you talk about counseling, which you are talking about except for the counseling that a woman has with her gynecologist, which other counselling might be, perhaps, psychologists because they may not be normal women who, within those 10 weeks, decide on their right to an abortion, so they may need a psychologist or maybe so on. A priest. So I repeat, this legal system rests on the agreement, it's a social contract, it's such an agreement not only with us but in the entire civilized world, and that's why the question that you impose when life begins is not relevant, it's relevant when a human being comes into existence, it comes from birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109586	Time. Marko Milanović litre replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109587	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's my colleague Bencic wouldn't believe I'm a great woman's rights fighter, I'm fighting for every unborn. I fight for every unborn woman and every child in my mother's womb. [[Bencic: You wouldn't believe it.]] So this is what your attitude is about when it becomes. become a human drink person it is your private attitude, so 4 Faculty of Medicine in Croatia have confirmed, and I will repeat, indisputable scientific fact that during pregnancy it is a matter of human life in stages you said embryos and fetuses, but it is a human life and it is crucial in this entire debate when human life begins, if you know answer me then there is no discussion further and after that moment is all murder, in mine, from my perspective is it after the beginning. [[Bencic: That's not an attitude/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109588	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109589	I thank the chairman. Here's Mr. litre for you, especially once more. When human life is created is not a legally relevant fact for the creation of a human being, so these are legally two different concepts. It is relevant for the creation of rights and obligations, please colleagues who are lawyers who can confirm this to you, a human being with rights and obligations is born. The moment of life in this sense is not crucial, it is a crucial social agreement, I repeat the social agreement in all developed countries of the world is that a human being is born, so it is not a question when life is born but when a human person becomes a legal person in the legal sense of the word. I'm sorry, Mr. litre, if you can't tell the difference between these two things, but our constitution distinguishes them, our laws distinguish them, not only this law, but the law in the area of civil law, the law in the area of criminal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109590	Time, time. Replica esteemed Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109591	Dear colleagues Benčić, we have had the opportunity to listen together to the colleges of criminal material law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb from respected professors, from our significant bars, so from Bačić I don't know if you had the opportunity, etc. To short the story and not, it is not correct of you as colleagues of a lawyer who I know very well about the concepts and knows the legal institutes to speak colloquially on an open fetus is not a person who is significantly relativizing the whole story, is it a message that the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia does not at all protect an object, an object of value that comes from the constitutional category, means the fetus has its own status and it has its own criminal protection, however, is prescribed punishment in part for those who sin against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109592	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109593	Here it is, Mr. Chaichi, Sacic, I'm sorry. So speaking of criminal law, so after the 10th week of pregnancy, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the woman's right to choose is limited from 3 to 3 specific cases, so it is limited because it is believed that, after a certain time, the state has something called the right to protect. But not a human being and a criminal right to tell you that again because look out, here's an example that just shows it, so I'm going to point it out. So when you have, say, a car accident where a pregnant woman is killed, the one convicted of causing a car accident is convicted of causing a car accident with a fatal one. The outcome of a human being. [[Intruder: Time.]] One.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109594	Next replica, respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109595	Dear colleagues. Our country, the Republic of Croatia, is according to some statistics when it comes to the number of abortions at the very bottom. So the smallest number of abortions is about, is that, is happening with us. And then we have a situation that in 2019 in Drežnice, as many as 428 women went to an abortion in Drežnice, Slovenia. I'm interested in your comment on these figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109596	Thank you, colleagues, for that. Here you can see, as the legal systems of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia are very similar in principle, so some of the basic postulates that I was talking about are the same, and even this law that regulates the issue of abortion is the same and is actually its basis in '78. However, what is fundamentally different between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia is that Slovenia has governments which, by some miracle, are committed to law enforcement and this is not the case with us. That's not the case in Croatia. The rights of citizens in many aspects are not protected in the way it says in the Constitution and the law, and then our citizens, in different ways, occasionally or permanently, flee to other countries where there are governments that guarantee their protection of their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109597	Next replica, the esteemed Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109598	Thank you. Comrade Bencic, I have listened carefully to your presentations. For me, this distance between a human being and a human person won't get us far. Why? Because according to today's Western debate in countries like Croatia, some theorists say that a human being becomes a person in the fullest sense when it's adult, for example, you have such a thesis. You claim it's by birth, others say it's later. However, if you are consistent with this attitude, why, do you agree that there should be a limited possibility of 10 or 12 weeks or why it would not be until birth itself, therefore not yet, it is not a human person, so many with so-called. progressive left-lefts are involved in late-term abortion, so before birth, He's still laughing. [[Intruder: Time.]] Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109599	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109600	So this is how, since we supported and gave the signatures for the bill sent by the SDP, then you probably see that the progressive left in Croatia is also for a distinction between the period in which the right to choose is absolute and the one in which it is limited to the interests of the state. So that's the distinctions that are being recognized. Why do they confess? Why do they confess? For reasons of being considered and it's okay, so the elective abortion, so the abortion at the request can be carried out within the first 10, I'd say that you should really extend to the full 12 weeks and now I'm going to tell you why, and you should extend it to the full 12 weeks for reasons why women doing the test, a genetic test that points to severe malformations already at week 10 and are found at week 11 and should allow them to decide independently without a commission by week 12, for example whether or not not based on this test to decide on an abortion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109601	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109602	Thank you. I rarely use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I have to do something.../incomprehensible/... I'll call for an article. 238, so you said the state's interest after 12 weeks. It's about the child's interest, so that's what this is about... not the State. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you have this, this is confusing. Here, I'm going to say one more thing, what you said earlier is that the Prime Minister is terrified of this, this debate, it's horrifying, and that's why we're here at 10 and 20 in the evening. You're right there and I'm sorry that this debate isn't before noon that can be followed by the public because they're very important topics, which we'll agree on, but it's about the child's interest. [[Intruder: Time.]] not the State. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109603	You know it's a warning yourself. Next replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109604	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You, as a lawyer, have actually explained what the legal profession interprets. I was, like, on a round table today where she was also a criminal law professor and she just confirmed it, and today, on the board, the attorney general was talking about the rule of law. However, we now forget why we are here and why we have proposed this Law. So we proposed the Law because the Constitutional Court ordered that, in 2017, within 2 years, the existing law of 1978 should be improved. So the Government has not done so far, we have offered this, all that the Constitutional Court has asked for and that should be discussed. So here we don't question either mine or this, nor this doctor's position over there, is there any need to ban abortion, not ban it, it's legally possible and we just have to legal basis to improve and that is the measure to be discussed. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109605	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109606	Thank you, colleague Maric. Yeah, let's get things back to square one. There are several facts, the prime minister himself said he has no intention of respecting the constitutional court's decision, and that is what Minister Beros said in the end, but they do not want to do it because they do not want a debate that will show that a significant part of HDZ actually wants to ban an abortion, and that is not convenient for them 80% of people in Croatia believe that it must never be banned and that it is women's right to choose. However, there is one more important thing, which is that what the prime minister has decided together with Minister Beroshe is to amend the law, but through the practice of the commissions illegally and counter-constitutionally setting a border on the 22nd week of the border that the law does not know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109607	Okay, you get a round of applause you can do. A club of MPs of the Homeland Movement, respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's almost ten and a half night, in a way I'm sorry that this important debate takes place at such a late hour, I think it deserves an appointment in the morning where everyone could listen to arguments from different positions. We will not agree safely today on this issue, but I think it is a shift that we are even talking about this topic, and above all, it is because of the failure of the ruling HDZ in particular, who are very much avoiding and afraid to put forward their views on these issues. So, we won't agree, I've had very interesting discussions with some colleagues today, with a progressive left, I think they're still in error, but we've been talking for quite a while, and I think it's good, because it's fundamental issues where unfortunately there's no room for compromise or a human being that's about to be born or not, there's no environment where we can settle for example in tax policy and so on and so on and so on and be so strong emotions. I would initially refer to the constitutional court's solution, I think it's important to underline some things. First of all, our constitutional judges insist it's a world-famous issue, and I don't see the issue of abortion as a world-class issue at all. So I have a lot of colleagues, friends who are not raised in Catholic religion, atheists, agnostics, different worlds that share a similar opinion as I do, and even some who participate in the “Hed for Life, ” thus not a secular question. I think human mind is capable enough to apply fundamental principles in the right way to come to the right conclusion. Therefore, it is not necessary to call upon the New Testament or the Holy Scriptures to make their views and arguments. Secondly, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, our constitutional judges have said that every legislator, so I have the right in the assembly to determine when human life begins. I'm going to say that I disagree with what is said, I think it's very important to say it out loud and clear, I don't see it at all as a controversial fact, so if it doesn't start with a conception, I'd like to hear when human life begins and which is why it's at some point after conception. So, I didn't hear any other coherent thesis that would kill my attitude and the attitude of modern medicine if it were to be conceived for all of us, so we all came into existence. The appeal of conscience, look not by chance that a large number of doctors are called to this very question, it should not surprise us. It's not a simple procedure, so I think it shows that it matures the world as much as you don't like it, it matures awareness of the scale of things, and I think it's something we should certainly protect further. So, aggressive opposition to this institute and insist that when a certain young doctor or doctor asks for a specialist in gynecology to plead, I find it totally unacceptable, totally unacceptable. So, what are the arguments? So we've heard more than once that it's about the wife's body, that she has the right to choose and so on. When I teach various moral topics to my students this argument seems to them to be the weakest truth, there is no power at all, so it comes down to more or less who is stronger that pressurer and it is the first year of college students quickly see that it is not some kind of philosophically serious justification on this subject. So that shows more weakness of your arguments, I'll say it openly since I've been following this subject and dealing with it I haven't heard a single actual argument that would justify this act. I will mention when we talk about doctors one piece that came about a hundred years ago, so in Germany of the two prominent experts of the time Alfred Hotche and the leading lawyer Karl Binging, they published one piece, so this is 15 years before the Nazi came to power in Germany, publishing a book called "Enable the destruction of life that is not enough to live, it's my free translation. Enabling the destruction of a life that is not worthy of living. Why would I bring that up? Because German medicine is actually morally already compromised before Hitler arrived. They were already willing to determine who had the right to live by their standards and who not. And the Nazis were just happy to welcome the already compromised doctors who then quickly became available to them in a machine to kill various people who were recognized as those who were not worthy. So, if we're going to make a deal, like my colleague Bencic said, from a social contract. So, in which cases we'll allow killing, I think it's very dangerous to insist that doctors do it, that doctors do it, I think it's a very dangerous idea, and we have very much evidence from the history of the 20th century that it leads to a dark street. I asked an earlier question why limit the actual abortion to 10 or 12 weeks. For what? If that's right, many on the left, so on the so-called. Pro-choice parties advocate to make it possible to give birth itself. Why is that limited as it has been in '78? Sir, why didn't you go through it, liberalize it and make it possible, if it's not a human being who's a subject of legal protection, why not make it possible to deliver? You haven't given a clear answer. I'll mention, there's a lot of theory here, there's also talk about various conflicts of law, the appeal of conscience, this, this, what, moral dilemmas, but I'm going to give a case of gynecologist so-called gynecologist. The king of abortions from America, his name was Bernard Nateson, by his own admission, had miscarried over 1,000 children and his own child had failed, he was at the head of the movement to legalize the abortion, leading the gynecologist in New York who had suddenly changed his mind about it after seeing the ultrasound of what it looked like in the work, visually, he saw it and suddenly changed his mind and actually became a great advocate of pro-life attitude. These are the people of practice who have actually a great deal of their lives devoted themselves to this subject and I think, as he says, I read his autobiography, I thought he was doing a noble thing, for years and suddenly changed his mind and became a passionate advocate of the second attitude. It happens to people in practice. We can talk here in Parliament what we want, I'm telling you specifically about people who have been in it for years. So colleagues and colleagues, once again I will say, as we heard during the pandemic often and on your side of the assembly, every human life is worth it. We've heard this with the right and debates about vaccination, about measures to stop the spread of the virus, etc., but obviously that logic or that sentence is not worth the question. So I'll repeat, let's be consistent, every... It's worth it at the time of the pandemic and at the time of actually, pregnancy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would say once again that I don't consider this something that is determined by the world's horizon, I think that we can apply the general principles, I see it as a fundamental question of justice, so it's another human being, whether it deserves some protection, a minimum of justice is to give to everyone who belongs to it. In my eyes it means an unborn child who has no ability to defend himself, protection. No exceptions. It means without exception, and it can't be a criterion whether a child is healthy or sick, let's be honest. I don't want company just for the healthy, so-called. Perfect people. No, I don't. There must be space and space for both the sick and those who are not perfect. Would Croatia be a better country if, for example, there were no people with Down syndrome? There are people like that in Europe. Iceland boasts of it. She boasts that she became a country with people without Down syndrome. I mean, it terrifies me, and they're proud of it. In the end, I would, however, quote Cardinal Stepinac, he said, among other things, the abortion is possible why we don't hear the cry of an unborn child, but if we.../incomprehensible/... if we heard it blood would freeze in our veins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109609	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109610	Art. 238, a fellow representative demeans other MPs and twists the facts. Yesterday, you and I had a similar conversation somewhere like this, but I warned you at the time, you knowingly deceive the Croatian public, citizens and MPs. You know very well that children with children with Down syndrome mean absolutely something different than Mrs. A chawide that carries fruit with severe malformations, and it's not the same. And don't say that. Paralyze and lie consciously to the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109611	Time, time. And you get a warning because this was a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109612	Thank you. I have to react, we've had a confrontation on this show, I'm not paralysing or my exposure to this tragic case, so it's not at all about it, but what my gynecologists are saying is that a large number of unfortunately intentional abortions are about cases of children where they've been found to have down syndrome unfortunately means I can't get away from it because these are facts that many are telling me, it's not about this tragic case now, I'm not misleading anyone but I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109613	Time, and you get a warning. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109614	Most of us remember the verse “God has 10 commandments, and the State has laws. ” Here we have sworn thanks to God for the laws, and in church thanks to the law in the mosque and the synagogue can swear to God. I respect, I only admit one law on how this song goes on, and in this particular case it would be a constitution and an article. 21st which is the basis for this debate. Art. The 21st century of the 1st century speaks every human being has the right to live. We have a '78 law. and the Constitution of the '90s and I was wondering if when the constitution was passed, there were attempts to bring this definition of the right of life into the constitution. Believe it or not, in accordance with the agreement of the HDZ Representatives Club, I propose that it be in the article. 21st paragraph also changes that "every man has the right to live from conception to natural causes", MP Neven Jurica, a representative of the social political council of parliament. In a public debate, the same proposal was submitted by Ivan Bitunac of Greece, Dr. Antun Lisac from Vetova, Assembly of the Municipality of Slavonski Brod, Zdenko Knezevic representative in the Council of Joint Work, Local Community of Mihaljevci, Vidovci Municipality of Slavonska Požega, Branch of HDZ Local Community Proleter Trnje Zagreb, Local Community of Požeški Brestovac, National Shrine of St. Josip Karlovac, Župni Office Gornja Stubica, Župni Office Ilock, group of citizens of Bosniaks, Family Centre Slavonski Brod, Marija Bajt representative in the Social Political Council of the Assembly, Assembly of the Municipality of Karlovac, people of the village Donji Lucani, citizens of the Local Community of Odra and Mala Mlaka and as the sugar association of citizens from Zagreb, association of pensioners of the Municipality of the Centre, population of Župe Lipovljani and the public community of the local community Pleternica and ultimately the Municipal Committee of HDZ Slavonska Požega. So, there was a joint venture to introduce a provision in the Constitution of the '90s on the right to life from conception. This was discussed at the plenary session by MP Milan Tapalovic and Vjekoslav Zugaj. At a session of the Constitutional Commission on 6.12.1990. Constitutional Commission President Vladimir Seks said, I would pray on my own, if you could just pay attention to one amendment that was on the page. 33 per article. 21. Every man has the right to live from conception to natural causes to all conjecture of the legislation and other amendments. Constitutional Commission member Nikola Viskovic warned that if it stays that way it is an inability of abortion, it is clear, it cannot be accepted socially and I do not know which country Europe now when we call on Europe has one such formulation. It is a matter of legal arrangement that both for the sake of society and for the good of the family and especially for the mother of a child regulates the positive and negative possibility of termination of pregnancy, but cannot be prejudged in an absolute way by the constitution so as to prevent any termination of pregnancy, it cannot be because it is very often and particularly dramatic conflicts of interest between the life of a mother and the life of a child, among other things. The debate was concluded by the President of the Constitutional Commission, who said I agree, the question is whether the constitutional provision would have been a constitutional implication of absolutely anti-dumping legislation excludes abortion in incests, criminal and did not complete the sentence, so there was a debate and the motion was rejected and what we are hearing today is an attempt to, after a number of years of 30, as in America after 50 years. in the Constitution, return this provision, with 101 votes or a referendum, until it remains in force of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is precise and clear, in this respect, the Constitutional Court has found that the unborn being enjoys constitutional protection as a constitutionally protected value in the sense of Article 1(1) of the Constitution. The 21st constitution only to the extent that it does not conflict with the right of a woman to privacy. The right to the life of an unborn being in this sense is not protected so that it has an advantage or greater protection than the right of a woman to privacy. The Constitutional Court also assessed that the legislative solution that we now have in the law and which we propose did not disrupt the fair balance between the constitutional right of a woman to privacy and freedom and personality on the one hand and the public interest in protecting the lives of unborn beings guaranteed by the Constitution as constitutionally protected value on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109615	Replica, dear Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109616	Thank you, colleague Bauk, for visiting us on a stenogram 30 years ago, too bad it wasn't St. Toma Aquinsky is whether who lived in the 13th century, who told them next, abortion is not a murder until the moment of fetal animation, it's 40 days, so until the moment the soul enters the fetus and St. Toma as a beginner of Catholic thought and a Catholic church all the way up to the 20th century would say so, don't do that. It's interesting that the pope who in the second half of the 12th century moved that border to 10 to 12 weeks quote, while the moment a woman feels the fetus and that's it. These are the fathers of the Catholic Church of St. Toma Aquinsky and St. Augustine. Please, as we speak here, especially about the eastern, very eastern part of the world, each eight women die from an illegal abortion and therefore needs a new law on abortion. Too bad my law was stopped Like Milanovic said. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109617	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109618	Thank you. What you said about the interpretations of St. Tom and the Pope you mentioned has not been known to me so far, and there may be an argument in the debates with those whose argument it is. What might be even clearer here is that in fact we who are proposing this and who are seeking to remain such a solution, to fight for our daughters to have the right to what our mothers and our wives have fought for our nones and grandmothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109619	The debate on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club of HSS and RF respected representative Katarina Peovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. On behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109620	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to look back just because I signed up on behalf of the proposer, so not as an individual debate. I'll consider something that's been discussed so far, objecting to my conscience. Objection to conscience is not just a question of gynecologist. We've heard he's also tied to the military issue. The question of conscience is a general concept that can be used for many things. The issue of voluntary handbooks or civil service was specifically mentioned here. We sort of suspended the mandatory military deadline for reasons we eventually entered NATO, so we thought NATO was protecting us. However, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, we had the right and the duty to defend our country. I ask you if in this percentage you would have objected to your conscience because not everyone is being anemic, in the same percentage as today we have gynecologists if we would win in Storm, would we free Croatia, would Croatia be an independent and independent state. But you know what else makes me sad? Yes, when we created all this today, I watch commercials on TV with a national concession that advertises the screening operation in Belgrade. What does that mean? Just like this human drama that happens to a woman. So after the Croatian state decided to help this woman, she will still have to go to Slovenia. That's why we fought? If we continue to object to our conscience, we will have primary schools for non-tholic children. You love your neighbor, you can love your neighbor, but you have to take special care of your wife so that you do not honor her. But there's one common denominator here for everyone in the assembly, and I'm going to use the prop first time I've used it. It's a prop here. I think we all have to work together to make unwanted abortions as little as possible. I am not sure that religious science teaches the use of something approved by the Catholic Church. See, that's this thing right there. I expect replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109621	You have one replica. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109622	Thank you very much. Now that you mention the appeal of conscience, I think the appeal of conscience should work. Right to abortion absolutely yes, right to the appeal of conscience absolutely yes, right to euthanasia absolutely not. Right to the MPO absolutely yes. That's what I said when I was a minister and I'm talking right now. Will it change? I doubt it. My colleague Bauk seemed to be serving a military term in the infectious. You weren't in contagious? No, then I confused you with someone. Sory one of the SDP's former ministers served in the contagious. Did he have an appeal for a conscience to carry a weapon? The appeal of conscience exists, should be respected but is the obligation of founders and owners, which is five County hospitals of the Holy Spirit and four more is to find one, two gynecologists. It's resolved in 24 hours that will do what needs to be done, and to that public, this time to women and that's abortion. I'm sorry, Arsen. I didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109623	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109624	I'm not from the profession. I pay, pension and health contributions as well as the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If the state of Croatia provides for one public service regardless of how it is regulated, then in public institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local or regional self-government must ensure this. And there may be a colleague, Ostojić, and we disagree. For objecting to the conscience of a private clinic. From that point of view, it is my personal grudge and this law which, according to the complaint of conscience, is essentially extremely flattering and conservative of this proposal as opposed to what is now part of the world’s avant-garde.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109625	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109626	Thank you. Article 238 has been violated, so all European conventions, the Croatian Constitution, all Croatian laws allow for the appeal of conscience. A colleague just attacked a conscience call and said that those who have an appeal to conscience should not work in public institutions. So he would discriminate against doctors and people who have a conscience appeal, drive them out of our health care, and we have a lack of doctors anyway. This is therefore the solution to this progressive left for lack of health care in Croatian health care The system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109627	You're getting a warning, it was a replica. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109628	So I'm going to talk very specifically about the bill itself. First of all, I would like to point out firstly that this proposal is a populist couple of excellence, does not solve the biggest problems of the existing legal framework and serves exclusively to signal its own virtue. The problem becomes worse when we know what moment is happening and that, apart from taking advantage of one family for its own political promotion, it humbles a particularly important and sensitive topic, it makes it impossible for social dialogue to become widely wider and thus contributes to further social divisions on this issue. In particular, I'm going to explain now why it's a populist couple of excellences, not an over-legal proposal. First, this legislative proposal boasts that it is necessary to look at and move the border from what they say 10 weeks of gestation age, and further states that a period of women on abortion is being raised at the request of 10 to 12 weeks of gestation age. And hence all the questions, this is a quote from the bill, a question in public whether you have liberalized the existing legal framework. Someone who writes the law should understand the difference between conception, gesture and amenorrhoea. We can't say it's a random mistake if it's repeated over and over again. This is a fundamental misunderstanding because, if not known, it is not possible to compare weeks of pregnancy to which abortion is allowed in different EU countries, given that the duration of pregnancy is calculated in three different ways in different countries. Secondly, the forte of this law is finally introduced into the legal regulation of a medical abortion, so it is said that, unlike the surgical abortion, a medical abortion is recommended up to 9 weeks of gestation age and it is said to be performed only in some parts, some places that are incorrect because today is dominated by a medical abortion. The problem is that the completion of a medical abortion takes place at home, which is contrary to the current legislation that allows only the authorised institutions or hospitals to do so, it does not work here. It is incorrect to assume that a medical abortion is allowed up to 9 weeks of gestation age. It's an old-fashioned procedure from the package leaflet, so-called French protocol from the early '90s. The 2018 World Health Organization Protocol sets the limit of medical abortion up to 12 weeks of gestation, there are many other protocols, but the point is to enroll when a medicine, because it is a medicine, can not be applied in law because practice is changing. What matters is what week of gestation can end pregnancy, and the way it breaks is not the law but the profession. The question of what law should be regulated? What about education? Some measures of family planning and preservation of reproductive health have already been defined by the programme of health care measures in women's health protection activities and in the activities of school and adolescent medicine, as well as in health care measures conducted by public health institutions related to the prevention and prevention of sexually transmitted infectious diseases. If the future law on pregnancy termination is regulated solely by the right to this procedure, it should not specifically mention the role of education in the prevention of pregnancy interruptions, except that measures to promote and protect reproductive health and responsible sexual behaviour will be regulated by other regulations and guidelines of the profession as usual. It's a matter of contraception. Free contraception is prescribed at HZZO cost as well as education obligations to prevent pregnancy and sexually responsible behaviour. That law shouldn't even be regulated. Contraception is considered a medicinal product subject to the drug law. The profession determines what medicine to advise the woman. Putting contraception into the law is a disaster in fact discrimination against women because no one has the right to determine whether or not they can and when and how a woman or a man can use contraception. Contraception if it is to be free should be agreed with the HZZ, not that it stands in the law. Sterilisation should also not be put into law as a method of contraception, which is defined by the guidelines of the profession. What about the question of where to make the abortion? I will only remind myself that in a number of EU countries it is not carried out in all institutions that are left over from the past law but carried out in specialised clinics. As regards the age limit of 16 years, this is already regulated by the Family Law of Article 88, informed consent of the child to medical procedures. As far as the protégé issues are concerned, independently of the work which deprives business skills, etc., this is not well written. We need to consult with family law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 235(5) describes the actions and tasks which a person who is deprived of his or her ability to carry out, which shall indicate a decision on health and then in Article 5. 258 stated that without a custodian, an abortion may occur unless otherwise described in the preceding articles. As regards the procedure on request for termination of pregnancy, the first-degree commission is referred to which it is required to decide on a request for termination of pregnancy from art. 5 of this Act within 3 days of the date of receipt of the request, etc. It's a copied article. 23 old laws, but it's been changed for three days now. It was eight days old. It would be far more appropriate to ask the profession how long it takes to carry out extensive tests and consultations. Do any of the legislators know what I can come for, for example, the results of genetic analysis? As regards the records of the service provider and all of what is referred to in Article. Article 11 13, etc., all these procedures are already regulated by standard operating procedures in hospitals and do not need this Law to teach doctors how to do their work in this sense in what is already regulated. Finally, the question that is really problematic is not at all touched by this Law, the issue of late termination of pregnancy. In a number of developed countries, it is allowed as a deadline for pregnancy discontinuation between 20 and 24 weeks of pregnancy. In Croatia, we have not regulated this more in detail after weeks of pregnancy, nor have we differentiated the legal framework, such as some other countries are in the sense that we are withdrawing the difference between a fetus that is not expected to survive outside the mother's body and foetus with such serious conditions that even with medical interventions, the chances of survival are small, where the question arises whether someone has given appropriate care and regulation of this case at all and through the Penal Code, because the issue that we are talking about in public is, if we are already talking about the termination of pregnancy after 12 weeks, and this case is a late termination of pregnancy, what is the termination of pregnancy? Is it premature delivery or what is called feticide, and on the basis of which we say that such termination of pregnancy is possible or necessary because we are coming here to the area of legal uncertainty, the possibilities of interpretation and someone to answer for these actions, which is why we ended up having this whole legal consecration that we have been witnessing lately. The key question for us today was whether we should have the courage to deal with this matter that is not well regulated in law, and not to deal with these other proposals in which the profession is certainly not sufficiently consulted, which, I must say, is a disgrace to the promoter himself. As far as your conscience is concerned, you cannot say that you are neutral because in the Law itself you say that there is a difference between a doctor who calls for a conscience and one who does the job according to the rules of the profession. What does that mean? That one who calls for a conscience doesn't do business according to the rules of the profession? And it must be in the commission that does not call for a conscience, although it is not the commission that carries out the abortion, it includes a number of other experts. Finally, I want to highlight a serious ethical dilemma, which is the loss of the moral status of vulnerable social groups, a trend in the standardisation of genetic interventions that indicate that just segregation based on genotypes will be the main source of social inequality in the future. The practice that is promoted by these researches and becomes part of midway medicine is not new. Today, amniocentesis and platnocentesis are also common procedures for early detection of undesirable genetic diseases. Today it is already understood that the possibility of our coming into the world depends on the desirable genetic base we have at our disposal. So, I mean, while we're here legally [[Intruder: Time.]] We are discussing abortion, in some other dimensions [[Intruder: Time.]] And those sciences, the decision may have been made a long time ago. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109629	On behalf of the promoter, respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109630	Thank you. Well, here's what I'm going to do from what my colleague Bencic said. That a tragedy or an accident, as you call it here from the middle part that happened to mrs. Cavidi would be significantly smaller and would not contain this difficult and insolent treatment that the Croatian healthcare system has afforded for the past 25 days, if there were no such ones as you, if there were no such attitudes. ... Please, if you want to talk, you can come out freely after the chairman doesn't react. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So people like you in our society according to Ipsos's latest research have exactly 7%. But some strange social flows involving the same people as you who are sitting here, but now they've gone a little pale, we've come to the point that there are 60% of them among our gynecologists and gynecologists. And we have come to the fact that the principles of our health institutions have them almost 100%, fortunately no more 100%. What's involuntarily also, to call on professions and professional arguments precisely you who have been riding on this profession for the past two years, demeaning that profession, all that the profession has been telling, you know those 98% of the doctors that have been vaccinated, you've claimed that the waist is stupid, silly, bought, here. What are we talking about? What is your profession now? Oh, yeah, we know what profession. You're advocating that profession, the very profession that drags its worldview through its so-called so-called. expert opinion. So, the profession of the Ministerial Paralegal, which has no authority or authority to meet, let alone to deliver an opinion, let alone to give this opinion to the public, let alone to disprove the opinion of the legitimate first-degree committee of St. Ghost. That commission led by the man who claimed 10 years ago, 10 years ago that we should not freeze embryos which is by the way standard procedure in medically assisted fertilization, you know, because that's how we sacrifice brothers and sisters. So, a blast of a few cells, sacrificed brothers and sisters. Yeah, that's the profession you're calling on. I'm really sorry. Third absurd, or maybe it's another one, I'm not sure who's mentioned here. It is you who advocate to ban pregnancy and claim that it should not be, that it must be, or that it should not be at all, that you are the ones who would prefer never to introduce education to schools. So there's no prevention no, but as God has given you. And that's the key to this debate, that in the story of the world's worldview, it's actually a projection of your conservative fantasy where women don't have the right to decide about their body. And I'm going to say one more detail, so I'm not sure that colleague Selak Rasdic understands what it is and how a medical interruption is performed. Therefore, the medical discontinuation of a two-step pregnancy when given tablets and given in the second part of the tablet is one part completed at the hospital and then the woman with the bleeding menstrualally, so what happens afterwards is similar to menstrually going home. What you mean by that to me is really not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109631	Replica, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109632	I must admit, I didn't expect to laugh so well at this late hour and be well-tired. So, as usual, I was very specific and reasoned. So, I specifically cited problems of medical interpretation, expert interpretation of legal articles. And you answered that with no argument, but you danced there for a pay phone with that envious gesture. And it was nice to look at it too, I must admit that it relaxed me and made me laugh, but if even the doctor sitting here in your ranks had no concrete answers, arguments about what I taxed, I think you've openly signed a professional capitulation on your bill, which I've been warning you all along. You didn't make a legal proposal to regulate this issue, you made a pamphlet for public bickering and winning political points on another's tragedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109633	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109634	Thank you. So, now that you've just personally characterized me what you always do when you don't have the arguments, I've remembered what else I have to tell you. Early delivery and premature termination of pregnancy are not the same and even when they occur at the same week. So, the premature termination of pregnancy within itself in all the compassionate, human and merciful societies that we hope to once become, is an integral induction of fetal death. And that's why Mirela Cavida goes to Ljubljana and that's why Mirela Cavida won't do her surgery on Petrova because they offer her an extension of her suffering and her gravely ill child.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109635	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109636	Article 238, compassionate and merciful society as you call it, is not a question of someone's interpretation but of legal regulations, and if you knew how to do your job, then you would also make sure in law that such a society is regulated legally, not that you here are pathetically calling it depending on your own interpretation of that concept which is irrelevant to the general public because it does not regulate relations in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109637	It was your replica, so you get a warning. Next replica, Andreja Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109638	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you're a doctor, I'm a doctor, my colleague was looking at me that I didn't offer professional arguments, I haven't even had a chance yet... Okay, well, come on, then I guess you were thinking about your colleague. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The other thing is, we were talking about the appeal of conscience. So, at this point in time, we're not discussing what mine, yours or I don't know whose attitude, when it begins, will conceive, right over there. So here we are talking about the law that we have offered as a legal proposal following what the Constitutional Court asked us to do. Among other things, not from the government, to address the issue of prevention, education, availability, and appeal to conscience. And we here talk about the appeal of conscience as something that fellow doctors are entitled to, but it is the duty of the state to ensure the right of pregnant women to have what the law allows. And one more thing that, I mean, both you and me is confusing me. is a rule on specialization [[Intruder: Time.]] Gynaecologist for specialists [[Intruder: Time.]] So they have to have abortions, right? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109639	Yes, thank you. So, I'm going to refer to the fact that according to the Specialization Regulation, specialists should actually learn how to perform early pregnancy interruptions during specialization. Specialization is of course related to practical work first of all, so the rest of us work in college. I'll still look back on these comments of the law. So despite the incredible knowledge and legal, and not only the medical profession presented here by Mrs Selak Rasudiæ, the obvious Slovenian legislation that has the same law as we have and we have no need for a deeper clarification of what Article 22 is almost identical and the code represents. And it's actually self-comprehensible because it doesn't need to be further medically interpreted, given that medical science is changing at a different pace than how the laws follow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109640	Next replica, the esteemed Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109641	Dear colleague Kekin, with a view to the fact that, in reality, a woman's part of the opposition has brought out the most emphasis on writing this law and the appearance of the proposal itself, which I am interested in, since it turns out that in this decision, this law gives the most opposition, have you tried to talk to the rest of the opposition and the rest of the women's opposition, and have you received any suggestions and objections, even if I am against abortion and do not bring me into this just that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109642	Thank you. When you say the rest, I suppose you mean yes, so how can I tell you that some of my first political public experiences were precisely on the subject of abortions and women's rights to choice and freedom, and already it was quite certain that under the cover of rights and struggles for life there was a very conservative agenda that we are looking at in a conservative revolution that has been going on in Croatia for the last 10 years, through the staffing of HDZ, but it also takes place through certain actions of civil society. And unfortunately, the price is paid by women, they're paying the price of it now, they're paying specifically Mirel Chavaid and they're paying it to a lot of people who talked to her today at a protest where it would be good if you'd heard these painful and horrible testimonys about what people like you afforded to your fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109643	Next is the debate on behalf of Center and GLAS Representatives Mrak Taritas and Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109644	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. The issue of abortion or medical termination of pregnancy for us is neither secular nor political, nor party issue. For us, it's a civilization issue. No one, but no one has the right to decide about the body of a woman except the woman herself. Well, it's really enough for women to have to account for anyone or anything or apologize for the decisions that concern them and their bodies. And it's quite frankly enough that every debate about abortion starts with how sensitive it is and how we'd all rather not have an abortion. Well, of course it is, so we don't have to stress it every time and actually apologize again and justify it as if any of us are being foolish, so I guess she thinks that women enjoy abortion as if it were a pleasant and beautiful experience, like she doesn't leave a scar for the rest of her life. I'm talking about a psychic scar this time, not a physical one. But enough is enough of anyone to apologize and justify themselves to anyone. A woman has the right to decide about herself and her body, not to hide under a stone while someone else says what they're going to do, those times are over and we're going to make every effort never to come back. Plenkovic, Beros, and Corusic, and certainly not any church have any less right to make decisions instead of women, to salt their minds, hold lectures and moralize them. The only thing we care about is the law that stems from the law, along with the law being implemented in reality. The Republic of Croatia is fortunate to have received a modern and good law that regulates the issue of abortion as early as the 1970s, the law remains in force and remains enforceable. Imagine, almost 45 years after it was brought. The Constitutional Court ruled more than five years ago whether the law was in accordance with our constitution or not. And imagine what the Constitutional Court has decided, yes. And it can't really be said that he didn't listen to the arguments of those who are against abortion and who, through the the thesis of lawlessness, wanted to ban or make abortions more difficult, including between them and old acquaintances who restrict someone's rights in question, so let's just say the name of a family who is very concerned about killing unborn children, but who have no problem taking pictures with the killers of children born. Well, those really won't make us feel any better. Three universities and medical experts, including wonders and academics, were also consulted by the Catholic Faculty of God and the Faculty of Law, Željko Reiner, who delivered an expert opinion to the Constitutional Court on the narrow management of the Women's Diseases and Births clinic. So I have absolutely no remorse whatsoever that someone had no right to vote in front of the constitutional court, including those who object. The Constitutional Court then said the assembly must pass a new law within two years. Those two years have seen the following wonders, three years ago. What happened? Nothing. And that's why HS has a chance to make it right today, to respect the constitutional court's decision because a state in which parliament does not respect the decision of a constitutional court of colleagues and colleagues is not exactly a state. This proposal, of course, will be supported, it touches and corrects some gaps that have, in the meantime, been in place since the current law was passed before I repeat for almost 45 years. This law was avant-garde at that time and today it still works, it needs to be complemented, modernised, and this is what the Proposer of course and did and we have such a proposal ahead of us and we are discussing it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109645	My colleagues and colleagues, it is interesting to me that this proposal of opposition MPs has been attacked as if it were populism and so far, it has been attacked by those who have reduced their entire political spectrum to the population of the worst species, and nothing better is not even those who say that this proposal is bad, that it is a simple pamphlet, not a bill, which prevents them from submitting amendments so that this law becomes better. I would also like to look back at that colleague who said that we are now paralysing on a very sensitive social subject. There is no policy-sensitive social theme because it is our job to make everything in one society sensitive at some point and solve it. Just as there is no sensitive topic for doctors, it is their job to solve sensitive problems. And this is also not something that we need to look for a social consensus, and it's obvious that this debate shows that we are and that there are very opposite sexes among us, but what we need to find, and that is a certain social agreement that will be based on some prevailing civilizational standards, which is what we have had more or less so far. Today, meetings were held in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka, Pula and other cities, so what were all these people who certainly did not wait for the tram, said they had had had enough, and what was enough, they had enough of a state that was not, a state that was fake, false because it did not respect its own laws, it was actually the essence here and what did they say? They said they were ready to go out on the streets again when they needed to because things went too far in the wrong direction so we couldn't ignore them anymore, and what went wrong, so this debate also shows. Today, we haven't really discussed nomotechnics and proposals and the content of the law itself, we've talked about it since life began, ever since life began. So as far as I'm concerned, life can start from the moment you look happy and the souls come together, but it's not the subject of this law. Well then we can also talk about what is the interest of an unborn child, we can talk about it, but neither is the subject of this law, the subject of this law is who decides whether or not that child will be born, and then appeal to conscience. No one's appeal to conscience argues, but when the state disables the abortion because all gynecologists are calling for a conscience, that means it's the state that doesn't have a conscience at all. Now that HDZ's already on its back, that means they've escaped from the assembly, they're not arguing with us here today because their existing law is good, so it's actually entertaining me, this is the only law where they don't mind those terms from the socialist self-government system, and that's where they're going to defend it to the end, and it's too bad that they don't defend and implement it. Says a HDZ man here today from the bench that it's not true that women are humiliated on gynecological tables, whoever he is to say, he's certainly never found himself in such a situation, he didn't have legs spread, and he didn't worry about his own life or his baby's life, that he wasn't ashamed of him. And why are women humiliated? Well, because this law does not exist in its implementation and practice, I will give you just a few examples, but first I will say that first we have to agree that this law says that up to 10 weeks of pregnancy of women, exclusively women, and not any woman, not mother, not mother, not daughter, but that woman who is pregnant she decides whether or not to throw up, none of us, none of us, any of the sovereigns, and after 10 weeks again is a decision on a woman, and that's what we forget only then can be rejected with certain laws of prescribed assumptions. Thank you Mirela Chavaida for finding this strength in her struggle to give us one problem or one of the three laws of the envisaged situation, and this is the situation where, based on medical indications, a child can be expected to be born with certain health problems. There's a situation that's obviously not controversial to anyone, which is when, based on medical indications, we can expect to be at risk for women, and what about the third one that's not mentioned at all, do you know which one's the third? The law says this, this law, this law that HDZ wants to preserve in force says when, for example, a woman was raped. Do we have a state that in nine months can pass a final verdict, can we theoretically imagine a situation in which any woman in the Republic of Croatia could appeal to such rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109646	Time. Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc representative Bencic and Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109647	I thank the chairman. So these days, especially for the last two weeks, I've been talking to myself, but I know I speak for hundreds of thousands of women in Croatia, I say we're angry, we're angry, we're sad. Some of you sitting here with regard to what attitudes we have on women, I know you'd say we're probably hysterical because every time we react to the injustices this society serves us daily. We're angry, we're sad, and we're angry because our lives in this country are less worth living, our lives are less worth living. Tell me, in what situation would a potential threat to a man's life decide to risk his life for example for his unborn child, in what situation? Our lives and we as persons in this country are less valuable because we are suggested, that when we decide about our body we should pass special counselling, we should be advised because we are unable to decide for ourselves what is good for us and what is bad for us even within those first 10 weeks. We should be advised not to gynecologist which is logical, because every gynecologist advises you but a psychologist because something with us is probably wrong. That's an assumption in this country, that's an assumption. We're angry and angry, and we're sad when you tell us that maybe the law should change and in the direction that when we decide on an abortion that our husbands should co-determine, maybe even a wider family, maybe some of us should do so that they decide what to do with me. These are suggestions coming from this spectrum. So, we're sad and angry and angry because you call us unethical, because you made Mirel Cavid in your statements, and Minister Beros also declared potential children murderers. His statement of what would have just happened if she had gone to Slovenia and that someone could have succumbed to criminal persecution was a pure threat with this hidden message, with this hidden message to a woman who is in the most difficult situation in which any of us can find ourselves in life. We are angry and angry and sad because we are told that as women, we are obliged to suffer because it is an idea. It's an idea. The idea is that Mirela Cavida was to be patient, to do this pregnancy from the end, to go through all the psychological and physical pain and to afford the same kind of suffering now unborn, and then to a potentially born child is that the idea that women can and must suffer and that the state should not help them. And we're sad and angry and angry because we're being told why they didn't use contraception. How many of you, how many of you dear fellow male advocates in your marriages and relationships, how many of you are responsible for contraception, how much do you care about contraception, how many of you are paying for contraception, how many of you are paying for your checks? No, I don't want to know at all. I don't want to know because I know what the results are, what the results would be, and I know what the results are on the sample in Croatia. And then when you're a woman, you can't afford birth control because now you're looking out for us and the pharmacists have a conscience complaint. So if you're on an island, you're going to a pharmacy where a pharmacist has an objection to conscience you can't buy those birth control pills. And so we're angry and angry because, among other things, all the other medical services that are for women and for women's diseases are sub-disciplined. The ultrasound for the breast is one of the rarest and most difficult searches available in Croatia and that is why we are angry and angry because we are treated as being less valuable persons in this society. And we won't be that again and that's why we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109648	Thank you. We're going to talk a little bit more about the absurdities we've been conscious of these past few days, but many of us have been aware of that for a long time. So 80% of citizens are for freedom of choice, and 60% of gynecologists are against it. Then we wouldn't have been as much of a prevention as we mentioned, but we don't give an early termination of pregnancy when it happens to a girl in need. There's no law for two years even though it's the Constitutional Court, not now it's not two, now it's five, but now we're discussing it at 8:00 p.m. it's starting the debate until 4:00 a.m. That's how women are appreciated. It is absurd to say that women are being paid into the health system, and when they need a health care system, they are being put to rest or sent to Slovenia. It is absurd to pay in this health system when we need an early termination of pregnancy, then depending on what city we live in we pay the price, so as in Dubrovnik a small macchiato is more expensive, so is abortion more expensive. It is absurd that the prime minister has no slight relationship, but his colleague Mrak Taritash must teach him that the premature termination of pregnancy is not available in many hospitals in Croatia, and it is even more absurd that Minister Beros claims it is not true and that it is absolutely available. Yes, yes, it's available across the border in Brežice, it's available there. It is absurd that the health minister directly calls for a violation of the law. It is absurd to do so through his pair of committees that he founded without foundation and without authority. It is absurd that he advocates breaking the law by referring to the profession, and the profession is presented to him by a man who I repeat thinks that the Zigots are sacrificed brothers and sisters. It's absurd to call on the profession now and to all those who have spit on us for the last two years. It is absurd that it is necessary to have an enormous, enormous engagement of the media and the public in order for the minister to recalibrate after a few days and confess and speak quite the opposite of what he said on Friday and admits that Mrs. Chavaida has the right to terminate her pregnancy. It is absurd for the minister to recognise that the law guarantees her that right, but also for the minister to say that in Croatia the right cannot be realised. It's absurd that our fellow citizen, Mirelli, has not been told by the committee, but by the minister through the media. And the most absurd thing about this situation is that in 2022, we're trying to get the ruling law in 1978. So for what our grandparents and our mothers meant, we have to fight. And the logical question that arises, if you stay in power waiting for our daughters, what awaits our grandchildren? So, the only thing I can say here is tomorrow's vote I call on coalition partners, and some of them understand how serious this is, to call on the only one, the only real call of conscience at this hour and to vote for the disbanding of this government, which, on its fellow citizens, violates the law. No, no, we vote tomorrow, we vote tomorrow. It's time for HDZ to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109649	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109650	Article 238, insult and demeaning of MPs has been injured. My colleagues, Bencic and my colleagues, Kekin, cannot believe that in the 21st century, in 2022, you say such patriarchal and medieval statements in parliament that only women can be pregnant and give birth to which you deny the possibility of men being pregnant and giving birth to which you show that you are not at all natively fluid and that you go counter-green and left-wing policies in Europe that recognise over 60... [[Intruder: Time.]] a time [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and men's ability to give birth and be... [[Intruder: Time.]] I'll quote the coat of arms, shame may be yours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]] You are ashamed of anything you deny to men the possibility [[Intruder: Time.]] to be pregnant and to be born like yours... [[Intruder: You get a warning, first warning.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109651	It was a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and you used and abused you get a warning. Marijan Pavliček, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109652	The violation of Rules of Procedure in 238, a colleague Bencic said a number of false things, insulted parliamentary deputies, said our life is less valuable, a woman's life, so where it says so, in which the law says that your life is less valuable. If I were to listen to you today, I'd say we live in the 15th century and women end up at the stake here on Mark's square. That's how it works out for you. That's how it turns out today by your story. And today they also said that 90% of the people in Croatia are behind you. So if 90% of the people behind you today would be 100,000 people on, down in Bana Jelačić Square. Not the miserable 5,000. [[Intruder: Time.]] So much for how many people are behind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109653	Time. And you've abused the Rules of Procedure, you're being warned. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109654	Article 238, I want to visit a progressive opposition that when we talk about embryos, and it bothers them that men decide that and what they will be with them is a progressive SDP in the law decides both men and women. And of course I have to express solidarity and support here for the unexpected proposal to be considered by my colleague, Sandra Bencic, who talked about establishing a registry of men using contraception in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109655	And you used this as a replica, you get a warning. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109656	And once again, good evening, so well-proposed by what Mr. Rasdic has now said, Nino, stay, listen to this, please. Offered by the fact that a colleague had now spoken, and additionally, supported by the research that we were doing when we were preparing for discussion, I read the proposal of the Irish law which was recently written and one of the objections to that law was that the language of the law was not, is not born sensitive i.e. that only women are mentioned, not pregnant people. Well, I sincerely hope that we'll please our colleague Rasputi and that we'll go to another reading so that we can change the expression of this law from pregnant women to pregnant people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109657	We have two replicas, the first respected Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109658	Dear fellow Members, would you or would we be discussing here today and would you last week have collected enough signatures and gone at all if it wasn't for this accident of Chavayed, or are you still using all of this for daily political purposes?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109659	You kind of don't want to hear what we've told you several times. The law was written for the first time in 2019, then re-puted in the procedure in December 2020 until it was known at all about the case of Cavida. And the first to mention this woman here, it's not us who proposed the law, but you keep pulling her out and literally raping her name. It is not the law at all, it is not the subject of amending this law, the case of Mirela Cavide, the subject of the amendment of this law, are all women in Croatia and their rights. Read what we wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109660	Next replica, the esteemed Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109661	The church has always considered abortion evil, but early abortion no, though I was just saying that. 40 days and 5-6 weeks, 12th century Tom Aquinsky I see these HDZ's who have now appeared wonders. Yeah, evil, but no abortion. Then it changes. The church is incredibly capable of adapting to the current situation, and now it's science. Remember, or the case of solidarity, so Pope John Paul II comes. So it changed, and Benedict came to be surrounded by jewels, and then the recession came with the wooden staff of Pope Francis. Many should learn from the Church and from our social agreement. This is it, ma'am. Glamuzine, a great law, I suggest that there go a package of reproductive laws, this law is 40 years old and the law that we have passed, i.e. I proposed and adopted in '12. is the new law on medically assisted fertilisation because science has moved on. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109662	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109663	My colleague Ostojić, I am genuinely very little interested in what the Church thinks about this. This is a secular state, and in this country the laws are passed by HS, not the Catholic Church, not the Muslim or any other. I respect that there are colleagues who are believers and non-believers, everyone has the right to their own opinion, but the opinion religiously founded is neither the subject nor the decision factor, as we have seen, nor the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, nor should it be a factor in the decision-making of the law of the HS and of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109664	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, the respected representative of Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109665	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS estimates that this proposal addresses a particular issue in accordance with the Court’s order and guidelines of 2017, in particular, this proposal addresses the issues referred to in paragraph 50 of the Constitutional Court’s decision, i.e. the issue of the costs of termination of pregnancy, education and calls on the conscience of doctors who do not wish to terminate pregnancy. The issue calls on the conscience of healthcare professionals for us in HSLS is one of the fundamental issues that we consider necessary to regulate the new law. It is not disputed that this right calls for the conscience of doctors, nurses and pharmacists based on positive regulations. However, it is also undeniable that the exercise of that right excludes the right of women to terminate pregnancy, as foreseen by the law on whose amendments we are discussing today, but also the general right to the sense of patient protection. Therefore, there is currently an unsustainable legal situation in which there are two mutually opposed rights of the same legal rank. This is an inadmissible and unsustainable situation that needs immediate change. We welcome the introduction of public health institutions and pharmacists' obligations to ensure employees who can professionally assist women in the exercise of their law of recognised rights, which relate to the termination of pregnancy and contraception. In particular, the establishment of clear legal conditions for the exercise of these rights guaranteed the achievement of personal autonomy and the right to private life and the freedom of their autonomous planning. The relationship between the two equal rights, constitutional rights of women to freedom and privacy, on the one hand, and the constitutional value of unborn human life established by the Constitutional Law in paragraph 45 of its solution shall be governed by this proposal of the law in a manner which is in accordance with both the positions of the Constitutional Court and the positions of the European courts and of the European courts, which shall be the conclusion referred to in point 45, that the unborn being shall enjoy constitutional protection in the sense of Article 45 as constitutionally protected value. 21 The constitution only to the extent that it does not conflict with the right of women. The right to live an unborn being in this sense is not protected so that it has an advantage or greater protection than the right of women. Therefore, in the legislation i.e. The HS is to prescribe procedures and deadlines for cases in which a woman decides to terminate pregnancy, for the purposes of a restrictive protection of those mutually opposed rights and interests and values. This issue in this proposal is regulated in a way in which the conditions for termination of pregnancy prescribed by the previous law are significantly taken over. A significant change relates to the extension of the current period for permitted termination of pregnancy from 10 to 12 weeks in accordance with the average duration of that period in other European countries. We support such a proposal because we assess it positively from the point of view of accepting Europe's increasingly liberal standarts in this area, as well as from the point of view of expanding the scope of women's rights and freedom in terms of their autonomy and privacy. The HSLS therefore assesses positive and significant 3 legislative changes. This is proposed to ensure the right to terminate pregnancy, extend that right to women with disabilities and extend the deadline for sufficient interruption. Such a legislative solution is in line with our liberal understandings, and in that part of this proposal has our support. On the other hand, we have a dubious assessment of the orderly termination of the pregnancy of minors, without the consent of parents or other legal counsel in the event of a voluntary termination of pregnancy. The proposal and this aspect explain standards and practices in other EU Member States, however, it should be pointed out that this argument is not entirely correct. For example, the applicants are calling for the case of Austria, but the circumstances are ignored that despite the principle of non-compliance of parents and guardians, they are nevertheless mainly required under another regulation governing the work of public health institutions. In addition, the call for France, for example, only partially supports the proposed solution because, despite the principle of non-compliance of parents or guardians, it prescribes mandatory counselling of minors in several stages of the pregnancy termination process and the escorting of a minor according to the selection of the minor concerned. Namely, the legal relevant expression of the will of minors is linked to the legal arrangement of their business capacity. Austria also recognises the business capacity of persons over 16 years of age with regard to their active voting rights, while Belgium also recognises it, but still within a limited scope, i.e. with regard to certain levels of decision-making. In a particularly liberal Netherlands, despite the principle of responsibilities and consent of parents or guardians for the termination of the pregnancy of a minor over 16 years of age, she is still wanted if the doctor suspects the business capacity of the person concerned. In other words, we consider an irresponsible solution to the introduction of absolute, i.e. an unlimited right of a minor to voluntary termination of pregnancy. On the other hand, in any case, we support and welcome the direction of increasing the rights and freedom of minors, but we suggest that she be reasonable and proportionately limited in terms of pregnancy interruptions because in this respect we adhere to European standards, and yet they are not as they are shown by the promoter but rather more rational and much more responsible. HSLS assesses the unacceptable and proposed model of funding for pregnancy interruptions and contraception other than the financing of medically justified or indicated pregnancy interruptions and the financing of other cases of pregnancy interruptions and contraception should be limited to certain groups and categories of users. The proposed principle unlimited free contraception is also financially unsustainable and harmful because it will primarily lead to a producer's profits on the expense of taxpayers. The proposed flat-rate and unlimited funding is contrary to the purpose of health care provided in medically justified cases. Available and accessible healthcare is not achieved by increasing its costs and consequently its inaccessibility to those who really need it, with particular freedom they must also be linked to personal responsibility for their own actions. A woman who decides to stop pregnancy if he is banned or not available would put her health and life at risk, including a new pregnancy in other circumstances, which is actually totally unacceptable. It's a tragic case and a sad case of Mrs. Devereaux. It's not about the right to interrupt pregnancy, it's about the sad story of the ineffectiveness of the health system and the non-implementation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109666	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109667	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Klasic, I listened to your debate, but I still don't understand your position. You've talked about everything, but you haven't expressed what we as politicians who got some kind of trust from citizens should be here, which is to express some kind of a damn attitude. I'm giving you a chance, replicate me, thank you and tell me your attitude, that's first. Secondly, as a liberal, you should advocate liberal solutions. If we go to freedom, even if it's freedom for minors, then it's something that liberals should support. It is quite clear to me, and it is with the liberal doctrine that you are against the fact that any health care service is being paid out of public funds, and we will never agree, as I will not agree with some of your colleagues from a Croatian portal of allegedly liberal values that have defended the work of minors, so I find it interesting that a request is coming from the liberal side that minors can be exploited as practically slave labour throughout the world, and that at the same time here in Croatia we will not give them the opportunity to decide about their body instead, and here we are talking first of all about those minors who are 16 years old, but we will ask parents to decide, that parents do not so. But hopefully, I can see that you're replicating me, that we're finally going to hear your attitude, but what's important to me is that after listening here for four hours and following this debate closely. Three worlds conflict here, three worlds. A colleague named Bauk used to say two, but he's wrong, three. One who is for women's right to choose, which is what I belong, the other who absolutely wishes to deny it, and will lie, cheat, invent, give all sorts of disastrous and criminal comparisons, but will never at any time have the courage to come and say we are for banning abortions and we are for women to have no choice. They're huge cowards, but huge cowards are even bigger, and they're the ones who chose to have no attitude for their worldview and hope this goes away, that this story will go away, that this story will only last as long as the public's interest in a particular case that will be publicly exposed, even if it's the case of a family tragedy or a story about a court decision on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, but colleagues and colleagues won't, they won't. As the right woman out loud did not cease when women around the world were repeatedly rejected so that the right of women to choose will not go away as the story until the moment it is fully realized, until that moment, and that moment will come. And you can say that you have no attitude not to touch the existing law, perhaps not to touch it, but in the most insidious, most insidious way you try to pass the lights of the public, past the HS and past the one who is authorized by the constitution and in charge of regulating relations within our society, which is Parliament, various committees, changing the content of the law, and that dear gentlemen will not pass because every time you try to do so, you will encounter the misery of those who will say enough, the misery of those who will say enough and get up and not this story will not go away, not this story will end for one moment, and that moment is the right to choose will become the sacred right of the Croatian Constitution and Croatian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109668	We've got replicas, the first one's a respected Marijan Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109669	Dear Comrade Grbin, here I will stick to your bill, why do you think that girls 16, 17 and 18 can decide for themselves whether to end pregnancy, while these same girls have no right to vote, and the same girls do not have the ability to drive motor vehicles in this country, why they think they are so mature that they can decide for themselves to end the pregnancy or murder of an unborn child? [[Intruder coat of arms: About termination of pregnancy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109670	It's about the termination of the pregnancy. Not my opinion, opinion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, opinion of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, opinion of the Law on Pregnant Pregnancy, Opinion of the Family Law, opinion of the Croatian courts, etc. It's not murder. And you can either lie around or you can like some of them who are no longer painted here with war criminals responsible for the murder of 116 victims in Ahmic, and at the same time talk about the protection of life. It's a two-faced thing. But I will answer you, personally, I think that we should lower the age limit for voting and work on it, that I think we should and that I think that a girl at 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 can measure whether or not she should be interrupted pregnancy or not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109671	Next replica of the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109672	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleague of the coat of honor. What you're interested in is what attitude the Reformist and HSLS Club is about to take, but given that your colleague Klasic gave you a replica, I hope we'll hear about it before tomorrow is tomorrow when the vote will be tomorrow, or tomorrow is tomorrow, then we'll have a chance to see how it will vote. If you are a member of a liberal party and you are committed to liberal values, then the first of the values are values of human rights, the values of choice are one of the fundamental values that you do not sell, if necessary, you do not advocate certain things but clearly say. A clear attitude of pain, a clear vote of pain. It's not every time, but if you did, then you're not just in the media and on paper, you're in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109673	Thank you, colleagues, I apologize. You must give me your word. Thank you. Thank you, too, colleague Dark Taritash and I hope to hear that attitude in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109674	Next replica, respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109675	Dear fellow coat of arms. Andrej Plenkovic, when becoming HDZ president and afterwards, said that changing the party would change Croatia and thus show why he was called one of the best Brussels students. But from the vastness of Europe and the great citizenship in the Republic of Croatia, we see that slowly but certainly there is absolutely nothing left and that all of this together melts like ice in this sun that we had today. Is there just a lack of courage, a lack of energy, or are we simply coming to a decline because of the suspicion of a number of corruption affairs that are linked to this government? And the second question, just to improve what counterpart Mrak Taritash said, why does HSLS, Reformists and SDSS who like to swear on their citizenship in their protection of minorities in their protection of human rights on this subject absolutely and unsuspectingly remain silent?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. I was never a special fan of Karamark, but when I compare him and Plenkovic, then I must really say that Karamarko at least had that basic human courage or human dignity to speak openly about what he's doing and what he's doing and when I look at Plenkovic's actions compared to Karamarko I remember a legendary movie and a sentence from him, and it says about like this, sometimes when you see him you know who he is, today as soon as you see him, you don't know who he is, so it seems like there are more. And as for this second part of your replica, I'll tell you the same as my colleague Taritash, here's only a few seconds before we hear the answer of my colleague Klasic, but as far as the SDSS is concerned, I still have to correct you from the replicas given by my colleague, Jeck, I think I can sense their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109677	Next replica, respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109678	Thank you very much. I think that here we are in this reference directly to this law and that our position is more than clear which stands in the right to defend women. I am sorry that you who are part of the government in the City of Zagreb did not do this in particular. As you know, the city hospital is in a coalition where you manage not to give the lady a single answer and an early termination of pregnancy is carried out in state institutions in the city of Zagreb that are owned by the state of KBC Rebro, the Sisters of Mercy and unfortunately in St. The spirit is not under direct management of the city of Zagreb. It's about principle. As far as the answer is concerned, I think our answer was more than clear and that we are on track and liberal policies... Well, here it is I said I didn't hear from what we referred to or your answers to the objections we had on this bill. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What I find pronounced [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109679	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've made it very clear to you how I feel about the rights of a girl of 16 or more years, that I think everyone in the hall understood me unlike you where we don't even know now whether you're going to vote for the law or you're going to vote against it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, as you have the right to speak your mind, so do I, and hold on to it, and I have the right to ask for an answer, and a colleague does not have to give it anything as you do not have to declare what I am talking about, but you will not silence me like you did last week. As far as this holy spirit is concerned, I must agree with you here. Yes, it is truly unacceptable that there are any hospitals in the Republic of Croatia of any founder in which this type of protection of women is not provided, and based on the statements of the mayor of Zagreb, I am convinced that this problem in the Holy Spirit hospital will soon be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109681	On behalf of SDSS MP Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109682	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we entered Friday and I would like to say that the issue of termination of pregnancy, i.e. the abortion, was a taboo topic until recently, a topic which was avoided when possible and as much as possible. Then we all got hit by a slap on the Mirela Chawide case and showed us a situation that could happen to any one of us. And yes, all of us women, our daughters need to be grateful that she slapped us so hard and made us aware that the law is not being implemented. We should be grateful to her because she made it impossible for us to put another problem under the carpet. We owe it to this woman on civil courage, an exceptional contribution, detecting the devastatingly weak points of the public health system in the area of reproductive health from the fundamental right to health care and the right to choose through the right to information and effective administration, the right to protect dignity and integrity of a person. The Mirela Cavide case put us in front of an alarming insight into the current situation we are witnessing, which is that the current legal framework is not being implemented in practice. This especially affects women who are on the sidelines, women in all villages and our towns, on our islands without gynecologist in a 100 km radius, women who suffer from convictions in local communities, where, for example, a single pharmacist does not issue birth control pills and women workers who cannot afford to pay for private medical services, i.e. regular gynaecological examinations. We need urgent measures to protect women's reproductive rights with a focus on the accessibility of the medical procedure to stop pregnancy and prevent the violation of women's constitutional rights. I will briefly count these emergency measures, with regard to the implementation of inspection supervision of healthcare institutions authorised to protect reproductive health, including data on the overall spectrum of medical procedures related to pregnancy discontinuation. The establishment of a medical staff register in public and private health institutions with a declaration of conscience which will be made available to the public regularly with information on the professional and management positions of each said person. Transparency is the way to trust in the health system, and I believe that, regardless of the worldview, it is in the interest that our fellow citizens come to the hospital with confidence, that they will get the health care they need because they are guaranteed by the Constitution. This means that every public health institution must provide a fit that is educated and ready to conduct elective terminations within 10 weeks without any pressure, and after ten weeks in cases of prescribed law. Patients are directed to their rights and ability, and to provide adequate health care and psychological assistance. The evaluation and revision of the Commission's decision-making system for termination of pregnancy after 10 weeks in the light of Slovenian practices based on identical legal solutions and a broader institutional framework. The very fact that 200 of our fellow citizens are looking for annual health care in Slovenia, and not in their own country, should become increasingly concerned and ashamed of us. It is a shameful fact that due to the inability to receive adequate medical care during the abortion, and before the pandemic in 2019 is 428 women who crossed the border and interrupted pregnancy in Brežice. Advocating health care for women is a question of our civic, our political responsibilities, as well as patriotism. Because we don't want our country to be ashamed of itself regardless of the world's view and religious beliefs, because I repeat this is a matter of achieving constitutional rights to health care in the area of reproductive health, in accordance with the constitutional right to determine and choose each woman's own choice. It is extremely important to train all regional hospital centres to provide all medical procedures related to termination of pregnancy. This specifically means that you need to invest in additional specialist training of doctors and doctors, other medical staff in capacitating departments with adequate diagnostic equipment wherever it is necessary to employ additional medical staff. Why? Well, because young doctors and doctors have nowhere to learn this procedure from no one, because 60% of our doctors are calling for a conscience call. In such a troubled health care, it is no wonder that Chavaida is forced to go across the border like many other women before her. Something currently on a valid law that regulates this issue and dates back to '78. A year. The law allowed family planning alone, and it guaranteed women abortion as a health care service. Many in the year of production see the problem in part they can agree the law had to if for nothing else, then due to the flow of time certainly to be refreshed. But then we see that in Slovenia, the same regulation is said to have been a good basis for developing democratic practice of ending pregnancy. The Constitutional Court's decision makes it clear that the existing law in force is in line with our 1990s Constitution. Something about the appeal of conscience, something the doctors themselves said, which is that this appeal to their conscience has caused them a lot of trouble. Those who did not call for a conscience suffer because of those colleagues who did. One doctor said the following: A couple of us at the hospital who did not call for an appeal of conscience must do all abortions. We don't want to, but there's no one else. We are victims of other people's call to conscience. It happens to be all we do, just abortions. For this reason, we in the SDSS, colleague Jaksic, are in favour of comprehensive sexual education, contraception, free access to safe abortion, and the protection of women's reproductive rights. Once again in thanks to Mrs. Cavidi for her courage and with great compassion for all the suffering she suffers with the sincere desire that neither of us will feel it, that in our country at the most difficult moments of her life marked by the suffering, pain and fear of the system she will leave alone or worse send to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109683	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109684	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit I'm disappointed, but here's what my colleague said here on a few occasions, we're sad, we're angry, we're angry. And I'd be furious with making a bill like this myself. I think it's so many parties that we should have made a much better, much more serious, much more high-quality bill, that we can all take it together. Such an unspeakable law, and you said it yourself, Mr. Grbin said and begged Mrs. Voter to go to another reading, so it's not good, right, that it's not entirely consistent. You said it yourself and you agreed and a few MPs signed that they wanted to go to another reading. But unfortunately he's so flawed that he can't go into another reading, this requires a much, much more serious approach to get rid of everything the Constitutional Court has predicted that needs to be solved. But most importantly, what's very important to me, don't drag the thesis of having someone end a real woman. No one's real wife is being abolished. By not accepting this bill, which is not well done, it is not good quality, it has not worked out everything. And what didn't he do? He did not do what was most important, and not only did he not have the goal of helping women, but he had a strong desire to make polarize, to exploit an unhappy woman, and many in the debate use it that he has his own problem not with the normal Law on abortion, but he has a problem because he has a fetus that is already 27 weeks old, which can be born. And that's why it's a problem not because it's not there. He's entitled to an abortion, each, but up to 10 weeks, but this is something else. This isn't an abortion. Don't mix it up, why create a picture like that. So you're saying wrong, no one's against it. No one's ending a real woman. We've got the law. It's not perfect. 44 is old, but obviously if neither SDP has changed it yet, if it has not changed it nor HDZ means that it has not threatened women so far and no one has made a problem except for the first time now or for one problem, because of a difficult condition that a lady will have to deal with. So she could solve it in another way in Croatia, but she doesn't want to, but she's going to do it in Slovenia not because she can't, but because she doesn't want to do it in this way how the health system in Croatia can do it by law. In addition to liberalising the pregnancy termination process that suggests this law, although the one we have is also liberal, the problem of potentially interrupting late-aged pregnancy is not addressed exactly what the problem is. It's exactly what we all expected, that he's about to handle this. If this triggered, if this was a trigger, then in this law you should have just worked out what needs to be solved in late pregnancy, how to legally solve as much quality as possible. Now we have that law, so with commissions. Maybe he wasn't well-worked enough, maybe he needed it... I expected you to work it out, to make a better proposal there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law of yours, i.e. the bill of law, does not consider the physical or psychological consequences caused by abortion in both women and, of course, by a doctor who has to do so especially in different periods, is it thus a gestational age. This proposal does not give serious guidance for educational and preventive measures, which is what the Constitutional Court highlighted, which I think is very important and what we must do. I'd like to use the consensus to solve it. Let's get rid of all educational, preventive measures. Let us help all young women, children from primary schools through health education to have wise, smart persons, both male and female. Well, I'm convinced now that I'd ask maybe even here in this room that half the men don't know that he's a sex person, not a woman, and a lot of people are mad at women when they're born a few I don't know about women. What? ... Okay, that's just stressed, but not enough. [[You can't hear it.]] So a lot of people don't know that. It's actually a sign that we're not educated, that's why you need to do a smart education program, and of course what's particularly important is a few more things there are that are not even in line with the mandatory health insurance law in the part of paying for the costs of pregnancy, sterilization or temporary contraception. The compulsory health insurance shall not cover the costs of health care upon request of the insured person and shall cover only the costs of medically prescribed pregnancy interruption. And if someone wants to end their pregnancy to be healthy, a healthy person and a healthy child, why would the health care system pay for it? Why would everyone pay for it? If someone who is pregnant, healthy, normal means both a person and a child and needs someone to pay him a pregnancy break. I don't think we have any, there's no basis for that. Also, the bill provides for additional financial resources... states the number of sources these funds provide or have been provided in the national budget for 2020, as well as in the '22s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, with the aim of finding the best legal solution, it is necessary to ensure a multidisciplinary approach to preparing the text and implementing a broad public debate involving representatives, both the professional public and all interested citizens. That should also be done, let's all do it together when we're doing a real serious bill. I believe that a legislative proposal regulating such complex matter should be referred to a regular legislative procedure in order to contribute to the quality of this legal solution in two readings and through a parliamentary debate. On the other hand, I would just like to look back on this often mentioned appeal to the doctor’s conscience. We as doctors who took Hippocratic's oath I don't know if you know, Hippocrates is still 450 years before Jesus was born, so 2450 years ago he said he'd never give his wife any means of abortion, he said he'd never give poison to a person to kill him. So he was already against euthanasia, then he was before.../incomprehensible/... 2500 thousand years against abortion. So the media profession isn't on our base, in our learning to kill anyone. So our learning is to prevent, to diagnose, to heal, to save lives, to extend life. I say it like this now just in principle, you know, don't just protect the doctors, don't, don't crucify them because they have a conscience call. Someone,.../incomprehensible/... is likely to find people who don't and of course they have in every part of the country and there are hospitals where they're concerned and of course doctors who don't want to do it. For what reason, if you'd stick to it strictly... No doctor should ever do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's out of that oath, and it's not what's going on anymore because in modern times something has to be made possible. And so you don't think it means that we are for any lifting of women's rights, however, so this law that we have, which is 44 years old, we have to do it, we have to change what the Constitutional Court has made with its own solution, but these are changes that are not crucial to the safety of women, or for the rights of women that she has now had. And that's why the HDZ Club can't accept this bill, but we have to make it a whole new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109685	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109686	Here, dear colleague, I'll call for an article. 238 and earn a warning because this is going to be a replica, and I'm already speaking in advance, and I refer to when you say, when you, here, have declared this bill, it's not quality, it's not all covered, it's a disastrous proposal, it's not appropriate, it's so much better to do it, I'm just going to ask you, so what are you waiting for 5 years? So why didn't you make a better proposal today? Eternity is before you, Hajduk only lives forever. HDZ, is not HR does not mean HDZ He lives forever than Heiduk lives forever. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109687	Time As you said, you'll get a warning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Now, on behalf of the chairman, I hereby declare a 10 minute break. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-12-0.u109688	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there goes colleague Karlic. ... Well, I can talk while it's a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can't believe it. So I've got Carlic. That's the guy I wanted to catch. It's 10:00, 18 o'clock.
