ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u102738	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Based on an article. 247. I propose that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: -A report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2020. -A report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2021. If there are no objections to those points, we will conduct a united debate. As far as I can tell there are no objections, then we can agree on a united debate. Thank you and continue with what was announced yesterday Let's move on, the next statement of view is that of the distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u102771	Ladies and gentlemen, oil prices create huge problems for Croatian citizens. It is clear that Croatian citizens are victims of high prices of gasoline and diesel, but who are the profits. In addition to oil dealers, huge profits are made by the state budget because 25% of VAT per 14 kuna is significantly more than 8 kuna. So there is no doubt that the Croatian government is profiting from the difficulties of Croatian citizens. But the key question we have to ask ourselves is how does the government spend that money? Sadly, the following examples prove all the harm that today’s government has done, as well as those in the last 15 years. The other day we learned that Croatian health care has paid 880 million kuna to Medikol for using 5 CT machines in the past few years. 4 Such apparatus, used by Medikol, would cost 60 million kuna, and in 2021 alone, the HZZO paid Medikol 68 million kuna. Indeed, this information leaves a reasonable person speechless. Such harmful behavior is inadmissible. This is no longer corruption, this is an eyeless thief. Indeed, if we were to manage our finances in our private lives in this way, there is no family that would not fail, and Croatian health care is indeed in general decay. As hundreds of millions of kunas are scattered to Croatian citizens, health care has been suspended in real everyday life. So one mother writes to me that for the usual specialist examination of the otorinolaringologist for her 12-year-old son, she was given a term for a year, and for one of the most common prescription drugs, she had to pay 50 kuna. These examples prove the dramatic state of the health system in Croatia, but it should be made clear that the state of health also has that narrow group that earns enormous wealth and that in the plight of Croatian citizens. The case of amounts paid to Medikol is one such case in which the health system enables single income for individuals, but to the detriment of Croatian citizens. We are witnessing an incredible expansion of private health while our public health is falling apart at the same time. The doctors are also leaving our country. We speak not only because of low wages but primarily because of the general disorder and nepotism that exists in Croatian health care. Let's just remember the cases of a wine hospital and a replaced deputy director who presented concrete figures and facts about corruption in that hospital. After all the claims made by the lady concerned, she either had to answer for slander or had to answer for corruption. But nothing happened. It's a medical condition. It speaks of an open violation of the law, open corruption and silence of the system. Let's go back to the initial fact, i.e. to collect high taxes and how these Croatian citizens' money is spent. As taxes are spent against the interests of those who pay those taxes, so the property of Croatian citizens is given literally into invaluableness. From concessions for water and concessions for the best parts of the Adriatic, such as the Kukari project to the fee for the telecommunications routes. People from the system informed me that state-owned companies such as the Croatian Forests, Waters and Roads even though they have both the right and the obligation to charge the HT no compensation for the right way. Ladies and gentlemen, persons acting the most important duties in Croatia from Milanovic, Plenkovic, Jandrokovic to Boris Vujčić and others act arrogantly and without any scruples. These structures openly demonstrate that they are above the law and that they are not interested in the life problems of Croatian citizens at all. They're citizens of an ATM that they can use as they please. But this very behavior shows that the ruling powers are superficial and that history has taught them nothing because history teaches us that every injustice comes to an end and that at some point they have to account for their actions. That is why I am telling Croatian citizens not to lose hope for the better tomorrow, because the time of billing will come very soon, and then the current powers will have to be responsible for their abuses, and Croatian citizens will start living more dignifiedly and naturally more carefreely and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u102772	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u102914	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Anamarija Blažević will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u102915	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, since yesterday 25 May, it has been possible to submit project proposals Wish for a Women's Employment Programme Phase 3. The call was issued on 11 May 2022 and is a continuation of the financing of employment activities of more employable women in support and support jobs for older and powerless persons and activities that have proved to be very successful and irreparable in local communities through previous implementation. Due to the positive experiences of end-users and target groups, i.e. Unemployed women within the previous two phases of Desires were also eagerly expected to continue. Although the programme was originally designed as a program that would help harder employive women, it has proved to be of paramount importance and to those whom these women care about or whom they help. The "Wish" programme is the biggest project of the European Social Fund in Croatia, but it is also its core because it includes all three basic priorities of employment, social inclusion and education. Three pillars that allow quality and inclusive life in the community. So far, a total of 746 projects totalling 1.8 billion kuna have been financed from both calls phases of Zaželi from December 2017 to July 2021. Through the projects, more than 14000 women have been contracted to provide support and support for nearly 79,000 old and powerless persons, and 183 projects are still being implemented with the planned completion by January 2023. By county, I would single out Osijek-Baranja County with 121 agreed projects with more than 335 million kuna of grants, 2643 employees of women, 14225 end-users. As well as Vukovar-Srijem County with 71 contracted projects, more than EUR 208 million of the assets employed by 1789 women, and almost 10,000 users, but Split-Dalmatia County which also carried out 71 projects employed by 1513 women and 8084 end-users. This suggests that the programme is implemented throughout the Republic of Croatia and that it is very necessary throughout our area. In the context of phase three, about 200 projects were planned to cover about 4,000 women and 24000 old and powerless persons, taking into account the planned financial envelope. The launch of this call, or its third phase of impatience, is welcomed in all local communities, both in the project's contractors and in women who care about the elderly and the powerless, as well as in the users. Older and powerless persons are one of the most vulnerable groups in society and are at high risk of poverty and social exclusion. The study on research on health, aging and retirement in Europe has shown that 77,000 elderly people in Croatia have difficulty in performing daily activities and have no one to help. In addition, the last two years have marked a pandemic that has significantly affected the lives of the elderly population with an increased risk of social exclusion. This is why it is extremely important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible to continue the transitional period of funding of the Zaželi programme. Women who were employed on it also got an opportunity for additional education and education, which significantly improved their position on the labour market and the chances for other employment after the project was completed. The financial allocation for this stage is about 200 million kuna. The estimated duration is 8 months. In line with the prescribed period of acceptance of expenditure under the European Social Fund, which runs until the end of 2023, and in order to ensure transitional sickness until the adoption of the new European Social Fund programme plus. We look forward to everything at local level and we are pleased that the Zaželi programme continues, and I will only mention that the initial proposal for a new period of 2021 to 2027 is 130m euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103005	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103006	With this free speech, I welcome all seniors who are celebrating their last high school days these days. I wish them a happy future, and I hope they can make it here. However, I'm afraid many of them who are seniors today will be emigrants tomorrow. To them, and to everyone else, I need to make an apology. We who are now mature, grown up working and intellectually capable people, whether we are politically active or we are the others who are polluted with politics, we have all failed. Obviously, we have failed to shape Croatia into a country worthy of their youth and their dreams. Unfortunately, Croatia is today a country in which murky, compromised business people who are close to the authorities can acquire a fantastic wealth overnight and become ministers afterwards. Croatia is today a country where ministers who are supposed to be subject to serious corruption investigations instead of being escorted into custody become vice governors. Croatia is a country where the government became a flow water heater, is permanently reconstructed because no ministerial chair has remained clean and from corruption unsullied. Croatia is simply not a country of healthy terms. She's not healthy because we're not able to make it clear what she is, so things and phenomena call her a real name. In the way we evaluate numerous events in public, as we comment on them, as we speak, we have turned Croatia into a country where she said goodbye to her mind. That's why dear graduates, this older generation, our generation, my generation, is guilty and hard for us to do without your help can Croatia and then make the world a better place. That's why I'm saddened by news like this merciless event at an industrial and craftsman's school in Slavonski Brod. I repeat, it is not your fault, many others are guilty, and so are many who sit in this Croatian Chamber because there have been many similar greetings and iconography in a public space which politics has not condemned. A lot of evil things, an evil thing tolerates, so I want to tell you that what looks like a fascist greeting, what sounds like a Nazi greeting, what it has for its purpose is to create the atmosphere of the constitution, of Nazism, of fascism. It's exactly the kind of world, and I don't want to see you in a world like this, it's a world of destruction and death, and I want your life in happiness, in creation, in tolerance. That's why I ask you to be better than cowardice, than hypocrisy, from ignorance and superficiality, and also from the manipulations that this current government has dragged you into. I'm asking you to be critical and not get hooked on the gust and the fascism. At a time when the world is available to you via the Internet, please do not follow the fools, our political and public scene is full, and you are better than that because only with the better of you and Croatia can one day be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103007	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Zekanovic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103008	Dear Vice President, Art. In 238, so a colleague here hunts witches, first hunts down a Karamark witch who turns out to be not a witch, but hunts witches and witches on Slavonski Brod. So, ma'am. Oreshkovic, raising hands in the air has nothing to do with fascism. I don't know, you're looking for, you'd be saved if a squad of fascists were to march in Croatia because then you'd have someone to fight, unfortunately there aren't them, there aren't them, there aren't you, and you're still dreaming and you're making it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103009	Comrade Zekanovic, you know it was a replica, so you will be warned
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103085	Let's go with the free speeches. The first is the presentation of a position on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, counterpart Martina, Marina pardon, Opačak Bilic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103086	I'd like to thank the president. Fellow Members and colleagues, is the promised slogan in force that we will have a safe Croatia or, on some issues, our Croatia, its citizens, their property and agricultural crops were still unprotected we could see yesterday in the afternoon when a severe storm hit northern Croatia. The locals say today, it came fast, took a few minutes, beat and beat like it was a war, and we'll just collect the damage, and the ice was the size of an orange. Since there are no sites that are not damaged in some municipalities, it is to be assumed that the damages of this disaster will be multimillion, and in addition to the material damage of this situation and such an elemental accident are threats to human lives and unfortunately, we knew before even the injuries during the storms, and especially yesterday, except that there was the burning of the roof of a house after the fall of the electric lines, the tree fell to a kindergarten and after this we only have to say, fortunately there were no victims. But the question I asked for this speaker two and three weeks ago, I'm going to do it again today. So why, without introducing any alternative defenses against the fight, have we abolished the model so far? Why are we making Croatia unprotected instead of safe? Where is Croatia's anti-wall defense? Is it responsible that both citizens and farmers are told by the Ministry of Agriculture there is no protection in the insurance houses? Is it safe for Croatia or should we have human sacrifices to realize that we are not doing something right? Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, respected citizens, we know that nature does its part and that the planet often only gives us an answer to how we treat it, but still, there are ways in which we can still fight the higher forces and there are ways and models that have been used for decades to reduce the intensity of the fight and the size of the ice, in order to reduce the beating surfaces and ultimately, to reduce the damage. For some unknown reasons, however, it has been systematically worked to shut down the defence system against fighting, more specifically, for years, the missile defence has been sabotaged or to say, organisationally, technically, professionally and financially devastated, so that today we can come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Agriculture has put it out of service, explaining that it is unwarranted and expensive, so we can only conclude from this that the competent authorities responsible for carrying out the anti-building defence obviously consider that the huge damages are not expensive. For reasons given to us, we can't even say they're inconsolable, but we can say they're ridiculous. And I'm going to repeat the statement by the Minister of Agriculture who says, the measures we consider most important, these are insurance measures. It also forgets that even the insurance house will not provide agricultural production that is too risky according to their assessment, and as for family houses and private property, we know that people have been waiting for damage recovery for years, just like the people affected by the earthquake. I therefore appeal to the authorities not to wait for a new disaster, so DHMZ, which was responsible for the implementation of the defence and the Ministry of Agriculture, which was responsible for the Regulation on action and which in 2019 reduced the number of stations using rockets from 51 to 23, and then in 2020 completely removed the missiles from use, and that same year required the abolition of the defence system law and which, according to data, became reduced from 82 to 43 last year and supplied them instead of the usual 60 liters of necessary liquids. This year we do not have official data on the state of play, but in view of the practice and reduction of tools and equipment, given the suspension of rockets that should be said, in recent years of use, instead of from Djuro Djakovic's tools were obtained from imports and given the decommissioning of operational defences, we conclude that no model is being implemented, and the price of such decisions is being paid exclusively by our citizens. Therefore, Ministers should be removed from the position of advisors and if you promote a safe, rather than unprotected Croatia return the anti-urban defence system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103087	Thank you. The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, according to the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103147	There have also been isolated opinions by the Constitutional Court judges on the impeding of a referendum on two initiatives "Enough with the Stogerocracy" and "We decide together". If in the Republic of Croatia, which would be quite unusual, especially for political space, we would only talk about arguments, not our political preferences, then we would see here that there are unequivocal arguments on the side of at least the first constitutional issue. What can we learn from all this? First, according to the constitutional court's interpretation, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been subscribed. When they sign, they don't know what they're signing, they don't know what they're thinking, and most likely they don't think at all. Another strange poetic interpretation of the constitutional court can be interpreted at the level of linguistic file, because what is not contrary to the system, and even the constitutional court itself had to confirm that the first constitutional issue is not the opposite of the constitution, may be incompatible with that same constitution. It is likely that the current composition of the constitutional court, or the majority who made the decision, understands the Croatian language a little bit better than those who created it and what is indeed a lexical literal meaning of the word. What are the consequences of that? The consequences are next. The Constitutional Court came out of its jurisdiction by such a decision because on the basis of the arbitration criteria, and we interpret them as political classification on the side of the HDZ, which you imagine is the only one satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision, decided that the issue which, in accordance with the constitution, still cannot be a referendum issue, they are clearly in a state and measured to what extent the citizens were mistaken. The criteria for this measure do not exist, perhaps the criterion is one of Plenkovic's moments, perhaps the criterion is two of Plenkovic's moments. Surely the Constitutional Court will be able to explain such a thing when the issue is raised again in public. So, apart from being out of their jurisdiction and this is about precedent, we have for the first time a situation in which a referendum for which a sufficient number of signatures has been collected has been disabled in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, the Republic of Croatia is at a crossroads in terms of democratic procedures. So far, we have had a referendum initiative for which the number of signatures has been collected and one referendum initiative has been held, the union, the number of signatures sufficient, so the legislative changes have been made before the need to call a referendum and this requirement has been respected. But now we have a situation in which a referendum of political will is disabled without the right criteria. This is a suspension of democracy. Imagine tomorrow that someone is disabling democratic elections, and what is the difference between disabling the law of the allowed referendum and tomorrow perhaps disabling democratic elections? Those who are able to do this, will do it tomorrow. And therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are at a crossroads, because it is a real question of how long we will allow us in terms of allowing our democratic will to be declared by this ruling majority of shoemakers. The only way to do this is to decide on our own to change this power, and MOST will certainly not leave the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at large.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103148	Thank you, colleague Selak-Raspudic. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure from a colleague of the Habian. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103149	I thank the esteemed vice president. So Article 238 deviation from the usual behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. So, a colleague here has now made it very clear that she and her band from MOST do not respect the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitutional Court did not say that the citizens were undercapacitated, but said that exactly the way you explained your initiative was actually fooled, which is what the Venice Commission tells you. Read that part. And this isn't the first referendum to fall in the Constitutional Court. You had Cyrillic plates, you had highway monetization. Therefore, it would be good if, before speaking here, you were first telling the truth or asking questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103150	My colleague, Habib, you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So that you may give your sight and reflect, so I give you a warning. My colleague Selak Rasludic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103151	Article 238 of his colleague, Habib, should the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be told that they do not understand the meaning of the two-thirds majority in Article 17. In spite of the question which every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has a clear opinion and has agreed to sign the same initiative, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are then simplified but unequivocally considered under-recipated, and this is your explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision because you obviously consider them under-recitated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103152	Okay. You've now entered into an argument with your colleague, Habib. It was a replica and a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's how I have to give you a heads-up. And now I see that we continue in the show tone. Let's get another warning. A fellow Shimičević steps bravely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103153	Thank you, colleagues. Article 238 was injured by a colleague of insults and disrespects in fact the institutions of the Croatian State, and those of the people who signed them, 400 of them do not know the creation of a myth. He signed 400,000, but he didn't sign a million and 600,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103154	And you've hurt the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure to replicate, and you've actually unnecessarily raised that tile because I've already given my colleague a warning, so I'm telling you a warning. But let's move on, your wife won't be in your debt. colleague Selak Rasludic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103155	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 400,000, not 400, is not a question of one's mythological interpretation, which is reminded by the current interpretation of the ruling majority of the Constitutional Court, but is a question of the legal minimum of the number of signatures needed to hold the referendum. So we stick to the letters of the law, not your interpretations. Croatia would in that case be a much better place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103156	Let's stick to the letter of the law and stick to the Rules of Procedure. You didn't follow the Rules of Procedure now, you replicated and you have a warning. Second. Next up is counterpart Urša Raukar Gamulin, who will present the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103234	Thank you. So I'll talk about yesterday's unfortunate events. So, again, we have witnessed the never-seen destruction of nature in the city of Sisak. The storm storm has taken on new frightening proportions, and unfortunately the already wounded town of Sisak and its inhabitants have done new damage. And not only Sisak and its surroundings, as many as 5 counties were killed, roofs were damaged, trees were destroyed, personal cars damaged, enormous damage in agriculture, among other things half of Croatian flower production was destroyed. Climate change is therefore in effect. Today we want to talk again about the unprepared nature of our country's different segments of climate change that are there. In 2019, the Croatian Parliament passed a new Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. This law defines activities that may result in damages caused by a natural disaster by citizens in certain cases. Three years after the adoption of this law, we can freely say that the law has in practice proved to be completely dysfunctional. Namely, it does not provide fair and timely compensation for damages. Moreover, the fees paid after the evaluation procedure, for example, to farmers, are simply humiliating for these people. The law also didn't happen to be activated in the event of an earthquake because if by any chance it was activated it would be a disaster because people would probably get incredibly small damages. It is almost incredible that in times of clear climate change we still have a law that does not provide adequate assistance to the destruction of agriculture due to extraordinary climate events. The law clearly aims to discourage farmers. This is also visible from the reservation from the budget for '22. a year where only 20 million kuna was reserved for damages in the entire country. In addition to this law, farmers are pushed towards private insurance companies which then arbitrarily prescribe the criteria when and under what conditions they are willing to pay for the damage. So insurance companies, for example. put completely unrealistic dates from when it can be reported, e.g. It's a shame of the cold. It is often admitted that the damage occurred only after 10 April of the year, and on the other hand, the warming that we are all witnessing together comes much earlier and already in March comes the bloom of various plants. At the same time, this bloom is increasingly destroying the cold that appears in the morning. Experiences of freezing nights and early mornings, and on a warm day we all feel in our own skin, and insurance companies have much better recognised climate change than the Government of the Republic of Croatia because they set deadlines in a way that makes less damage pay, while the government is pushing farmers towards primary insurance companies. And that balling with people and the farm for us in the green-left block is totally unacceptable. This situation is unsustainable and humiliating. We expect a change to protect people who work in agriculture, branches that have proved crucial to society's security in recent years. I suppose this does not need to be stressed in light of the threat of serious problems in view of the war in Ukraine and the problems with the production and distribution of Ukrainian cereals. Our agricultural production is indeed an urgent national priority. The need to reorganise the civil protection system to be responsive to climate change is what we've been talking about since the first day of our entry into parliament. We have invested a number of amendments in this direction that have been refuted by the government, but the little good news is that the government itself has been raising funds to strengthen this system, so if it makes it easier for us to formally reject our policies or suggestions, and then you spend them in secret. In front of us are also challenging hot summers, fires, the expected great flow of tourists that we will welcome this year without establishing an emergency helicopter service. There's a series, a whole series of civil protection segments that are abandoned and resting on improvisation. And that's why we think it's about time that this changes urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103307	Let's move on, colleague Marijan Pavliček will hold positions on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103308	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, each year especially during the spring and summer months Croatia has been plagued by numerous natural disasters from floods, droughts, storm winds and to fighting. Unfortunately, these natural disasters are the most felt by our farmers because their crops depend on them. Every year, the damage to agricultural crops in terms of natural disasters across Croatia is several hundred million kunas, and sometimes even exceed a billion kuna per year. The latest example occurred yesterday in northwestern Croatia where the stormy wind followed by a fight in just a few minutes destroyed a number of agricultural crops, or even half of Croatian flower production. We can't affect the elemental accidents. On climate change, too. However, the question arises what about the Croatian system of defence against fighting. For several years, the Resort Ministry has reduced its financial resources to protect the defence against fighting because, based on expert opinion and analysis of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, it has come to the conclusion that the existing system of defence against fighting has not been scientifically proven, although it has been used in Croatia since the 1970s and therefore has been reducing the number of anti-urban missiles for years, the number of cells with generators has been reduced. What is the worst few thousand rackets stand, is not used and should even be destroyed. And, of course, it causes indignation and rocketeering but also numerous farmers. In fact, even part of the profession disagrees with this opinion, so Dusan Bizic graduated engineer and expert in defence of the fight, which has devoted more than 39 years of his career clearly and loudly says that the defence against the fight is effective and it reduces the damage. International data shows about 40 to 50%. What has been happening in Croatia in recent years added the question so-called scientific proof. What does scientific evidence mean? He described it in a vivid way when it comes to clouds in this case, so you take one cloud and you sow it and you look at the effect and the other one that doesn't shine and you look at the effect again. Now, that sounds simple but you can't find two equal clouds in nature. If you don't have two equal clouds, you can't even make a conclusion. If someone needs to prove our defenses against fighting, they're economists. So we're basically interested in the main economic, not the scientific effect. And it has been clearly and loudly proven that economic damage over the past 20 years is reducing the share of defense financing against fighting is much greater than it was before. The damage to agricultural crops is significantly greater than 20 and 30 years ago. So the question is, what is the alternative? Last year's ministry is that it will also end and put out of force the existing Law on Defence against Fight because it is considered ineffective, but what is offered? As an alternative, it is said that it is important to invest more funds in insurance policies, however, the question arises whether our farmers warlords are able to financially put all their surfaces under insurance. Why does the ministry co-finance the part rather than currently co-finance only the game protection policy on agricultural crops. If we're going and we have an alternative then let's go help these people. Currently, our farmers depend primarily on the mercy of the sky, and they do not have the protection of systems, and therefore we do not need to be surprised that every year we have fewer people who want to deal with agriculture, who want to deal with warfare because they are simply not about these natural disasters in any way protected from the Croatian state or from the restoring Ministry of Agriculture. Every time a certain damage occurs, the ministry appears in the given place and says it will help, but let's begin to avoid it and try to find a system as truly our agricultural producers and their crops protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103309	Thank you. Let's move on. The presentation of the position of the National Movement Club of Representatives, Col. Prkachin, has already tried to move towards the speaker, but he saw that it was a wasteful job. Here, now you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103426	I think I will be able to complete the processing of the phenomenon of the Serbian Orthodox Church even think I have extra time after my colleagues asked me to comment on a large number of letters, messages, etc. They're following people, they find this very interesting. So 30 seconds can do that. I welcome, thank all those who support me. I have respect for those who don't love me, me and my attitudes. So I have divided these messages into three kinds – friends, enemies and fools. I'm the one who's being disgusted by the homeless and you're talking about the Serbian Orthodox Church, and young people are moving out. Gentlemen and you out there in this House are discussing agriculture, industry, transport, culture, unculture and the Serbian Orthodox Church. When we break the budget debate, and insert the Serbian Orthodox Church, then what they claim or who is interested in and 50 times more views is on this topic than on someone else. But then, let me say what I still have. Here's the third time I'm taking out paper and I'm finally going to do this paper. On that paper, Mr. Nenad Piskac worked the Dosite Vasic case seven years ago, an episcope of the Serbian Orthodox Church from Zagreb, which the nuns had beastly tortured in prison for four years, and was released to Belgrade, and died there. However, the man found Dositej Vasic in the fifth month of '42. For years, together with the German officers, he'd been on some kind of empty evenings, opening some kind of exhibitions, etc. So one of his letters was found where he spoke to his wartime or religious mate and said the night he was beastly tormented from which he seemed to have spent one single night in that Ustasha case. Now that I've touched Dosite, something else on Valerian's memo because Mr Milosevic, who was the most concrete, said why he hated the Serbian Orthodox Church and why he told stories about the Serbian Orthodox Church doing evil. I can be angry and angry, but I won't hate anyone. However, this memo of Valerian, gentlemen, a year ago I spoke, even said I would print 150 copies that you would see with the official stamp of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that it reads that the beastly Croats or the beastly Croatian army or the beastly Ustasha killed all Serbs in Glina, killed all Serbs in Bihac, Krupa, Gospić, Lapca, etc., and the list of '48. In the year, this Valerian memo is available in the archives in Belgrade. It was given to me by the esteemed Stjepan Lozo, thank him, but I also asked through the Serbian connection to be given a copy of the memo, I have it. That memo really needs to be looked at. He's still, he's still current. So, a census of '48. The year says there are 10.099 Serbs in Lapca, and only 139 Croats, and we slaughtered them. So then in, in Gospić, the boiler and the municipality about 10,000, and all killed. Well then, in Clay, as much as 22,000, and all those killed, etc., that is, that is the memorandum. But there's another detail I have to pay attention to and I'll try to read it, read it exactly as it says. Last weekend, it was marked 100 years since the unification of the local dioceses in the unique SPC in Sremski Karlovci. Gentlemen, this is a lie, this is a hoax, this is a scam. I've talked about it a little bit, but now I have to be specific. In 920, when Alexander Karadjordjevic was ordered to join all Orthodox churches in these areas and when 19. 2. In 1922, he received a tomos from Carigrass. In Tomos, he writes the following, respecting the agreed unity of auto-Cefal Orthodox churches, so he lists them as Serbian, Montenegrin and Karlovac to be Serbian churches, then he would write the unification of three Serbian Orthodox churches, however, a single deception, a lie once a little bit more time, so I will quote Dobric Cosic, a great politician and a great writer, so what he said about lies and Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103427	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103560	And now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103561	The interests of children and their protection in the welfare system for which the Mega Ministry of Labour, Pension Insurance, Family and Social Welfare is responsible is seriously at stake in this government. On a daily basis, we get feedback from the social care center, from the home care center, from foster families about the insustainability of the system and insufficient capacity in institutions and foster families. Users and workers in the social care system address for help the Ombudsman for children in view of the worrying fact that a large number of children without adequate parental care located in institutions and with the fact that expert workers of the social care centre are disabled in the pursuit of the protection of children's rights and welfare because they have nowhere to place children who need to be singled out of the family. In the event of an emergency separation from the family, children are housed on daily stays of institutions due to insufficient capacity and their rights and well-being, as they have passed severe traumatic experiences due to carelessness, neglect and abuse in their own families, they are further unprotected in the system because there are no adequate places and professional workers who need to take care of them in institutions. On the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports last week, we warned of a devastating fact about the insufficient number of foster parents, and asked for concrete indicators of the implementation of amendments to the Household Act, which gave me the answer that time is too short for certain results to be seen. It is only an indication of the lack of awareness of the burning problems in the system, lack of knowledge and insufficient struggles for every child in the welfare system, it is particularly difficult to provide care outside his own family when a child has significant mental health disorders that manifest aggression or auto aggression that causes the child and all family members to suffer. As a rule, for such users there is no room in social care systems, the social care centre does not find a place to be free and the problem is solved by individual interventions of the competent ministry or is not resolved at all. The example of capacitation is the Children's Home of Zagreb, where there are currently 90 children at the accommodation, although the home has an accommodation capacity for 61 children, and this problem is familiar with the competent ministry. There are many such examples throughout the Republic of Croatia. Such neglect in the system can be called structural violence against children who are directly implemented by the ministry that should protect children's rights without adequate parental care. The process of transformation of institutions and deinstitutionalisation of homes is gone, nothing has happened for years with regard to the provision of new accommodation facilities. On the other hand, we have the implementation of new legal changes in the welfare system where the regulation of the new Social Care Act has done nothing about better services and the implementation of measures in the family legal area. Professionals with system overload do not have the conditions to provide services as Europe's standards require, so one expert is taking care of us or leading the case to 150 families, working with heavy families versus 30, as European standards require. As far as judicial work is concerned, in family legal cases, what we are warning is constantly, it is necessary to educate judges because it is unthinkable that in the reasons for our decisions of our judiciary, there are extremely inadequate and stringy or legally justified thesis, and the European Court of Human Rights repeals the decisions of the Constitutional Court. As long-term proceedings persist at higher and lower levels of courts regarding parental care for children for years, no one wonders what the consequences of these most vulnerable ones have, means our children and what makes them protected in all these long-term procedures. We ask that the government assume responsibility for each child today and ensure the necessary accommodation facilities without delay for each child and every person with disabilities. Does this society really not care about all these sad children's fates and what kind of people we are when we make such a society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103650	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the RF will now speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103651	Good afternoon. When you hear someone say the issue of abortion is complex, make it simple, make sure it's an ultra-clerical fundamentalist, right-wing or right-wing, and then relativize women's right to abortion. The second feature of this speech is false mutilation, which rests mainly on the Kaphanian bioetics and primordial metaphysics, esoteric speech on the protection of life from conception, which quickly falls into the recorded paradox of excessive care for the accumulation of cells and complete absence at the same time, care for living people, persons who have developed a nervous system and who think and feel children of migrants, sexually, national and other minorities for workers, workers, material rights of living people who, without these rights, are solved de facto of all other rights, civil and human rights. Because if a man does not have a satisfied basic need, this hypertrophy of human rights speech represents nothing more than empty sophistication in the mouth of middle-class well-infected long-careers. The basic needs of nutrition, housing, health care, and education would be placed on the market, declared by a service paid for in view of who can be singled out. You shall set out the peace as much as you can, and you shall live as you deserve. Health care issuing as much as you can, so you will be provided with as much health care as your class status allows. Pay for your education so your children will be educated according to your property status, not so that they all have the same opportunities, the same opportunities, the same positions. Basic means putting needs as something irrelevant civil freedoms as something before. The third feature of this political speech is reserved for a particularly hypocritical right. It is she who does not want to openly say what she thinks, who wraps her sophistical pamphlets in the whole of false tolerance, the handy help herself with spirituality, ground esoterics that have nothing to do with real life. But this hypocritical and opportunistic right is even more sleazy than the other right, because with vague attitudes, refusing to clearly determine the social, political, social issues is an illustrative example of right-handed empty pulsism, which, unlike the left, has no social, egalitarian, materialistic dimension, already represents pure mental gymnastics and practice of the high school debate club. Such bar bioeetics and handy priests need a translation under their speech, so let us take the lead. First when they say they're for family, they're against equality between men and women, against LGBT persons. When they say they're intolerant, they're definitely against her. And now current and therefore not more important when they say they're for life, then they're undoubtedly without a ban on abortion. The only reason why they won't say it openly is that their political gymnastics rests on a public opinion survey that now shows them that such an open misogenous attitude, attitude against women, against public health is unpopular. Maintaining a political life and a rigid ultra-clerical right depends and is based solely on a superficial anti-corruption narrative that potentiates without any understanding of the structural and systemic reasons for corruption, where corruption is depicted as some moral degradation of rulings that should only be replaced. And here we have honest, unsuspecting and socially-oriented politicians who will change the misery of the working majority overnight. Such hypocrites quasi democracies attack today's initiative to return abortions to the Constitution, by the way, to argue that all of this is uncanny, referring to science even though in the pandemic they were the biggest opponents of this science, although in their misogenous attack on female reproductive rights they also base their arguments on totally unknown raving. And the only thing that prevents them from saying what they think is the latest poll, which is that 73% of those questioned against the ban on abortion, regardless of the aggressive campaign of clerical associations and parties, to prevent that minority of fundamentalists from harassing women and denying the right to health care. The Workers' Front and the Fakti Association introduced the subject of abortion into the Constitution in public space. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103652	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Zekanovic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103653	Your Honor, Vice President, 238. I will even agree with one part of this speech and I will even admit to my colleagues, Peovic, that she is a credible leftist and consistent in her views. However, I will remind her that she was also a crowd of cells once and that one of your mother's wives wanted to bring that pile of cells to the world at some point, and there you are. And on the other hand, you said you were for life, that you were against abortion. We can translate it like this when you're about to have an abortion, then you're about to kill. And if it were a poll of whether you were against killing would probably be 100 percent of people against killing the unborn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103654	Thank you. And it was a replica, so you get a warning again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103688	Next in line is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, colleague Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103689	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, and here are while the average European pensioners plan to travel to the Croatian coast or are already resting in some Croatian hotels and, for example, in Opatija, drink afternoon coffee, eat cake and even think about which destination they might visit in the autumn, our pensioners are thinking whether they can afford 10 dkg of mortadela for dinner today. Sad, pathetic, embarrassing, humiliating whatever you want to call it, but unfortunately it is a Croatian reality and should not run away from it. Does anyone wonder how these people live after they pay for all their obligations, drugs that HZZO doesn't cover? Does he ask how with the average pension these people eat, drink, buy drugs? And as far as health care is concerned, I'm not going in any deeper because right now it's not a topic, but we all know what waiting lists are, and we know well that you're the average pensioner, a certain examination in some private clinic, just can't afford. People who work daily complain about the unsustainable price growth and ask how in the autumn and winter they will get heating and clothing, shoes, food and all that is important, and the wages unfortunately do not grow. And then how will the pensioners if the workers can't? Don't our notes that built this country deserve a decent age? Retired children, pensioners have had a hard time living since childhood, before the pandemic, before inflation, who brought additional costs and purchases, and now literally livers. They themselves say that they buy what they need most, and that before they buy a kilo of two now they buy half a kilo and fear that if this trend of price growth continues by the end of the year they will not be able to buy anything at all. They live, unfortunately, so that after the pension comes, they pay their dues, and all they have left is to follow actions and discounts at certain malls, and so from month to month, literally keeping an eye on each kuna, because most of them except for the most basic of all are one luxury, and so is the purchase of daily newspapers that they buy literally once a week. And it can't be missed that every day more and more pensioners who walk from bucket to bucket looking for bottles that would sell or earn something more because unfortunately the heads that are stuck in the container have become our reality. So people who have worked and contributed and have earned their pensions decently today dig through the bins looking for bottles. And we watched last week's debate on budget rebalancing where certain ministries are putting aside, where we had the Investment Encouragement Act, on the other hand, all state-owned land that has huge potential that can question huge investments in the economy, in opening new jobs simply staring blank, staring blank and ruling not knowing what to do with it. And then when we wonder if we've touched the bottom of course we're not because what can today's working-age generation hope for, what can they hope for when they see what our pensioners have burned to? And as we talk here today about the amount of pensions that are too small, and our pensioners receive it in the future, we'll say that the pension is gone, and there won't be any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u103690	Thank you, colleague Lerotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108837	Now we move to the next item of the agenda: - Selection, appointments, resolutions. I'd like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mrs. Hope Murganic to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108838	Thank you, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. At the 29th session held on 25.5.2022. The Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs has made several proposals for decisions. The first decision to appoint a deputy governor of the CNB, is named Dr. Tomislav Ćorić In the article, just a little bit, in art. The 80st century 2. The CNB Act is prescribed to appoint the Governor of the CNB on the proposal of the already mentioned committee and with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] By decision on the discharge of the Vice Governor of the CNB mag. Martine Drvar was relieved of his duty on a personal request on 1 October 2021. Following the above, the Committee on several occasions asked the clubs to submit proposals for Vice Governor or Vice Governor of the CNB, and the last letter also set the deadline for the delivery of the same proposal until 19 May 2022. The club of HDZ representatives, the Croatian National Party Representatives and Liberal Democrats Club, the Croatian Party of Retired and Independent Representatives, the Croatian-Social Liberal Party Representatives Club and the National Party of Reformists, the National Minority Representatives Club and the SDSS Club have proposed to appoint Dr. Tomislav Djoric. In accordance with these provisions of the law, the Committee on Finance and Budgets, which decided to support the proposal of the clubs at its 50th session on 25 May, asked for the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. As already said by the Election and Appointing Committee, it also addressed the proposal to HS. Next, the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals HS is resolved by a member of the Committee Miro Bulj, and Ante Kujundzic is elected as a member of the Committee. Next decision, Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, is resolved by member Ante Kujundzic, who is named Representative Miro Bulj. Decision on the discharge of the members of the Committee on Information and Information and Media HS, a member of the Committee of Dr. Neven Bosilj and on a personal request. All these decisions will be published in the National Journals and will take effect on the day of their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108839	I thank the board presidents and open the debate. She's the first one. Mirela Ahmetovic, who will represent the SDP's Club's positions, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108840	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. In the recall debate, then current Minister Tomislav Ćorić in November 2020, I told this speaker that Croatia will be a better country when people like Ćorić are not in government and now I have to admit that I made a big mistake. Tomislav Ćoric is no longer a government minister, allegedly by his will, but Croatia has not become a better country. Croatia can't become a better country as it is served, compromised, spent ministers send new jobs to destroy Croatian institutions by their destructive actions, and that's exactly what happens with this appointment. Tomislav Ćoric of the government did not go on his own terms, as he tried to present himself in public, like, tired. And of what exactly? From handing over Croatian national interests into other people's hands? From the tragic ignorance of economic processes? From leaving the environmental protection segment? No, I don't. Tomislav Ćoric went under the charges of his former assistant, Domagoj Validzic, who charged him that it was Ćoric who insisted that the company should agree to maintain the status of a privileged producer despite failing to meet the formal conditions. Based on this agreement, the CEMP was credited by HBOR and while this case was acidified in DORH and USKOK, Ćoric went from the government with his own free will, and in parallel, of course, he dug and dug up a position in which he had no responsibility, and he would be paid better than the minister. And what's the catch? I wonder, and every average citizen of the Republic of Croatia wonders. Which for the average, which for Ćorić's salary, if he is so happy to have an average salary, must work 5.5 months without saying that Ćorić will receive almost a full year's salary of workers or workers working for the minimum worker in a month. And in what is the secret of Tomislav Ćorić's success and what has he earned this position? One reason could be that Ćoric is the creator of Croatia's grand HDZ programme. The programme left only pale pages, unfulfilled promises and Ćorić's ironic smile on the mere mention of galloping inflation and this is what you all here remember from the current in 15.9.2021, and then inflation was only 2.8%. We know what it's like today. He thought it was funny, and now we see why. However, that is enough reason for Ćorića to park in a luxuriant place and so pleased and proud of his work to be at a safe distance from potential investigators. Another reason could be Andrej Plenkovic's debt to Coric. What kind of debt it's about, we can only guess. I am convinced that this will be presented to the Croatian public long sooner or later. We all remember the panic in HDZ lines when former HDZ confidant Josipa Rimac ended up in prison. Many then feared for their fate. They bit their fingernails, waited, and then they all started falling apart. What is the relation of Plenković-Ćorić, who is the winemaker of the Vjetroelectrica affair, in this respect should seek the reason for this award that Plenkovic Ćorić intended. And it's not a problem here just to appoint Coric as vice governor, so he could have been automatically appointed governor, it wouldn't have been any different. However, if an incompetent corruption affair is appointed by a burdened minister to an institution such as the CNB, then the problem is also in the institution. Who will trust such an institution if a man comes in such a commercial and artistic way who has ruined Croatian energy? Any poorer appointments than this? Today we're all wondering about it, and I'm wondering, did any of the proposings ask themselves what the CNB was up to? What do they think, for example, that valuable CNB employees are doing their job fairly, but they can't move forward, because, for example, they don't own a HDZ card? Can they be satisfied with a state that doesn't even see their work, and compromised personnel take care of it this way? What are the criteria for governor of the CNB? That he is a good man, how did the prime minister sing at the Slavic impeachment on Coric, or attempt to recall? That he is capable of delivering Croatian resources to the foreign state, how did he deliver oil to the Hungarians? That it is capable of making money for Croatian citizens an illegal strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, and then additionally handing it over to another country? Is the criteria for the place of the vice governor confirming the principle of the public enterprise of a man who has been accused of setting up jobs for a private company, and then with that same man Ćorić ate and drank in a club where the money counter was symbolically located? Is the criteria for the appointment of new INA management members through a speed contest organised by Ćorić far from the public's eyes for the earthquake and crown gathering in March 2020, and after 9 years of dispute and complex relations Croatia has had with MOL and has with MOL, new members of the administration have been elected, all of which are close to MOL, i.e. which MOL, let us be honest, informal and choose. Is the criterion that Ćorić personally took in the stock stores, which repeatedly overpaid the antigen tests at the time of the pandemic, and shortly after the earthquake had no idea how many Croatia has containers, how many tents are available? Is the criterion for this by Croatia a tragic appointment that Čoric has been putting his hand on the galloping inflation that everyone has been warning, and not only Coric or possibly his assistant, Milatić, has seen it for months. Of course, all this I've listed is not the criteria that the CNB ran. In fact, to be perfectly honest, the CNB didn't even ask questions in this case. The appointment was conducted with the head, beard and boast of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who decided to reward the money of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia for those for whom Coric had not fingered or moved in his ministerial internship. With this appointment, we witness the additional disintegration of institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And with this HDZ, Croatia has broken apart with its human resources, destroyed any hope that this country can be better and closer to its citizens. Only in HDZ personneling is it possible for archaeologists to become headmaster of the home for the powerless, a man who takes out guilty ovaries of the medical institution's director, a former minister who has issued national interests by selling energy to the vice-government of the CNB. Because of all the misdeeds that Tomislav Čorić has done with the blessing of Andrej Plenkovic to Croatia, he should not end up in HNB, but in room two with three. Plenkovic will certainly be easier to finish there from the place of deputy governor of HNV, not from the minister's post. But that is exactly the kind of tactics that proves that Plenkovic's Croatia has touched the bottom. With this appointment of Mr Tomislav Čorić, Croatia lost both face and reputation. I sincerely hope the CNB has good protective mechanisms. He's got a secure property and he's got a secure international reserve. With the new vice governor, it could all become insecure judging by his actions while he was a minister. I hope we won't be reading soon how part of the reserve is handed over to Hungary with the signature of Vice Governor Coric, but that's not impossible either. We remember well in February of this year, Hungary's central bank gave the current Governor Vujčić a reward of half a million kuna. Maybe that's how the Hungarians cheered up Vujčić to be clean in this case and he's clean. After energy and agricultural land Hungary takes over the most important financial institution in the country. This is the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia since the declaration of independence to politicise monetary institutions in this country and by directly installing members of the government and members of the HDZ in its highest governance structure. Because of everything I have cited with disgust, the SDP rejects the Committee's proposal for selection, appointment and administrative affairs, and we will not support Tomislav Coric for Vice Governor of the CNB. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108841	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavić will represent HDZ's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108842	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the club today, I am explaining Dr. Tomislav Coric for Vice Governor of the CNB. It's interesting, and we also saw it on the Committee on Finance that everyone suddenly obtained PhDs from the economy, from monetary policy, Dr. Coric is just one of the few experts in Croatia from monetary policy. He confirmed it yesterday. Primorac on board, a man who has just received his doctorate in the euro and on a course mechanism where Croatia is and where Croatia enters the euro zone from 1.1 next year. The reputation of the CNB, which also wants to offend enough speaking here is yesterday's meeting of Christine Lagarde with Prime Minister Plenkovic in Davos. Enough speaks the arrival of Vice-President of the European Commission Dobrovski with the next week in Zagreb, which he himself was prime minister of Latvia and was introducing the euro into Latvia. Enough is said by the European Commission where with Ireland, Croatia is the only country that has fully emerged from macroeconomic imbalances. So, for Vice Governor of the CNB, we propose an expert, a man who has a career and outside the ministry, who doctored in that area at the moment Croatia enters the euro zone. The reputation of the CNB abroad absolutely stands, all and the charges we had for the illegal trading of Governor Vujčić we rejected them to the Finance Committee. And once again Tomislav Coric doctored at the introduction of the euro, we were together in the committee for Croatia's entry into the euro and he is one of the few people who are monetary experts with the doctorate. If he's not a vice governor candidate, then I really don't know who he would be. When we look, and on the board yesterday, the criticisms were on his work in the ministry, on the mandate of this government. I know the opposition has an attitude and, of course, it will not agree with the government's policies, but let's look at what's left in Minister Coric's term. If he had just finished LNG, I am sorry that there is no colleague Ahmetovic who wanted to throw himself in front of baggers and stop LNG on Krk, only that he ended LNG in this crisis, the legacy that leaves behind is 57% of Croatian gas coming from LNG is enough. Just that that's it. Together with them, I was his secretary of state and we launched a programme of Desires that employs 20,000 women in the rural area. Only that he left the two projects behind a lot, and he also launched significant investments in the water sector of nearly 18 billion kuna in the water sector, water lines, waste water purifiers, increased the rate of continued i.e. The waste separation rate came to 41% from 26% and nearly 4 billion kuna in waste classification, a low-carbon strategy was adopted and what is important was secured 25 billion euros for the next 10 years, almost 40% of which came from the next generation of eu funds for green transition. In sustainable development and Croatia contributed to the single and personal COP26 climate conference in Glasgow where Prime Minister and Minister Coric announced that Croatia is giving up investment of coal by 2023 and that we will protect a third of the Adriatic. All this says that the mandate has been successful, but if we say that we from the HDZ ruling coalition, let's look at the figures, let's look at the figures that speak clearly, which the European Commission has also estimated that Croatia is the only one with Ireland out of any macroeconomic imbalances. As far as inflation is concerned, it is imported, all countries have inflation, but further growth and wage growth is stronger than the inflation rate when we watch the entire mandate of Andrej Plenkovic. At the moment, at 70% of GDP development rates compared to the EU average, we were at 61% in 2015, investment in European funds, European funds changed Croatia, I already said Minister Ćorić's contribution specifically to environmental protection and economic development, 12.5 billion kuna invested in employment measures, 700,000 jobs saved. Croatia was in the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, we remember that the government of Zoran Milanovic was three times down credit ratings, we had three years surplus in 2019 we came out of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, and this year we are without macroeconomic imbalances. The share of our debt is falling enough and we will meet all the criteria, next week I believe that the European Commission's report and the arrival of the Vice-President of the Dombrovskis will mean a final agreement on Croatia's entry into the euro area and that the CNB will have a significant share. Although we are aware of the emigration of young people and demographics, the growth of the economy is envied so much that we now have a million and 600 thousand employees which is much more than practical since 2008, and I believe that this year we are going to exceed the employment rate or the number of employees in the next 20 years. The unemployment rate at the same time drops 6.5% is the Croatian average, 6.2% is the EU average, and wages are constantly rising in the mandate of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Ćorić 1.824 kuna, we have crossed a thousand euros in Croatia's average, we have crossed 8,300 in the city of Zagreb, a minimum net salary of 3,750 kuna 500 euros. So, if he was really such a bad minister, how come this number of people who estimate us with a pharmacy scale, credit rating agency, European Commission, World Bank, European Central Bank? If the CNB's reputation is really so bad, how is it that we got out of the macroeconomic imbalance rate and how is it that Prime Minister Plenkovic was so well received and that before Croatia entered the exchange mechanism in July 2020 that the European Central Bank loaned us and gave us a stand behind Croatia in a covid crisis of 2 billion euros, we gave them 15 billion kuna? All of this led to stabilization and credit rating and a drop in interest rates, and Dr. Ćorić once again as an expert, as one of the few people dealing with monetary policy that has a career and outside the ministry is returning to the area in which he was taking his doctorate on the 1.2 course mechanism in which they are now in Croatia, we are now leaving the euro area soon, and as such I believe that there will be a significant contribution to the work of the CNB and also a significant contribution to Croatia's entry into the euro zone. The criticism that it may not be a trend to enter the euro zone right now is not exactly standing because it reduces interest, thus allowing easier borrowing of our citizens and thus making it possible for Croatian citizens to live a better life. Finally, the HDZ Club will support this proposal for the conclusion of the committee in which Dr. We propose to Tomislav Ćorić as deputy governor of the CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108843	Thank you. Mr. Bozo Petrov, yes, will represent the views of the Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108844	Honorable parliamentary representatives, MPs, dear citizens. Such panegyrics would not be ashamed of the greatest Greek poets, Roman poets. Well, I mean, when people hear like this, it's wonderful. That's wonderful. I think that when you put a person in such an important place, I think that apart from the formal satisfaction of the conditions of the type of degree of the Faculty of Economics, I think I would dare say that hundreds of thousands of people in Croatia today satisfy this condition. I think it is necessary to assess the skills and abilities of that person, the profile or value of that person, because I don't think there would be any burning that man will receive how many tens of thousands of kuna a month? You think all you have to do is have a degree and a Ph.D. at the Faculty of Economics? I think it takes a lot more than that, because then you should make a public tender and invite people to apply. That's why I think it's necessary to take a good look. So let's look at the skills, abilities, profile, characteristics, values of the man you're proposing. He was in charge of energy. In energy, man spent the Hungarianization of the energy sector. Today we are even more dependent on the import of electricity and other types of energy from Hungary to Croatia, even more power lines, the pipeline is now coming from Hungary to Croatia. Bravo! It also started to liberalise the energy sector, so it was better to retreat back as they ran into it on their noses, so on their noses they came out of this liberalisation of the energy sector all under the direction of the man you propose to be the vice governor of the Croatian National Bank. The second thing, i.e. the third thing hydropower plants also belong to the energy that he managed. What did you do about the Lièko Lesče hydropower plant? You swore in the Carlovec people you'd fix the situation. Did something happen? It's nothing. Hear, hear, promise, forget, finish the story. You are building the same hydropower plant today at Kosinj with the same problem, equal ineffectiveness. The same man you're proposing as the vice governor today. Yes, you boasted that you had finished LNG, I think you should remember who started LNG for you, which you resisted for LNG. It was started by the Most, but aside from that. As far as the energy you've done is concerned, that's what the gentleman you're proposing as vice governor has done on the solar system. Well, today there are even more solar plants in Slovenia, Finland, Norway than there are in Croatia. And he's been in charge of it for how many years? Waste management next thing. What did he do? The first day prompted the construction of county centres by waste management proven inefficient Marines, Kaštjun indicators. The only thing that they've become is that they can become collection sites where they need to build burner rooms because they can't be used as a resource. It's another success of this same man. At the head of the ministry he ran, we're still talking about skills and abilities. Afterwards, they have not solved the separation of waste, nor the collection centres in Croatia but well. Let's take a look at the profile, a little value, management, management. So the closest associate of this same man accused him of one of the biggest affairs in the sector, the affairs that will cost the state two billion kunas of Krš – Fallen publicly told USKOK, so you know I've acted all wrong, I've acted on the orders of this man that you want to appoint as vice governor. Okay. There's still his pearly statement, we're talking a little bit about the profile, a little bit about the skills, a little bit about the ability to come up with a statement of inflation. Come on, please! Catastropheists from the Most 11th month. What month is it today? Fifth. How much is inflation? 9%. Are you sure it's 9%? I think it's a two-digit number. That's the assessment. I think the vice governor is very important to his judgments, his knowledge, his experience, his skills. I guess all that combined gives an estimate. Give me an estimate of what inflation was five months ago. Also appraisal next. There will be a problem with the energy market, energy prices will rise. Come on, please! Today you need to pray that your fuel price per litre is at least 13 kuna if not more, that's his assessment. Also five, six months ago when he was head of the sector, you want another assessment of him? How much in advance you need to pay for the gas supply today, and how much you needed before. And who's to blame? And who's to blame for not having to order up-front gas today, so today we're paying a much higher price? Whose decision is that? Who's been sitting in the ministry for three years? The man you're proposing to be a vice governor, and away from his actions that speak again about both the profile and the values, concessions are granted non-transparently but essentially that he was at a club in Slovenia. The internal communications of journalists are being monitored, party employees are being hired, it is important that there is only branding T.C. and on all this prize of Vice Governor alone. Well, people who need to be governor if this isn't enough for the governor, it's just for the vice governor. So what do they have to do to become governors? Well, this needs a Nobel Prize, not a vice governor. So I don't know how your face doesn't fall? You say diploma is enough. Will the same man tomorrow when, by your order and by lifting mechanical hands, you can't raise your hand even if your cheek is 100 meters below ground, will he also declare as current vice governors that there's nothing they can do about inflation, exogenous patterns, causes, it's nice to get such a tempting word exogenous, they're not ours, we can't do anything. Well, the good people you do in those places, which you get 30, 40, 50 thousand kuna pay if you don't know and there's nothing you can do, so leave it to someone else, but it's obviously there to get paid. I'm wondering if you could honestly say if this person could get a job on a private market under these conditions, would you? Why don't you try it, so the same man when it comes to his, his options of entrepreneurs saying he's leaving, at the protests the entrepreneurs are saying he's leaving, he must've earned, what, 30, 40,000 kunas a month. And I don't want to spit on a man, it's not that, I never mentioned a name once because my names are irrelevant, it's an important way and it's important what's done in the state. I'd like people to remember this, to remember this at a time when it's very difficult for them, and it's already hard for them when they can't put an end to it, when they have to choose whether to buy bread or a liter of oil, then remember, they should at least remember the smiling faces of these people because they're doing well, they're doing well to vote in the elections that these people got, so they can cheer, dress and hack the country, and let the citizens remember, let them look at themselves and what they need to do for 5,000 kuna, and what a man can do and get a reward for 30 thousand kuna a month, let them remember that, especially on that day of the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108845	Now it's the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club and Mrs. Sandra Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108846	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the first of our performances and opening questions in the assembly was related to Minister Coric. So, as soon as we came in, we asked him directly here if he had met with investors in Krš-Pađene before he had signed a decision that invalidated the previous minister's decision, and thus allowed him not to have to carry out an additional impact assessment on the protected area in order to complete all documentation by the end of that year and thus to maintain the status of a priority producer in tariffs from 2013. It seems to me that enable them, or would allow them to make a huge profit in the future, which our Croatian citizens, of course, are paying for. At the time, Minister Coric said he normally met with investors and I don't think I remember it before he met with them, before that decision or after. Of course, later on, we found out everything by investigating the BUSKOK, and it was actually under the influence of the investors and made the kind of decision he made. It is quite clear that the case of Romec leads to a great risk for the former Minister Ćorić now and that Andrej Plenkovic is well aware, he knows that with every new testimony, with every new step in the investigation that Minister Ćorić, the chair will be sober and that is, of course, a very likely reason why he removed him from the government and we all know that. However, we are, in fact, all of us sitting here, Parliamentarians who are elected by the government, and we have never received an explanation, some sort of normal explanation why Minister Coric had to leave the government. We've heard something about fatigue, I think it's clear to everyone that it can't be an argument and that it's not an argument and that it's actually humiliating this institution of parliament that I'm re-choiced by these ministers and it solves those ministers. Not only did we not get an explanation of why it was going but we heard from the prime minister the praises of his political legacy at the place of Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. And in a situation where the prime minister is extremely pleased with this one minister, he replaces him without an explanation of HS. And I will remind you that apart from the Krš-Pared Political Heritage affair, Mr. Ćorić will be the capture of the energy policy of Croatia and the energy infrastructure of Croatia by the neighbouring countries of Hungary. I would remind you that at the beginning of the covid crisis, the closure of the Rijeka Refinery was announced for 4 months, with the explanation of Minister Coric that due to the covid demand for derivatives fell 20%, so we can close the Rijeka refinery. At the same time, executive directors of Hungarian companies say their refinery will also work at 100% capacity in Slovakia. After that, there is an agreement on the export of Croatian oil to Hungary. However, it is not only a problem that we did not process and market oil ourselves. But the problem was, especially once here in the assembly, what I was saying was that this oil was sold at a lower value than that oil on the world market, given the categorization of the quality of that oil. With only one month in February 2021 lost about $60m to $80m, only on the whole, and profited by who, Hungary. When we talked about the problems of Refinery Sisak, when we talked about the problems of oil processing in Croatia, we asked about export problems among other Minister Coric how much the cost of the refinery of the Refinery Sisak decommission and all the facilities on land and at sea in Ina's property that stopped working or planned to stop working for the next 5 years and whether he knew how much the Italians were paid to buy the platform and whether the cost of expensive decommissions would remain on the burden of Croatian citizens. We never got an answer. It is the same legacy of Minister Coric. We were wondering if, in Budapest, he talked about expanding LNG's capacity in favour of Hungary, we didn't get an answer. What we do know in the meantime is that the Hungarians have purchased one important part of LNG's capacity. I'll tell you something else interesting about the political legacy. When we asked how we would do it in this crisis and where we would store the gas and how we would secure the gas supply, we were convinced that it was settled because we had LNG. When we asked the question but LNG capacities were sold out to private companies in advance, so there are contracts between them and Hungarians, we also asked what about the storage facilities of the main land warehouse. It's okay. Today, I am getting official confirmation in the official document of the Ministry of Economy and Environmental Protection, where they address the European Commission's views that our government will not be able to provide storage facilities in a manner prescribed by the European Commission because what, storage sites have been sold out, the capacities have been sold out to private market players by 2026. Have you ever heard that from former Minister Coric, have you heard it from the new Minister Filipovic, you haven't. You heard everything was gonna be okay. And we didn't get that key information, and then we get it at the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of some European Commission directive. When we talked about the importance of investing in renewable energy sources being owned by citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the state, we were then told that this is a market economy and that private investments must be present in renewable energy sources. Okay. What are we going to do with such a policy? It's the same thing we've been led to with that kind of gas access. Same thing. Until we can manage that market, strategic supplies, warehouses, etc., because there is a private market and private investors have purchased capacities and what we are going to do now. This will happen to us with renewables in 10 years if the policy of Tomislav Čorić continues to encourage, instead of the civil energy we have been talking about for 2 years, large investments in renewable energy sources, large solar power plants, wind power plants of the Krš Fallen, which are the hands of private investors, and then I will ask you what part of our energy infrastructure is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the state. What will be the share of our ownership in 10 years, and how will we manage it? And now at the end of this political legacy left to us in the field of energy, all the affairs that have taken place, Minister Coric is becoming a vice governor. There is an interesting provision in the Law on NHB Vice Governors or members of the Council, which is that at that time they must not be parliamentary representatives or at the office of government. There, it won't be right now. But you tell me that the CNB is an independent institution when the governors are their former ministers who were ministers or parliamentary representatives with a mandate on ice until the day before yesterday. How is this an independent institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108847	Thank you, too, for your accuracy, for your timing. Mr. Marijan Pavliček, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108848	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I live better than the minister. This famous verse of Mladena Grdovic will best describe the character and work of Tomislav Čorić after tomorrow's vote and appointment to the place of vice governor. Tomislav Coric for 5 and a half years in the government of the Republic of Croatia, initially as Minister of Labour and Pension System, and for the last two years as Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. I will not deal here with numerous affairs that are beautiful with Minister Coric because I believe in Croatian institutions, I believe in their professionality and independence and I believe that they will deal with both USKOK and DORH with its potential affairs. But I'll deal with his work at the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy should be Ministry No. 1 in the Republic of Croatia which should create preconditions for further economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia was once an industrial state, today we are primarily a service country and tourism. All major investments of the Republic of Croatia have been bypassed for years in a wide port. The Ministry of Economy's task to create preconditions for the entry of foreign investors, to create new jobs, primarily in production activities, to enter greenfield investments. 2020 but when Tomislav Ćoric took over the mandate and managed well the Ministry of Economy's portfolio directly foreign investment, foreign investments in the Republic of Croatia amounted to $1.3 billion. At the same time, the same year 2020. Foreign direct investments in the Republic of Serbia amounted to as much as $3.4 billion, and in the Republic of Hungary as much as $4.3 billion, not to mention the kind of investments. So we primarily invested in tourism infrastructure, in telecommunications infrastructure, and the smallest part in producing new jobs and opening new jobs. So what large foreign production company has entered the Republic of Croatia in the last few years? Not one. We hear little, little, that the auto industry is going to Slovakia, Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia, and Croatia is bypassing everyone in the broad port because we are primarily very unstable to invest, because we have a bad business climate, because we have corruption that appears in all the pores of our society, especially in politics, especially in the top of politics. And what will this Tomislav Coric remain remembered for? His greatest achievement is painting with young activist Greta during a meeting when she thinks she was here in Zagreb and thanks to all of that, his ability will become a Vice Governor of the CNB, he will have about 40,000 kunas paid net, while most of our workers will continue to work for 4,000 to 5,000 kuna. And what picture are you sending to the Croatian youth? What image do you send to ordinary little people? Well, this is exactly the kind of thing people are leaving your country for, just because of this kind of injustice, people are leaving. It is clear that you have the right to set up your man, but set up a man who is capable, who has shown himself in his work, and this is Tomislav Coric definitely not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u108849	That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The continuation of work is at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow, the proposal for a law implementing the EU Council Regulation since June 2019. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial disputes and on matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction. A very important topic, please come, tell all the public to come, because that's the bill. 278. Voting at 12:00 and say that please. Thank you very much and rest. The session was interrupted at 6:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110406	and now we continue to declare the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. In addition to the draft amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2022 and 2023 and 2024, proposals were submitted for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2022 and projection of plans for 2023 and 2024 with a justification for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environmental Protection Fund, Energy Efficiency, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Motorways, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by: The Committee on Finance and State Budget, Boška Ban Vlahek, MP Damir Bajs, MP Stjepan Kovac, representative Barbara Antolic Vupora, representative Marijana Puljak, representative Michel Jakšić, representative Marija Selak Rasdić, representative Miro Bulj, representative Ante Kujundzic, representative Katarina Peović, representative Andreja Marić, representatives Ljubica Lukačić and Siniša Jenkac, representatives Branka Juričev-Martinčev, Josip Begonja, Hrvoje Zekanovic and Franco Vidović, Club of Representatives of the Green-left Block and Club of Representatives of SDP. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first are amendments to the general section. With us is Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinašić, we are starting with Amendment No 1, i.e. the 1st amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110407	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-Presidents of the HS, honourable MPs and MPs. Amendment No 1 of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110408	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 2 The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, here's the show, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110409	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110410	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. We are starting with amendments to the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment No. 3 Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, please welcome your testimony, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110411	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted since the possibility of electronic voting is not prescribed. We consider it unnecessary to provide funds for its introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110412	Thank you very much. Representative Selak Rasludić, here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110413	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, there is no obstacle, except for the lack of your goodwill to regulate this matter legally in a way that improves the democratic processes of the Republic of Croatia and finally introduces an electronic vote. Of course, there is a substance problem, which is that we have a fundamental goal of developing democracy in Croatia, and you have a fundamental goal of preventing democracy in Croatia, and not only these advanced processes such as electronic voting, but also these common ones that are already legal, such as the referendum, and then we have calculated that perhaps, given that you have saved up a referendum that will not be held, and that the law has been followed and interpreted properly, it would certainly have been maintained and that our citizens' will is respected, you could have been able to reroute these funds to show your own progress in electronic voting. So we certainly will not accept this argument and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Croatia needs more, not less democracy as you keep trying to realise within your mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110414	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment when the conditions are met. We continue with the amendments to the budget section relating to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, amendment number 4 of the Green-left bloc's representatives' clubs, please welcome state secretaries, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110415	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. It is about the Office for Associations, so as an expert service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it provides sufficient resources for the implementation of measures under its jurisdiction, and in the context of the implementation of the action measure in the new Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period '21. until 30. The funds are provided for the implementation of the education programme in, on criteria and criteria of grant and sponsorship to civil society associations. As regards otherwise funds aimed at combating and preventing corruption, they shall be ensured by the activities of other competent national authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110416	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, colleague Urša Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110417	Thank you. Oh, my God. So, quite clearly and well-known that in Croatia corruption is also the first problem for the functioning of the state, the first reason for emigration, the enormous emigration of young people and potential generations, so it's quite surprising that the government places out 16 500 kuna, 16 500 kuna therefore, 2,000 more than last year, which is less than one salary of state officials. By the perception of corruption we are in one of the first places in Europe and I don't know anymore after all the affairs we have had in Croatia, I'm running out of words to explain this amendment and ask on behalf of the Green-Left bloc to increase the funds to at least 2 million which we don't think is enough, but at least it's a signal that this government really thinks I'm counting on corruption because I'm guessing that with 16 500 kuna in a year, corruption is just going to grow, so with this article of 16 500 kuna we're actually working on how corruption develops. Is that in the interest of the Republic of Croatia? We don't think so, and we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110418	Thank you very much. They'll vote on the amendment. We're moving on. Amendment No. 5 MPs of Maria Selak Rasdic, State Secretary, manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110419	The amendment is not accepted. It is thematically similar to the previous one, so with the same explanation, I would only repeat that this is about the Office for Associations as an expert service of the Government which provides for education on the criteria and criteria of the award of donations and sponsorship to civil society associations, and funds related to the fight against corruption are provided at the positions of other competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110420	Thank you. Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, additional clarification of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110421	I do not accept the argument and ask that this amendment be voted on. This amendment, which I have proposed when the budget is passed, you have also rejected it, and now I see that it is proposed by other clubs, which, of course, is good and that I support it. I was then, we could say, psychic. Here, I predicted that the government would have to vent and that you would really need the means to fight corruption. And of course, you wouldn't listen to me, and you didn't approve of those funds. And now I would warn you that although you have made Coric into the CNB, we are obviously not going to investigate in due course what may be one of the reasons why you are significantly reducing these funds, we remain here in Paladin, we are left with that Ministry of Agriculture and many other still vulnerable and problematic points in your government, which is why please do not allow me to once again be psychic, to warn you that you will need these funds in advance. It will also be easier for you and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to do one of these two things or in advance allocate funds to fight corruption, which will look at the current sequence of events obviously be needed either to finally legalize your practice and add a special item to the budget, funds to fight corruption, and then you can redefine the funds there and corruption can continue to flourish just as so far has been the case in the Republic because the third is not a real possibility, and some of these two will certainly happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110422	I'm sorry I didn't hear you say at the beginning you're looking for a vote? It is. We'll vote on the amendment. We continue on, the 6th amendment of the same representative, Representative Selak Rasudiæ. Here's a statement from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110423	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. In this year, the office, as the holder of the implementation of measures under the new national plan, as well as the Law on Gender Equality as well as on the basis of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence, will place emphasis on promoting knowledge and awareness of gender equality and protection against discrimination through the organisation of a number of round tables and public stands, campaigns, research in collaboration with research institutions, printing relevant publications, etc. For all of the above, in accordance with its capacities and in relation to the number of employees, the Office planned sufficient resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110424	Thank you. My colleague Selak Raspoudic explained the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110425	I do not accept the argument, I will ask that this amendment be voted on. What's this about? So as it started soon, we will celebrate the 10th anniversary of not adopting a national gender equality plan, and I remember it as if it were today when we talked about the Resistance and recovery plan, so I warned you that there was no gender equality in it at all, which was one of the necessary demands of the European Commission to approve the funds. And then you thought that in the final version... gender equality in all aspects of our Resistance and recovery plan to attract the necessary resources. In practice, however, you can see that this policy still doesn't interest you at all as president of the Committee on Gender Equality as long as it is on this function, and it is in my power to at least warn publicly that we are nearing the 10th anniversary of the plan that we still do not have, although we deceive not only the Croatian but also the European public to bring it in, and it is a prerequisite for us to realise the funds we have decided to attract from the EU. So this is one big shame for this government and the one before, and what you're saying is that this year is finally going to happen, so here's what we've been hearing for almost a decade. Yes, I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I'm just encouraging you to do what you wrote on paper in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110426	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. You're a free secretary of state. I now call upon the Secretary of State of State, Mr. Branko Hrg, who will show that amendments have been made to the budget section relating to the Ministry of Defence. Amendment No. 7 Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110427	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. For the development of cyber capability, funds are planned in the state budget for the '22s. In the light of the planned dynamics of the implementation of the project. Spiritual care activities are planned to provide spiritual care to staff of the Ministry of Armed Forces in accordance with the contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on the custody of Catholic believers of members of the armed forces and the regular service of the Republic of Croatia so that the funds cannot be reduced in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110428	Thank you. Additional explanation of the amendment by colleague Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110429	Thank you. So, the threat of national security by cyber attacks today is certainly one of the biggest and most real threats to the national security system, and it is absolutely clear to all of us, and that is why we are repeatedly asking for these funds to increase because these attacks occur daily, often and it is necessary to strengthen the MORH precisely on that side. And, of course, the development of cybersecurity will certainly mean one great potential for the development of the IT industry domestically, it should not be forgotten, as well as other major investment in military equipment is aimed at imports and that is one of the reasons why cyber security needs to be increased. I would say today, unfortunately, we are now following a live war in Ukraine, and I would say that increasing cyber security is immediately something more important than the spiritual care we can get both in churches and in other institutions, and cyber security is what will probably save us if necessary. Thank you very much, and that is why we are asking for a natural vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110430	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I call on Secretary of State Tatjana Vukbratović Spasojevic, the Deputy Secretary of State of State of the Central State for Reconstruction and Residential Care. We're starting with Amendment No. 8 MPs, Katarina Peovic. Here you go, Madam Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110431	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110432	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110433	Respect, I welcome all present. The amendment is not accepted because the planned financial resources under the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 are sufficient as well as the limits and projections we have for '23. And '24. The plans amount to 4 million and 700 thousand kuna, this budget for this year and planned, if you followed earlier, was significantly lower. The goal is in fact to increase by the end of the year the state fund, or housing fund, which will provide housing care to victims of domestic violence. And we think this is enough for now and we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110434	The amendment is not accepted. You wish to further explain the amendment to your colleague Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110435	Of course I do. So this argument of yours, of course, is true, there were a lot less resources in the last budget of 600 and a few thousand kunas. And then at the address of several of us MPs and MPs increased these funds significantly to 5 million kunas, but be careful, in fact, by this act of removing these funds from this figure which was really important, you prove two things. One thing is that you don't actually think in that segment to do what you're supposed to do because 5 million kunas are insufficient funds to make it happen. And the second thing that's also not good for the state budget that let's say at the beginning here at the beginning here's my presentation of the amendments is turning the hollow into empty but within the frames of what's meant it's a real, real strategy. But what you're showing here is that you have items in the budget and that may not be your responsibility, but it's certainly Minister Maric who actually serves as a cashier. And then it's actually going to be put into one item, and then, if necessary, in the rebalancing of those items, it's just taking as much as it takes for something else because it's not going to be resolved by the end of the day or really cared for by the victims of domestic violence, and I'm warning it's everyone who suggested this amendment, and we've already proposed it in the last rebalancing, so last budget. Everyone was saying the increase in domestic violence really happened after a period of time, a long period of crowns, all indicators are alarming and it really takes a lot of money to get rid of that picture, but it can't be solved in that way that it actually does, and even said extremely surprised we were so when you raised that item, you increase the funds, and then you don't actually do what you should do with the really sufficient or somewhat sufficient resources that were raised in this the budget at 12 months. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110436	Thank you, you're asking, okay? We'll vote on the amendment. Thank you, Madam Deputy Secretary of State. We continue with the amendments to the budget section concerning the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society. The amendments on behalf of the Central State Office will be made by State Secretary Bernard Gršić. Good afternoon. We are on our way, Amendment number 9 of Maria Selak Rasdic. Here's a statement from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110437	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the above-mentioned project financing activity is an EU grant contract whereby the elements of the project and the content and costs are defined, approved and signed in the current contract and any change to that contract would require approval from the intermediate body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110438	Thank you. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, not an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110439	I do not accept the argument and ask that this amendment be voted on. The first is unclear if it would require approval, which is the problem, approval if it can be requested then it can also be obtained back. Secondly, this way of discussing the budget is extremely unserious. Very often we listen to explanations like this item cannot be changed. If the items cannot be changed, or if you have to make this clear in this shrub proposal for rebalancing that you offer or give false explanations and we have the right to change all items within the state budget. In order to have too much discussion in which amendments, regardless of whether or not you reject them, we need to have a clear explanation because we have no insight into your contracts which are items that cannot be changed, which items cannot be changed without listening to vague explanations, such as asking for approval. It doesn't mean anything to me, you can look for him, you can look for him. And what was I doing in this particular amendment? In fact, according to the previous policy message, which is that we need to improve democracy in the Republic of Croatia and the electronic vote this amendment also requires the improvement of the electronic system of the Republic of Croatia and digital literacy. I'll remind you why it's necessary. What happened to the census and the debacle that followed when the system didn't function in time? What about the E-Citizen system? What about digitizing the education that was necessary during the root crisis? What about all the other processes that in today's very challenging time require electronic access to different databases not to mention unregulated land books and everything that has been killing our citizens for years. So I really think that the funds need to be rerouted for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110440	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment when the conditions are met. Amendment number 10, nominates the same representative, counterpart Selak Rasludic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110441	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, this is about a project that was to be financed from the Programme, the Operational Programme Effective human potentials in 2014 and 2020 which was not agreed on, therefore, necessary. The activities will be carried out through the recovery and resistance mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110442	Thank you. My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ your indication or additional explanation of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110443	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. If I understand you correctly, there is an item in the state budget in which there are certain resources for a project that is not signed or not realised. So what's he doing as an item in the state budget? So there's an item that doesn't exist. Well, it's good to know about the Croatian public, too, clearly. This is getting more interesting. Okay, my amendment to the non-existent item in the state budget will ask that there is an existing vote in order to further underline the obvious amateurism in the proposal of the state budget because unlike perhaps some MPs, I have indeed passed all the items of the state budget although I now do not know why I did it when I see that what it writes does not necessarily correspond to Croatia's reality. Namely, I have also asked here to raise the digital competences of the population, to ensure the resources because we need to be aware of Croatian reality, and it is such that many of our citizens still do not know how to use the e-Citizen system, nor is it familiar with all the comparative advantages and ways of using other electronic available bases, and we should go more proactively towards the residents, so that all those bases that we have developed, and as I said earlier, we need to improve, are really being used by our citizens. Here, therefore, I remain on this non-existent amendment to the non-existent.../incomprehensible/... existing amendment to the non-existent item and I will demand that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110444	Of course we'll vote on him. Let's move on, Mr. Secretary of State, I think you're done with your.../incomprehensible/ What? [[Intruder: One more.]] Yeah, we got another one, sorry. Amendment No. 11, MP Selak Rasudić, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110445	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, as in the previous case, it is the state budget activity which has an amount of 0 because the project is not agreed between 2014 and 2020 and its co-financing is not secured and the activities will be carried out through the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110446	Thank you. Additional explanation of the amendments, colleagues Rasdic, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110447	I do not accept the argument and I will ask that this amendment be voted on because again we have items in the budget that are non-existent and for which the funds are not provided, so you can simply ease the budget and remove items that will not have the resources because the budget is called a budget, because it is usually not 0 kuna, at least for us who would like to follow some logic of things. Here I asked, of course, to strengthen the awareness of media digital literacy, I believe that it is not necessary to explain why it is necessary, we are today really in a kind of virtual reality where even wars are won on the basis of media propaganda, that both the focus of alleged or nominal government policies is on separating fakes from true news, and if we really want to have credible information in practice, not manipulation, the syntagm of credible manipulation, again into someone's political profit, which is often happening, we need to develop the media and digital literacy of our citizens with items that exist in the budget through the account so that they have some resources assigned to themselves, otherwise we might think that the budget of the essay, and not the account on which we will use the funds available in the Republic of Croatia for public purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110448	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. And now we're done. Let's move on. Amendments to the Central State Office for Demography and Youth, with us is Deputy State Secretary Mr. Ante Babic, good day and we are starting with amendments. The 12th Amendment, the Honorable Representative Selak Rasdic, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110449	Respected HS Vice-Presidents, respected MPs, the amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to achieve the planned measures. Given the fact that the funds were spent in '21. Mr. and Planned Activities in '22. g. the funds under this activity are intended to finance projects of parenting organisations, in line with the already published call for the registration of projects of associations for 2022, and are sufficient for the planned number of projects. This remaining part of the funding corresponds to the continued annual activities of the Central State Office for Demography and Youth and Public Sensitisation activities on the role and importance of parenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110450	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110451	I do not accept the argument, I will ask that this amendment be voted on. If those funds were sufficient and the policies were well realised, we today would not have to talk about demographics as a fundamental problem and the challenge facing the Republic of Croatia and in continuity. So here I asked to increase funds for demographic policies, it's clear in which direction they can be spent. Here, but also on the trail of these currently offered measures, we don't need leave for fathers who are minimal for just 10 days, we need a full maternity leave fee within the entire year of a maximum salary break, and we need, not now, 7.5 thousand kuna, what we are up for, and a political, unique child's allowance as a measure that will encourage families and make life easier for them with children. So anyway, I can't accept this argument, I'm going to ask that the amendment be voted on. The funds allocated to long-term demographic policies are quite insufficient, as we see, and since these policies are not realised when announced, and now that some of them will be realised, today we are reading media inscriptions, they are not realised within the scope that was foreseen during pre-election promises. So certainly more funding for demographic policies if we want to have a sustainable economic system, i.e. the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110452	Excuse me. We'll vote on the amendment. Let's move on. 13th Amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, please welcome Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110453	This amendment, I apologize. This amendment is also not accepted. [[All right, all right. Here you go.]] In fact, most of the funds with the above activities are intended through support programmes and municipalities and cities of the Republic of Croatia in '22. g. and from Group 1 to 4 of the Development Index, the financial resources have already been agreed in advance with the beneficiaries of financial support and relate to the period from 1.9.2021 to 31.08.2022. This remaining part of the financial resources from the activities you listed corresponds to the continued annual activities and the implementation of the measures of the demographic policy of the Central State Office for Demography and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110454	Thank you. counterpart Selak-Raspudić additional explanation of the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110455	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I asked for additional funds to be allocated for demographic policies in the Republic of Croatia and from this budget item as well as these previous ones as I explained in detail. In any case, if you do not want to allocate additional funds, and we will all agree that this is the most serious long-term problem facing the Republic of Croatia, then you might at least consider that the existing means are better directed, because let's say one of the demographic measures that you've greatly praised in the last period, which is that through financial support you can enable the return of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia to have almost no success, so here if you do not want to allocate additional funds for what I have previously led you to, at least please reroute these existing funds to more efficient projects that will have a real, more concrete effect on the demographic revitalisation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110456	Thank you. Thank you. We'll have to vote. The 14th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110457	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted either. In fact, the planned funds are sufficient to achieve the planned measures. Given the fact that funds were spent in 2021 but also planned activities in 2022. So, contracts with associations were signed at the end of 2021, and funding projects for the year 2022 which you can actually see on our website and in one part it is already covered. The planned amount provides sufficient funding for these projects by the end of 2022. Prevention activities are also carried out through regular programmes and activities of clubs and youth centres, as well as local and regional info centres which are also co-financed from the budget of the Central State Office for Demography and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110458	Thank you. My colleagues Selak-Raspudić additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110459	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Which is exactly what it's about. It's about preventing violence among young people, a very serious problem. However, recently in Croatia, we had the opportunity to follow up on a tragic case of a boy who was attacked in a school environment, which is reportedly still under way. Violence among young people is a serious problem that we are increasingly facing, which is also potent in the situation that we witnessed in the past, and this is a corona crisis where we can also, unfortunately, follow up on a thing that is hardly at all talked about, an increase in the mental illness of young people, and even suicides especially girls under 12. With all this information in mind, and I am actively following and looking for MIP statistics, I think it is necessary to provide additional means to prevent violence among young people especially, and I will stress that, given that you have reduced these funds. So I'm asking for one minimum to go back to that previous projection, and of course you'd be happy to secure additional funds as I've already pointed out. Well, we have recently witnessed a case where it is obvious that not only are young people in a circle of violence, but also that the competent authorities, or those closest to them, cannot recognize this violence as a quality process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110460	Thank you. We will also vote on this amendment. Thank you, Deputy Secretary of State. Let's move on. Amendments to the budget section relating to the Ministry of the Interior. With us is Secretary of State Zarko Katic, good afternoon. The 15th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasudiæ, please choose an explanation or an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110461	Thank you, Madam Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Amendment number 15. The government doesn't accept. Since the project of support for the work and equipment of the police relates exclusively to the source of funding under paragraph 52. – Other assistance and this source is used only for projects agreed with the aid provider. The interior ministry has invested in police equipment for the last five years, which is a matter of serious access. We appreciate your intention, however, and the State Inspectorate, in its proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2022 and the 2023 and 2024 projections, planned funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorates. Therefore, it cannot be accepted to take funds from one item and to move to the item as you have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110462	Okay. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Your colleague Selak Rasudiæ would like to say something extra? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110463	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I was looking for an extra million kuna to support the work and equipment of the police. The police are doing extremely sensitive work in inadequate and underpaid conditions, and as Assembly representatives we meet the police daily because our place of work, unfortunately our square is still unjustly separated from the citizens of the city of Zagreb, the Republic of Croatia and other tourists who would like to walk perhaps the most beautiful square in the city of Zagreb by Markov Square. Given that we meet them daily, I really feel a personal responsibility to say something about their status. Inadequate wages are well known to everyone, but let's just say the officers who keep us here are really in inadequate conditions in boxing that are cold in winter and too hot in summer. So there is also a concrete example of what we face directly and at a wider level the way our police are equipped. Many reasons to spend this additional million kuna to ensure better quality resources for their work, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110464	Of course we'll vote. Let's move on, Amendment number 16. Green-left block representatives' club. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110465	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment because it is about EU projects and co-financing related to civil protection and the amount of planned funds in line with the real projects and plans that are being implemented. I stress the importance of ensuring sufficient resources so that these changes and additions to the budget and are planned to prevent illegal migration and therefore could not be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110466	Comrade Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110467	Yes, so we in this country have witnessed two enormous disasters, two earthquakes and a pandemic, and I don't think we should waste any more words to explain the importance of the civil protection system. In addition to the natural disasters, there are real climate changes that will not happen but are happening. Here, just yesterday, unfortunately, we once again witnessed the enormous destruction and consequences of fighting both the weather and the tornado in Sisak. So, the civil protection system is something that we absolutely need, and we are constantly looking for an increase in funds for this sector. I must say that we are pleased, we understand that the government cannot accept our amendments, then in secret increases, yet increases the money for civil protection. It's okay for us, we understand that it's easier for you, but the main thing is that something's going on, but it's not happening enough. There is again season, tourist season, hot season and summer fires on the coast, and we still have no tourist season, so we don't have an emergency helicopter service, we don't have enough funds for fire departments and for civil protection, and we think it's simply necessary. But until the next rebalancing we are confident that the government will secretly re-enlarge the funds itself, and our amendment refuses, but we still insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110468	Thank you, and we will vote of course on this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's move on, the next budget part is related to the Ministry of Culture and Media, with us is Secretary of State Kresimir Partl, good day to you. Amendment number 17. Green-left block representatives' club. Please be clear about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110469	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing of the programme for the protection and conservation of cultural heritage are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period up to 2022 to 2024. Additional funds are provided from the recovery and resilience mechanism and through the multiannual financial framework. The funds for the restoration of audiovisual works have been provided through the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and the Croatian National Archives programmes, and additional funds will be provided through the multiannual financial framework as well as in the past period when we have provided 48 million kuna through the digitalisation project, both for the Croatian State Archives and for the Croatian Digitalisation and Restaurant of Film Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110470	So Amendment 17 is not accepted by the government. My colleagues, Gamulin Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110471	Ah, hello, how are you? We talk about the same subject again, and as we talk about each other from month to month, movies fail. And you know it as well as I do that movies fail because chemical processes are what they are and they're unstoppable. You can't digitize anything if you haven't recovered. The pace of restoration of all-night classic films is 2 per year. I would remind you that in four years, and Minister Ouljen wrote that she would certainly be worried since '17. Until '21. Right around the restoration of Croatia's classic film, Serbia was restored to 28, in Macedonia 32, and each of these films had its new premiere, to celebrate its new life. It's the way a country takes care of its cultural heritage. And what are we doing in Croatia? We allow us to run out of classics like Bauer, such as Mimica, such as Zafranović, Grlic, who wrote you three letters. We allow us to disappear Fabian Sovagovic, to disappear Ana Karic, Relja Basic, forever. Forever. And you know it very well, sir. I ask you, are you ready to take responsibility for the disappearance of the film heritage? Are you ready to take that responsibility? I am indeed calling from this place the Ministry of Culture responsible for the disappearance of a total film, film heritage Croatian classic film. And of course I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110472	And of course we'll vote on the amendment. Let's move on, next amendment, Amendment number 18 of Honored Representative Mira Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State. Your testimony on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110473	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. So the Ministry of Culture acts in accordance with the applicable rules, above all, of the Law on the financing of public needs, in order for a programme to be approved to apply for a competition, it should be given its opinion by the Council for Cultural Goods. If such a application is submitted, it will be considered within the framework of the applicable rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110474	Thank you. The amendment means the 18th is not accepted, my colleague Bulj, here's an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110475	Thank you. A man of the stadium of the Football Club Hajduk, a human lipotica in 2015 your Ministry of Culture wrote down a list of protected goods of culture, the roof was devastated endangering the lives of our fans, here today is the Finale Cup we expect this title today, Cili Split, Dalmatia, all the fans of Hajduk from Ilock to Dubrovnik. Every year I propose this amendment, the roof endangers the lives of people, fans, viewers, so I see no reason why I see no such relationship between the central state and football club Hajduk. Hajduk will live forever without you, he will and without you be the strongest club in the Republic of Croatia and love for Hajduk is born. Hajduk is an institution and you have no right to mock the NK Hajduk. Have you ever been to the Man? Did you see how that works? And Hajduk is the first club to throw a chess club back in Australia, the first club without a star, Djakic, while you're yelling. Hajduk is a club that lives in our hearts, Hajduk is a human being something that will remain for all generations. Your smile and fellow Djakic is a smile that mocks Torcid who has given the greatest pain in the Homeland War perhaps of all the cheerleading groups and the highest number of deaths in the Homeland War, making fun of these institutions is destroying identity but targeted. So invest something in Dalmatia that you have forgotten invest in Hajduk, but Hajduk lives forever. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110476	That's right, GV. You're asking for a vote, I assume, from my colleague Bully, you're asking for a vote on the amendment? What? ... that eternal vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. We will also vote on this amendment No. 18. Thank you. We're moving on. We will now be joined by State Secretary Tugomir Majdak because we are moving on an amendment related to the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go, good day. 19th Amendment, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. Here's the secretary of state, please read the amendment number 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110477	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. The amendment is not accepted. For the implementation of most of the activities envisaged by the plan to prevent and reduce food waste 2019-2022. the funds are secured under the NPOO of the Republic of Croatia, specifically from the measure Improving the food donation system in the Republic of Croatia totals 32 million kuna. In this context, a support programme for the infrastructure equipment of the food bank and of the intermediary in the food donation chain was published on the basis of which a public invitation worth 30 million kuna will be issued by the end of June of this year. Also in preparation is the launch of an Internet platform to prevent food waste and upgrade of the IT system for food donation and will be accessible to voluntary food waste prevention agreements. By the end of 2023. Annual educational campaigns will be carried out to reduce over-cutting of food and to implement projects of infrastructure equipment of the food bank and of intermediaries in the food donation chain. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are secured in the division of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the settlement of the action of 14 budgetary users who are organisationally classified within the division of 0.20 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and are aimed at coordinating activities to achieve the objectives of the government's 2020-2020 programme. coordination of activities for the implementation of NPOO 2021-2026 and activities related to the introduction of the euro as official currency in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110478	Thank you. So Amendment 19 is not accepted by the government. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ would you like to further explain? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110479	I'm going to insist on this amendment, I'm not accepting an explanation, and I'm going to ask it to be voted on. Currently before this galloping inflation, a quarter of the Croatian population was at risk of poverty, the figure will grow dramatically. We can assume that we are also cynically expressing that we may not need funds to donate food because no one will have extra food that you could donate in view of the fact that inflation is in key life needs, and not that general inflation is already two-digit. What exactly is this about? I believe that one of the key policies to focus on is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this challenging period for living standards, for the survival of our citizens, is exactly the system of food banks, or the improvement of the food donation system. How is the situation on the agenda right now? Also in 2019. you have received a detailed plan from the relevant scientific institutions to create food banks still in 2022. It didn't approach their realization, and you didn't predict them until 2023. and only through the Resilience and Recovery Plan, which, as a deus ex machine, will solve all problems in the Republic of Croatia by the time we realize that someone has messed up and taken funds from that fund within the EU, so we may have to return and pay out of our own budget. Only two major trade chains are now included in the e-donation system. The whole system generally has some underprivileged 60 users. Therefore, in order for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to survive the next period, all excess food must be quality and discreetly directed to the necessary citizens, this can only be done by increasing this item and by final implementation of the food bank in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110480	Thank you very much. We'll vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Before we continue with the amendments, I will ask all MPs and representatives to welcome our guests today who are here at the gallery, who are students. OŠ Ružičnjak from Zagreb and the girl of the Women's volleyball club Nasice, good day to you once again, welcome and welcome you on behalf of all MPs and representatives. [[Applause]] Thank you. We're moving on with the amendments. With us, State Secretary Monumenta Djuric is in front of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Here you go. Amendment No. 20 distinguished representatives of Boske Ban Vlahek, please welcome the secretary of state, please show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110481	Honored Vice President, esteemed MPs. Amendment No. 20 The Croatian Government's view is that it does not accept it for a reason because the planned amount on this amendment of 379 million kuna is sufficient to fulfil all contractual commitments based on co-financing of projects agreed by the EU funds, from the Perspective '14-20. And there's no need for additional funds in '22. In addition, the funds provided for in position K-260056 relate to the already agreed necessary constructions, i.e. building adaptations and the planned funds cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110482	Amendment 20 means the government does not accept. Dear Representative Ban Vlahek, would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110483	I want and I want to thank you. The project, reconstruction and revitalisation and fortification of the Old Town of Čakovec, whose beneficiary of Međimurje County, includes the revitalisation and reconstruction of the largest cultural heritage monument in Međimurje County and feudal heritage in Croatia. You are refusing the amendment persistently several times already, I regularly endure them, but allow me to quote Prime Minister Plenkovic from the opening of July 13th 2021 precisely from the opening of this valuable heritage in Međimurje County, so please listen, I want to thank all those who contributed to this phenomenal project. This is another confirmation of how useful Croatia's EU membership is because the 85% project is funded by European funds and represents one of the most visible and qualitative European projects. We'll help, of course, that project deserves state aid, that's where the financial structure was breached, and I told the mayor we'd help. We won't ignore a project this beautiful and important, we'll find the means to do it. He ignored the prime minister as he ignored the request for co-financing sent by Posavac Mayor on July 26th 2021. Given the hope that you will not ignore this national important project and that you will listen to your Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, who has promised that generous aid of 6 million kuna, so that this financial cost can be completed and that the financial structure will be closed, I demand that the above-mentioned amendment be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110484	We'll vote on the amendment, of course. Thank you very much. We're moving on. We will now be joined by the State Secretary from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Tomislav Mihotić, good day to you. Here we go. Amendment No. 21 Advocacy Bridge Club, please read on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110485	Good afternoon. Hello, everyone. The amendment is not accepted. The financing of projects carried out by local and regional self-government is not within the competence of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and it is not possible to plan funds under the division of 65 of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for the implementation of these and similar projects. Otherwise, the Ministry of Culture said that any further reduction and such insufficient funds for culture would question not only sustainability but also the existence of culture and art in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110486	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Mosta Club, an additional explanation that colleague Selak Rasdic will, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110487	Don't worry, to be absolutely clear right now, we didn't ask for funds for anything uncultural, though. It may seem to someone to defend the amendments as barking a month or pure larpurartism, however, regardless of your persistent rejections, I believe that our basic task is to propose policies that would allow for a better distribution of budgets because this is what makes us serious politicians. Therefore, regardless of this ignoring which is present and which is likely to follow in all other rejections of the amendments, we will continue to insist on the implementation of our policies. This is where I asked to approve the funds for a single building, the Toad Complex. In fact, the mayor of Rijeka has made a decision to call and conduct a public tender for the sale of land for the construction of a multi-purpose building, Complex Frog. The total area of the building particle Complex Žabica owned by the city of Rijeka and TD Rijeka plus on which the construction of a multi-purpose building of the Complex Frog, which includes a bus terminal, garage and business and commercial content is 14 810 square meters. The value of the property determines not only the location in the city center but also the fact that a new road road will pass the Complex Frog which will connect the D403 road with the city center. The sale of this land and the concession on the waterfront would have made the entire move from the port of Baroš to the railway station into the hands of private owners, which in the long run cannot be in the interest of the people of Rijeka, so we are looking for a state subsidy of the project Complex of Frogica to avoid the sale of land in the city center and for one of the biggest burdens of the local and executive authorities after 2 decades [[Intruder: Thank you.]] failed attempts, finally made. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110488	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment No. 22 representatives of Boška Ban Vlahek, here's your proof.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110489	The amendment is not accepted. The DC3 project is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads, which was not planned in the financial plan for the period '22-'24. The project can be included in the new financial period 21'-'27. The funds planned under the price or fuel charge activities for HH Infrastructure are intended to finance railway infrastructure, and will be used as a priority for building and necessary investment maintenance of certain railway lines, following any further reduction of these assets could endanger the safety of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110490	Thank you very much. The amendment means the government doesn't accept. My colleagues Ban Vlahek want an additional explanation? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110491	Thank you. First of all, it would make an excuse, pronounced Nedelisce and Puscina. The state road DC3 on the part between Čakovec and Varazdin mostly passes through the populated area, and the most critical shares are the centres of Nedelisce and Puscina where there is complete construction on both sides of the road with a large number of predominantly home connections. All mentioned significantly reduces the safety of traffic on the existing road leading to the need to move the state road DC3 i.e. building a bypass of Nedelisce and Puscina. In doing so, the basis of the intended requirement is to avoid a critical share of the passage through populated areas i.e. A security aspect. The construction of the bypass would significantly reduce total traffic on the existing road, especially transit. The construction and use of the Nedelišće and Pusćina bypass would avoid the current collage of transit and local traffic that adversely affect the level of traffic services and safety of transport participants. Since you said in your statement that you would find funds in some future period, I would have asked nicely for a vote on this amendment, and I hope that in the near time of the year, two will find the means for this important project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110492	Thank you, of course we will vote on this amendment which the government does not accept. Next amendment, amendment number 23 from Branka Juričev Martinchev, Josip Begonja and Hrvoje Zekanovic and Frank Vidovic. The government's obvious, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110493	The amendment is accepted. A570333 provides security transport standards at the airports of the Republic of Croatia with a new sub-group of 363 aid within the general budget and a new plan for this sub-total amounting to EUR 200,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110494	The amendment has been accepted, so it becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 24th Amendment of MP Antoliæ Vupor. The government's obvious. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110495	The amendment is not accepted. The funds needed to build and maintain state roads are planned and provided in the financial plan of the Croatian Road Society. In view of the fact that no merger point has been agreed at the border with the Republic of Slovenia and the connection to the road network of the Republic of Slovenia, a continuation of the production of study and project documentation for the sub-level fast road cannot be foreseen until the conclusion of the merger point coordination process. The planned amount of funds on this activity is necessary for the settlement of all expenditure arising from the Republic of Croatia's contractual obligation to co-finance the provision of public services in general, of general economic interest in public rail transport in the Republic of Croatia. The reduction of the planned amount would have a negative impact on the scope and quality of public passenger transport services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110496	Thank you. The government does not accept the amendment, counterpart Antolic Vupra you want to further explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110497	However, I insist on voting, so it has been more than 20 years since the agreement on the merger point of the D2 state road with Slovenia, which is simply an unacceptable explanation. We have drawn 5 routes since the former county authorities changed them several and the state authorities changed several. It is simply unacceptable that this merger point is simply used for the citizens of the Cestica municipality to become left-handed and be present these days before and before the pandemic itself and life-threatening when in Lovrecan settlement they had to challenge the entire column that stood before the state crossing of Dubrava Križovljanska – Zavrč, and they crossed it on the opposite side for miles to reach their homes. This will not happen in the future I hope so, but it is unforgivable that such a merger point, which is the only dam for the citizens of the Cessica municipality, is simply being saved from transit traffic, is not agreed at the scheduled time. That's why I'm asking the Ministry to activate and not tell the gunmen of those municipalities through which the state road is going to be built, that it's all agreed because it's communicated in such a way as to admit it, we didn't agree after 20 years. So whoever it is, I don't think of you, all those who participated in this failed arrangement are guilty. But our future generations can't be, we have to plan these funds and we have to bring the road to functionality so that the citizens of the Cesta municipality become safer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110498	Thank you. We'll also vote on your amendment. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Here is my pleasure that today is the day when many visits to the Croatian Assembly are here at the gallery of members of the Club of Women of the Homeland War from Karlovac, so I am taking this opportunity to welcome you, welcome on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues of this representative and representative, and I hope that you will feel comfortable visiting the Croatian Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause.]] I would now ask that State Secretary Zeljko Uhlir join us here in front of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property to show the government's name about the amendments made, good day to you. 25th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110499	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. And that is because the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property has provided sufficient resources that will be sufficient to carry out the planned activities in 2022. Other multi-purpose combat aircraft equipment is implemented to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, including airspace surveillance and protection. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to give consent to the Ministry of Defence to take on the burden of State budget funds in the period from 2022-2026. for the acquisition of a multi-purpose combat plane. As a result of the above, the project cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110500	Thank you. Would you like an additional explanation from your colleague, Peović?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110501	Yeah. I'll say that regardless of the administrative obstacles, balling from local to state-level what slows the reconstruction is undoubtedly in that all agree is insufficient funds. And when you say that there's enough resources in it, then the logical question is why the reconstruction didn't move from the zero point. In Makarska it means 1962, the government organized all necessary assistance within 10 days to rebuild damaged facilities after the earthquake. The whole reconstruction was completed in just over a year, 60 years later in the 21st century we actually technologically advanced and the system almost two years after Zagreb and a year after the petri dish we didn't get away with the recovery from the dead spot, hardly anything was restored. At the same time inflation is growing, poverty is growing, people are falling into growing problems, debts and loans to secure themselves a roof over their heads and safety when passing past damaged objects. We literally have situations where dangerous buildings haven't even broken down yet. The whole reconstruction process would certainly work faster and more effectively if we were to target larger funds in the reconstruction, and I would say that it is a little cynical to say that equipment for multi-purpose combat planes is a priority at this time in the 21st century when neither Zagreb nor the Petrin area occurred, so that one single plane can be obtained something later, I believe that Zagreb could be restored. These are the amounts and figures we're talking about here, and the safety and combat planes when it was meant to be I don't think we should waste too much of our words. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110502	We'll vote on the amendment. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Let's move on, we will now be joined by State Secretary Mario Šijeg in front of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development in order to show on behalf of the government about the amendments that have been made. Amendment No. 26 MPs, Mariana Puljak. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110503	The amendment is not accepted. The RH waste management plan for the period '17-'22. for specific locations polluted by waste so-called waste. black dots are defined project statuses and possible sources of funding. The Waste Management Act stipulates that the recovery of the site polluted by waste established by the Waste Management Plan provides for the Republic of Croatia and that all recovery activities on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. The decision on the recovery of sites polluted by waste shall determine the recovery of the location and the measures and activities, as well as the recovery or termination of the recovery. The Republic of Croatia shall be entitled to compensation for all costs incurred under the conditions laid down in the law. Since waste recovery of the Dugi Rat factory is not foreseen by the Waste Management Plan of the Republic of Croatia, there is no basis for including this cost in the state budget. The waste management plan of '17-22. A measure 4.3 identified new sites polluted with hazardous waste and will take into account the proposed location in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110504	Thank you. So the government refuses the amendment. Comrade Puljak, your testimony to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110505	So, right at the beginning, I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. If I understand you correctly, then this year will not be as planned, but you'll predict for some next period. So, in response to the former minister's answer to the parliamentary question about this, it is clear to you that the ministry is acting unlawfully since, according to the Environmental Protection Act, when the one who was to take care of this waste did not do so within the deadline, the deadline expired at the end of 2019. So after that deadline, the states were supposed to take that commitment, it's not until today. So, this same amendment I proposed, and last year, you refused it with some other explanation, and here I am now saying at least the former minister has accepted that the ministry will take over that resolution, so I thought, here we go in the budget rebalance you'll put it on, so run, you say here you won't do it this year but next year. It means already or in some future period that can be from now on to eternity. So I ask that this amendment be voted to save you from the illegal conduct of the state, therefore, in an illegal manner, does not resuscitate what the Environmental Protection Act must do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110506	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment, of course. Amendment No. 27. Green-left bloc representatives' club shows the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110507	The amendment is not accepted. At the position of the Reference Centre for the Thematic Area of the Sea and the permanent system of monitoring and observation of the Adriatic Sea are listed the basis of the programme of work of the Reference Centre for the Sea for 2022.g. and funds for agreed activities within six areas of work have been provided. These are the implementation of the monitoring system, the production of reports on marine environmental indicators, support for development and implementation of marine environmental policies, the production of reports and publications on the state of the marine environment and the development of the information system for the sea and the coordination of the work of the Reference Centre for the Sea. The activities of the Reference Centre for the Sea are thus defined contracts for the work of the Reference Centre for the Sea and the programme of work of the Reference Centre for the Sea in six years from 2018-2024.g. While projections of planned activities are defined on an annual basis through the work programme of the Reference Centre for the Sea for a certain year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110508	Thank you. So the government doesn't accept the amendment. An obvious colleague of Raukar Gamulin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110509	Thank you. I didn't understand anything, but I will explain our amendment. So the fact is that climate change is here, I think we have a consensus about it in this assembly and beyond that. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia brought 19.3.'21. Decision on the adoption of an action programme of the Strategy for the management of the marine environment and coastal area of the monitoring and observation system for the permanent assessment of the state of the Adriatic Sea. These financial resources are secured in the state budget but are not sufficient. The Adriatic Sea, especially its northern part, is threatened by global warming, I hope we recognize that it exists and has twice as much warming as the rest of the Mediterranean and that is a known fact. The Adriatic Sea is also a sensitive and early indicator of the anthropogenic impacts and reactions of the marine eco system to climate change. The Adriatic Sea is a sensitive and hot point of biodiversity and we know it. There is already a long and extensive set of high resolution environmental data in the Adriatic Sea, thanks to the Croatian national monitoring project Jadran. And that is why we feel it is necessary to increase the resources that are insufficient. And we're taking from the University of Defense and Security, which the government said when it was set up that no additional funding would be needed. We're staying at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110510	Thank you, we will vote of course on your amendment. 28th Amendment of the same club. State Secretary, please, show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110511	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons and arguments as the previous amendment, noting that the coastal vessel project is implemented for the purpose of equipping the Coast Guards with coastal patrol ships, thus improving the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The project includes the procurement and placing into operation of 5 coastal patrol ships for which commitments have already been made. As a result, the resources on this project cannot be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110512	Thank you. An obvious colleague of Raukar Gamulin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110513	Yeah, I'm very sorry about this bureaucratic language, so I didn't get it very well, so I'm still going to explain our amendment to the end. So we're looking for funds to get a new boat to explore the Adriatic because the existing Villa Velebita is actually the oldest research ship we've known in Europe for 70 years, and some average age of that kind is 20 years. And that ship covers the entire North Adriatic, and it's one of the main assets in implementing the monitoring plan. Therefore, it is necessary to say that a new ship is to be built because this will significantly increase the quality of the research into that ecosystem that I spoke about in the defence of the last amendment. It will also guarantee the continuity of the EU's most extensive long-term sea research. And we therefore believe that this is necessary and we are asking for a natural vote on this amendment and we hope that the right-hand side will hear some of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110514	Thank you, of course we'll vote on this amendment. Amendment number 29. The Most Representatives' Club. State Secretary's manifesting government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110515	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, we thank first of all for the concern shown for the rehabilitation of the Mountain House in Snježnik but the proposed amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds for the completion or production of the project documentation for the construction of the home in Snježnik are secured in the amount of 292,200 kuna through the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency. After the completion or production of the project documentation, the total resources needed to build a home on Snow White will be known and the necessary funds will be provided through financial instruments that will then be available, e.g. co-financing with EU funds or other sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110516	Thank you. Additional explanation of my colleague Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110517	We do not accept the explanation and we will ask that this amendment be voted on only some principled promise of some of the future not even concrete EU funds that should be rescheduled by the Mountain House on Snow White. We're looking here to secure a $2 million asset for him. It is a very important home for the citizens of the area and it is necessary to secure these funds. The documentation project was built to remind me in 2009. The planned funds would complement the documents in view of the past period and implement the recovery plans. The facility on Snježnik would further complete Croatia's tourist offer and confirm its orientation to sustainable development and environmental protection. I'll remind you it's a home that voted for one of the most beautiful hiking homes in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110518	Thank you. We'll also vote on this amendment. Thank you, Secretary of State. We continue with the Ministry of Science and Education, good afternoon, greeting State Secretary Stipe Mamic, who will appear on behalf of the government on the arrival of the amendment. Amendment number 30. The Most Representatives' Club. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110519	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, amendment number 30 is not acceptable for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2022. And besides, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS in its draft budget for '22. and projections in '23. And '24. plan funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth operation of the body. The cost reduction would prevent the execution of the taken and... obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110520	Thank you. Additional explanation, colleague Rasdic. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110521	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. After the debacle with the Preschool Education and Education Act, which has turned back unfortunately our educators, we now come into reality the capacity of kindergartens and the way preschool education is conducted in the Republic of Croatia. We have asked here for expenditures to increase by 10 million kuna and we focused on a specific kindergarten, the Matulji kindergarten where it is necessary to increase the capacity of kindergartens in the Matulji municipality because of the received 133 requirements, they were accepted 86 and 64%, respectively. There are only 6 kindergartens in this area and more than white as existing capacities are not compatible with the needs of the population. We know how much Croatia has lost its population, and if we cannot secure places in kindergartens, then we can expect that trend to continue. So I'm going to ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110522	We'll vote. Next Amendment, Amendment No. 31 MPs Katarina Peović, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110523	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The planned funds are sufficient to pay salaries and material rights to existing employees. Also, on the basis of the conclusions of the HS Presidency of 4 February 2016 on the patronage of the Central Memorial of victims of the Bliss Tragedy and the Croatian Crossroad and planned funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for '22. Sir, HS has already contracted patronage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110524	Thank you for refusing the amendment. My colleague Peović, the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110525	Thank you. I'm taking on the role of the one who reminds me of every budget, every revision, every budget rebalancing of what I'm afraid others should start to warn about. Half a million kunas going into what? It's legitimate to commemorate every crime, but not the way the enemy army is memorialized as a victim. The gathering that was in the Bleiburg field damaged Croatia's reputation because it was openly revered by criminal Ustasha parades and movements and ideas that difficultly compromised the Croatian name, leaving behind a bloody trail. Now that party has been transferred to Croatia. The Austrian government banned the gathering in Bleigurg, and the proposal was adopted on the basis of expertise developed by a group of experts initiated by the Ministry of the Interior there. Expertise is widely elaborated on 110 pages, and the prominent German newspaper summarised the group's recommendation, quote, that the obviously largest gathering of fascists in Europe, with two exceptions, is no longer held in May, at least in the present form, at the end of the quote. After several decades of tolerance, the Austrian authorities decided to end the mass manifestations of right extremism and historical auditism that the ruling HDZ was trying to portray as the commemoration of innocent victims who have now moved to Croatia. I would like to remind you that in the preamble to the Constitution of Croatia, the basis of Croatian statehood in the period from World War II is expressed in the decisions of the National Anti-fascist Council of People's Liberation of Croatia, so it is very clear in the Constitution that Croatian statehood is expressed in the People's Liberation Movement and that the People's Liberation Army is the Croatian Army in a memorial that we will pay to taxpayers' money, half a million kuna. The Ustasha are wrongly named as the Croatian army, so I will insist on voting on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110526	Of course we'll vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 32 Clubs of Green-Left Block Representatives, Government Apparition, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110527	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the reason why it is not necessary to introduce a new position because by adopting a decision on the adoption of a curricula for inter-sectoral education and education for primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia (NN 10/2019) since 29 January 2019, civil education has been conducted in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110528	So the amendment refuses. Explanation, i.e. further explanation, colleague Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110529	Thank you. Yes, there is civil education as an inter-entities, but unfortunately there are no effects and there are no inter-materials, so I don't know what I would say is exactly a way for civil education not to be conducted, and civic education is sought by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are publicly advocated and expect the introduction of civic education into an educational programme in order to better prepare our young people for active participation in the social and democratic life of the Republic of Croatia. That is necessary, and perhaps then, we would not have had what happened yesterday, where young graduates in the City of Zagreb had their day talking and making statements that they should leave this country as soon as possible. That's what we witnessed yesterday that they might have civic education, through civic education, might have motives to stay and fight democratic means to improve the situation in this country. We're staying at the voting request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110530	Thank you. We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 33 of the same club of MPs. Please show off, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110531	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the reason why the Ministry of Science, as announced last year, plans scholarships to defecate teaching interests to finance from the European Social Fund Plus as well as the continuation of funding scholarships to students of lower socio-economic status. The resources of the National Recovery Plan and Resiliency for the award of STEM scholarships have also been provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110532	Thank you. Representative Raukar Gamulin, further explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110533	Yes, we think that given the evidently high procedure of unprofessional teaching of natural science, especially mathematics in primary and secondary schools. And given the government's declared goal of achieving natural and mathematical literacy in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. We think that this is the way to start the scholarship program, because what you gave as an explanation is some kind of fog that may happen, and maybe not, and what we propose is very specific and we believe that scholarships need to strengthen the interest of those studies in order to strengthen the human resources of the education system and, of course, remain with the amendment. Thank you. And we're looking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110534	Of course you'll get a vote. Amendment number 34, MP Marija Selak Rasudić, government statement, please state secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110535	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities in 2022. The Ministry of Science and Education has been aphiding Croatian language and culture for 30 years, improving the knowledge of Croatian language and fostering the preservation and development of Croatian identity outside the country by organising and financing the learning of Croatian language and culture through a system of Croatian teaching abroad. Given the importance of the system, all budgets are planned in detail and carefully. When it comes to increasing the coverage of children only this year, new Croatian classes in Serbia, South Africa, Norway, for example, have been opened for more coverage of the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110536	Thank you. There's no proposal. The government refuses the amendment, so we will declare it by voting. Amendment number 35. Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110537	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Science and Education secured in the school year 2021/2022. assistants in teaching and expert communication intermediaries for a total of 4583 students. Funding from the European Social Fund has also been provided through the project to provide assistants in the follow-up and expert communication intermediaries of students with developmental difficulties, primary and educational institutions in phase 4 amounting to more than 171 million kuna and lottery assets of nearly 25 million kuna, i.e. a total of nearly 96 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110538	On behalf of Green-Left Club Club colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110539	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State everything you said, the duration of the project is up to 1.8.2022, and therefore we warn that the funding of the assistants in the European Social Fund teaching began 7 years ago, now for almost 8 years. Meanwhile, the number of students who need help as well as the number of assistants has grown significantly, multiple and the standards set here are now a valuable part of the entire education system and an important step in inclusiveness. So, of course, in equating the educational and social opportunities of all our students, and so on with those with whom assistants are needed in the classroom. In this respect, it is of utmost importance that this institute is not only supported, but also the strengths and units of local and regional self-government do not have enough resources to finance the work on their own, so the work of assistants in the follow-up is needed and strong and structured state-level assistance is needed. I hope you will accept this amendment, however, from your right-hand side. It is a highly sensitive group that needs both help and support, which are our students who need assistants in the follow-up. And that's why, of course, we're staying with the amendment and we're looking for a vote with the hope that the right-hand side will hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110540	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment number 36. Green-left bloc representatives' club shows the government on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110541	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation as the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110542	Thank you. My colleague Gamulin-Raukar, Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110543	As Mr. Secretary of State has said, with the same explanation that I've been talking about for two minutes now, that I'm not wasting everyone's time. I can only stress the need for financial support, the structural support of the state to the system of assistants in the follow-up. If the state does not answer now, the system could begin to collapse since autumn this year. So we urge this and the next amendment to take this problem seriously and to find the means to maintain not only this programme, but also to develop as it has developed so far. Here's a thank you, and of course we're staying at the voting request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110544	Thank you. We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment number 37 of the same club of representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia to the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110545	Well, like the previous Government of the Republic of Croatia, it does not accept this amendment. It's three in sequence with the same meaning, so I'm going to elaborate a little bit more. If you are concerned about the next school year, the government has already solved this problem, and we are aware of the fact that the programming period of the 14th 20th is at an end, that the contract was initially a year to support the assistant in the 10m-euro process. Since this school year, i.e. the beginning of last year, this amount has been almost doubled, and as you can see in this answer we have doubled and secured this for the next school year. So there is no reason to worry and there is no reason to add any additional funds from the budget when we finance this through the European Fund or Croatian lottery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110546	Thank you. An obvious colleague of Raukar-Gamulin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110547	Well, I'm glad to see you, Mr. Secretary of State, that I've brought you with my appeals to give us that information. And since we're not sure, that's exactly how it's gonna be. I think it is good that this topic is very important not only for the Croatian education system but is important for Croatian society because we must be a society of solidarity, we must be a society that will look after all vulnerable and sensitive social categories and groups. We would strengthen the project of assistants in the course and with this amendment, and therefore, please stay at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110548	Thank you. We'll also vote on this amendment. Now just another little break, a break from the amendment. At the diplomatic gallery, representatives of the Committee on Harmonization with the EU of the Great National Assembly of Turkey are with us, so I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to welcome them all together. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We continue, amendment number 38 of MP Katarina Peovic. The government's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110549	So this is the fourth in a row, the government is manifested as the previous three that the amendment is not accepted with the clarification that we are very aware that children with difficulties are one of the most vulnerable groups in Croatian society and that all together we must do everything we can and what is in our power to provide support for them. And we've just done it all these previous years, and we're going to do it further as I just said with significantly higher resources, so there's no need for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110550	Thank you. The obvious of my colleague, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110551	Thank you. I think it's scandalous to repeat from the amendment to the amendment that enough resources have been provided for the assistants in the teaching. Four weeks ago, we were here at Mark's Square having an aide protest in class. These people cost this country as much as half a Rafael. They're people who literally sleep at school, do jobs that teachers do, but they're really second-class citizens. They get a contract by summer, then the contract breaks up in summer, then that response is renewed again in the rune. So these are over-worked workers who work for poor wages with whom they cannot provide a minimal own existence, who care for one of the most sensitive groups in the society of children with special needs. And you say there's enough resources provided for these people. So that's scandalous. That's really scandalous. I really hope that someone on the other hand will be aware enough to vote for any of these amendments for helpers in the teaching that are here on Mark's square clearly express what they are doing. They care daily for children who need their assistance who cannot go to school without them. Unlike teachers who are also underpaid and overworked but have some minimum rights, they have no rights. So they literally have contracts for a certain time for years. It's totally unacceptable, so our mouths are full of social justice, child care, care for people with disabilities, so show it then. This really isn't enough resources, half a Rafael. All these people cost half a Rafael. I'd like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110552	We'll vote of course. Next amendment, amendment number 39 of MP Mira Bulj. Government of the Republic of Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110553	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The activities in question shall finance exclusively the most priority facilities where the safety of pupils and employees is compromised in accordance with the opinion of the competent authorities and the proposed funds are sufficient for the execution of contracts concluded by the Ministry of Science and Education. In addition, in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, one of the key investments in the education system is building the capacities of primary schools to switch jobs, to work on one shift as necessary assumptions for the introduction of a full-time school. For the same purpose, an amount of 2 billion 280 million kuna is foreseen, which will be granted through a public call, not individual requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110554	Thank you, on amendment number 39, which the government does not accept, we will plead with the vote. 40th Amendment of the same agent. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110555	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. Planned funds are enough for all activities in '22. A year. In addition, it is important to stress that recently in, a recent paper on central state's assistance to finance the work of pre-school institutions has been incorporated into the law or that a colleague said it was scandalous, I would say, is revolutionary. So for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, we have provided one model of the settlement fund to ensure the long-term sustainability of pre-school institutions. I'm going to give an example, I don't know if we remember it, 10 years ago when there was a kindergarten in Croatia, where there were employees unable to pay salaries, with the same payment of directorial expenses. The basis of these changes in the law recently passed by the Croatian Parliament will no longer be possible because those with poor fiscal capacity the central state will help them in this direction. Since this is not the only paper in the law, we, as you are familiar with, have already been called public to build new capacity and in accordance with negotiations with the commission within the NPO, have committed to raising our coverage to 90% for all children from 3 years of age to school. Regardless of this, the call is acceptable and the Jaslin Groups are also aware that there is a need to make visible progress in that part, and as the whole model was agreed with the Commission more than a year ago in a law that you also recently voted on, and the same possibility is envisaged for those who do not have sufficient fiscal capacity or who are below the average of the development index that they will be able to apply to additional funds to the Ministry of Science or those who will propose functional integration to the funds of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, one of the more important things you have called scandalous is when all these kindergartens are built given the insufficient number of educators in situations where the same ones are not available, teachers are allowed to apply to the same jobs [[Intruder: Time.]] class classes, thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110556	Mr. Secretary of State, we've now exceeded our time. As a result, there is no way that he or she can and cannot be shown about what you have given as your indication, or reason for the rejection of the amendment, of Amendment No. 40 of us will declare our vote. Amendment No. 41 Representatives of the Republic of Croatia Selak Rasludić, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110557	Here, thank you very much. I'll be very brief. [[Intruder: And stick to time, please.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the same explanation as the same subject, only the fact that the MPs have no one who said it was a debacle, we believe that we have made huge steps by voting that Law and everything we have foreseen in that concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110558	Thank you. There is no proposer, so we will declare the amendment by voting. Amendment No. 42 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge, the government's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110559	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities of primary school institutions in 2022. Also, the proposal is not accepted because a reduction of €20 million to information activities of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs would lead to the inability to carry out commitments undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110560	Thank you. There is no proposer, so we will also vote on Amendment 42. Amendment No. 43 MPs Selak Rasdic, government statement, secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110561	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reasons that the funds are in '22. Mr. planned in sufficient amount. The Ministry of Science and Education through activities continuously raises the level of equipment of primary school libraries by lecturing and professional literature in order to comply with the standards for school libraries by which library construction is complemented every school year and new titles of magazines and newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110562	Thank you. And on Amendment 43, we will plead by vote. Amendment No. 44 representatives of Stjepan Kovac, the government's manifestation, the secretary of state, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110563	Thank you very much. The amendment is invalid and the explanation of why it is invalid is in fact that in accordance with the Budget Act Article. No. 41st century 1. The budget law stipulates that any amendments and additions adopted by the HS by the amendment should not change the planned deficit or surplus set out in the proposal for a state budget. It is also prescribed that amendments to the proposed amendments may be submitted during the debate, proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget provided that a reduction of other expenditures in the same amount and within the same sources of funding is proposed at the same time. Since this amendment proposes an increase in expenditure financed from the sources of funding affecting the level of lack of state budget, the sources of financing 11 General Revenue and Receipts, and the burden of expenditure financed from sources of funding that do not affect the level of deficit, in this case the financing of 581 is a mechanism for recovery and resilience, therefore within different sources of funding, which would increase the lack of state budget and is not valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110564	Because it is not valid, there is no need, or room for explanation. Amendment No. 45 MP Selak Rasudic, please show the government, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110565	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the annual decision, sufficient means have been provided for transport costs to students with developmental difficulties who need to be transported, as well as increased transport costs for escorts, co-financing of teaching tools, assistance and nutrition for students with developmental difficulties. For primary school students, transport is provided for 3736 users, a diet for 99, 923 users and doactic equipment for 613 users of 34 500,000 kuna, for primary school students, as well as for 3 150 000 students of secondary schools, totaling 37,650,000 kuna, which is sufficient funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110566	The proposal is therefore missing, so we will declare this amendment with a vote. Amendment No. 46 Representatives of the Republic of Croatia Selak Rasdic, Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110567	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the calculation of the necessary means of public inter-urban transport for pupils is based on the criteria laid down in the Decision on the criteria and method of financing the public transport costs of regular high school students for the school year '21/'22. and the average monthly amounts of requests by the County for payment and co-financing of secondary transport in the school year '20/'21. The redistribution of the planned funds at this activity at the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, depending on the dynamics of the conclusion of certain public service contracts between the units of the regional self-government and the carrier, in accordance with the Decision on granting consent to the conclusion of a public service co-financing contract in the road transport of passengers for the period from 2022 to 2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110568	Thank you. There is no proposal, so we will also declare this amendment with a vote. 47th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, an indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110569	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education, pardon, primary and secondary school, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funds for these purposes in the state budget, but in the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. county and cities. Also, to point out that the funds planned in this position are related to the reform initiative to raise students' coverage in the high school programmes and will be allocated through a public call from the national, from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110570	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, counterpart Antolic Vupora is an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110571	So we all know how important regional competence centres are, especially when it comes to tourism and catering, so that the training school from Zabok, I'm sorry, High School in Zabok can function within this regional competence centre, it needs various infrastructure projects. So the Krapina-Zagorje County is implementing two EU projects in co-operation with the High School in Zabok. One is in 100% of the funding from the European Social Fund, more than 66 million kuna. The second is in a smaller range of funding, which is worth 35 million kuna and funding from the European Regional Development Fund. In that section for 5, more than 5 million participants are Krapina-Zagorska County. And when she implemented the project, she also received offers which, of course, were due to the covid crisis and war in Ukraine, were 100% more than it would have been if it hadn't been for that. In order for that high school to exist as a regional centre of competence, it is necessary to build a gym. The Krapina-Zagorje County takes a 40 million kuna loan to cover the deficit, but now it lacks 20 million kuna to build a school sports hall, and the school itself unless the hall is built it will not have minimum technical conditions to become a centre of competence and on the other hand is a difficulty because it cannot be applied to European funds, so that this million investment and a valuable regional centre can be maintained and necessary assistance from the ministry. I beg you don't forget those great efforts that are... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110572	Thank you. Are you asking, fellow Members, for a vote on this amendment? Okay, we'll make a statement about the amendment by voting. [[Intruder: Please]] Amendment No. 48th Representative Ban Vlahek. Occupied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Secretary of State, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110573	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted if it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funds for these purposes in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, but rather in the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. counties and cities. It is also to point out that we are aware of the modest fiscal capacities of the founders of school institutions, and that the existing resources are not enough to finance the necessary educated infrastructure, and we will comply with the reform processes in the period from '21-'27. In addition to these resources provided within the NPOO, seek to enable the financing of the educational infrastructure from eu funds in the next programming period with a view to achieving spatial and other conditions of educational work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110574	Thank you. Any further explanation for Agent Ban Vlahek's needs? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110575	Thank you. I think there's been some confusion here because the number of amendments, number 48 of the amendment, does not apply to schools, but to the construction of the Interpretation Centre "Vidovski Zlatars" in Donji Vidovac and at no time, not a single sentence mentions education in this amendment, so either it's some other amendment, but this is not the amendment that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110576	There was no confusion, I responded to your amendment that you applied to our portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110577	So the 48th Amendment is a tourist amendment relating to the Interpretation Centre “Vidovski Zlatars” Donji Vidovec, not education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110578	Well, yeah, but we're the school's realtor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110579	Well, it is an education resort, but it has nothing to do with schooling, it's a purely tourist project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110580	So we can't finance it as a tourist project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110581	But it wasn't even wanted from school, then obviously there was some confusion. Now I'd like to read it to you, I've got two minutes left, well, it means Amendment No. 48th, just a little bit, building, buying and maintaining buildings, has to do with schooling? You don't know either because you got it written, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110582	I've already answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110583	No problem, mostly I ask that the amendment be voted because it is an important tourist project in Međimurje County. I am now in my own way, obviously you have failed to comply and I think this amendment is important to preserve the tradition of the Međimurje County and the tradition of washing gold in Donji Vidovac, so I would like to ask you a nice vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110584	Comrade Ban Vlahek, we will vote on this amendment. Next Amendment No. 49th Representative Selak Rasdic, please welcome your testimony on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110585	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, excuse me, the programme of stable lending of employees in the system of science and higher education ended on 30 June 2008. the expiry of the prescribed annexes of the contract with universities and the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The amount of the planned assets was obtained, which was planned on the basis of the average monthly amount of invoices in 2021, which is continuously reduced in accordance with the repayment of the credit parties of the users of the subsidised loans, and the planned funds are sufficient for the existing liabilities. This programme was in force at a time when market interest rates were quite high, they have now come down in recent years thanks to good work both to the government and the finance minister to the levels that were then in part of the subsidy alone, and at this point there was no initiative, nor was the possibility of further activation of the programme being considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110586	Thank you. My colleague Selak Rasudić has an additional explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110587	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. First of all, we need to be aware of the current economic reality, and it is such that it is almost at low interest rates, so they will certainly grow in the near future. It wouldn't be bad for a change if we anticipated some changes in the market and in time provided funds in the budget for such an important item, and indeed one of the more serious problems of the Republic of Croatia is just so-called. It would be very useful for the Ministry of Science and Education, through its own political solutions, to offer some form of stimulating the purchase of the first real estate for this young higher education chamber, for scientific recruits and assistants, as it once did before, to enable them to choose the real estate in which they want to live, and not to have to do so through certain apartments that a mayor would have built in advance where they were then condemned to the neighborhood and to the location they did not choose, which they had already experienced before when they tried with similar policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110588	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 50 MPs Selak Rasludic shows the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110589	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the resources allocated are sufficient for the participation of national experts in working groups for the implementation of the Bologna Process and working groups of the European Commission related to higher education as well as national working groups and events aimed at improving the higher education system and national implementation of projects and initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110590	Thank you. Appearance of colleague Selak Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110591	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. The reality of the higher education process in the Republic of Croatia is such that many universities have never until the end implemented the Bologna Process, and when we talk about what should have been the essence of this same process, which is to enable the passing of our universities or cooperation with abroad because of the diversity in programmes and because of the insufficient offer in foreign languages, we still do not have adequate opportunities to attract foreign students to the Republic so that they can really participate in the educational process, and at the same time we have not yet adapted all the programmes within individual studies to this same process. So, in this sense, the development of higher education still exists in a very, very large amount of space to move, especially knowing that on this trail they are changing from day to day requests to the higher education community in terms of all the conditions they have to meet in order for their programmes to be accredited. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110592	Thank you. We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 51 of the same MPs, an indication of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110593	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the resources in the state budget are planned in a sufficient amount, taking into account historical data on the implementation of the same activity. Under this activity, funds are planned to cover the costs associated with the production of press and the equipment of doctoral dissertation up to a maximum of 3,500 kuna in accordance with the collective contract as negotiated, which is demonstrated by the accounts and the funds for co-financing of tuition costs for public high-school employees, staff at the assistant’s part-time job, which are to enroll and regularly attend postgraduate university studies, means doctoral under the terms of the prescribed collective contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110594	Thank you. Additional explanation of colleague Selak Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110595	As someone who comes from a higher education system, I have long warned of a hole in the financing of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. So, with us de facto there are no scholarships for doctoral studies, it's amazing knowing that in the long run the most educational place is the one that is the engine or the driver of society at all levels. And when we take positive examples of other countries like Finland where doctoral studies are easily available and free of charge, even though the qualifications of most people who choose to further educate themselves and compare it with the situation in the Republic of Croatia where you can get a free doctoral study only if you are within a higher education system which is a rare opportunity. And I've paid for the first two years of doctoral studies myself, and I think it's necessary to make a serious turn in these policies and finally provide some funding for scholarships so that more of our good students can decide on the continuation of the highest degree of education. I don't accept and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110596	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment No. 52 MPs Katarina Peovic, a government figure. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110597	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment on the grounds that the funds in the state budget for the programme financing of public higher schools are planned in sufficient amounts. The calculation of funding for programme funding is based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the programme financing of public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia for the academic years '18-19, '19-20, '20-21, '021-22. So this is the last year of application will have to be made a new decision, and it is in force with this year and it has been since the academic year '20-'21. We exempt from the programme funding and proposed to the special position of the state budget something special and specific, which is the position of A67910 support to art studies for which the funds for additional financing of artistic activity have been allocated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110598	Thank you. My colleague Katarina Peović has an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110599	Well, this art study thing, I have to admit, I didn't realize if it meant then that you added something from a total number to another position, so the total figure is looking at maybe bigger, but now I don't know how much art studies are going to be some enormously larger number, I doubt it's something that's going to spin in our head because when we find out. But I'd like to remind you that the budget is set for '22. already at the beginning was 30 million kuna smaller than the previous years and the programme financing of public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia. I mean, when you say those are resources enough because I come from that sector, so I come from higher education at our university, and in other colleges you practically have departments where we finance programming, no assistants, no funding we used to have. I think you can really see a recession on humanism. It's really important to remember what the funds are about, I mean we're really not talking about some large amounts, so 400 million kuna is being asked here to rise to 740 million kuna for the program financing of public higher schools. And where would we get it from? So support for religious communities, I don't know how we can support religious communities anymore, given that we gave one billion kuna annually to religious communities for the Church non-transparently throughout the budget you can find items, it can't even count how much is given to religious communities. One would say that religious communities should support and support society, and it seems that society and the social majority should support religious communities if we are constantly funding spiritual exercises from various universities to the military sector, and here is support, whether, religious communities, instead of supporting, whether, religious communities, the proposal is to finance something more. Program funding for public schools [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm going to ask you about the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a voice. [[You're looking for a vote, I suppose?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110600	Okay, we'll also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 53 distinguished representatives of Marija Selak Rasudic, an indication of the government of the Republic of Croatia, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110601	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment because the resources in the state budget are planned in sufficient amount to finance the cost of tuition for assistants employed at public scientific institutes as well as the cost of producing and equipping doctoral dissertations. The reduction in the number of assistants at public scientific institutes and taking into account historical data on execution, does not require an increase in the planned funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110602	Thank you. Additional explanation of the amendment, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110603	I do not accept the argument and ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, as I pointed out in the previous amendment, I asked that scholarships be finally provided for doctoral studies, and here I am also asking for postgraduate studies because our goal is only one, which is that we have as many higher education staff as possible and that our best students do not prevent their financial opportunities from obtaining the highest degree of education, to complete education if they have an interest and capacity after the university, means that they go further with the study. And the Ministry of Science and Education should really change its policies by opening the door for students who have appropriate grades, but who do not have financial opportunities, at least to allow them to continue their education after completing their studies. I work a lot with students and I know a lot of very good students who would like to continue with a doctorate or a postgraduate study, but unfortunately they don't have financial opportunities for that. They need Croatia, not Croatia to them because these scholarships they may seek and find outside a significant number, an increasing number of my students have already gone abroad because there, if they are good, if they possess qualifications, they can get scholarships to continue education, and in the Republic of Croatia those who do not have money in this sense will not remain there because they have the highest degree of education completely closed. It's amazing to me that this is still the case and that we haven't woken up in this sense and that we're letting these people go to countries that are looking forward to encouraging those great ones to continue their studies because later they will use their knowledge and opportunities to contribute to the development of the whole country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110604	We'll also vote on your amendment. Amendment No. 54 of the same MPs, an indication of the government of the Republic of Croatia, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110605	And thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment because the project improves equal opportunities in education for students with development difficulties is a project financed from the European Economic Area, the financial mechanism for the period '14-'21. The total amount of grants is EUR 3 529 412 and cannot be increased as it is defined by the grant agreement. In planning the budget for 2022 as well as the accompanying projections in '23. And '24. Carnet led the planned and planned dynamics of project activities. Since the signing of the grant agreement was finally implemented on 1 July '21. Mr. Carnet was planning on making plans, and Carnet was planning to implement himself, and he secured and projected the planned funds for '22. Mr. in line with the dynamics of the contracted project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110606	Thank you. Additional explanation, colleague Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110607	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In this regard, I asked that by 2 million kuna, an item to improve equal opportunities in education for students with developmental difficulties. The degree of development of a country is reflected in the degree of acceptance and equal opportunities for students with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. When we talk, on the other hand, about the Republic of Croatia, if we were to measure it by this criterion, I will remind you of the conversation we had here a few weeks ago and when we discussed the Preschool and Education Act, there was only a possibility left there, but at this earliest level of education that children with developmental difficulties would get a communication expert, but the Law did not want to make it a commitment. Which means that, knowing the Croatian reality and opportunities that local communities have at their disposal, they will probably not in practice receive additional support from the earliest profit, and they need additional care to develop according to their capabilities and follow up with other children. And at the level of further education, it is necessary to improve the status of children with developmental difficulties, so I insist on this amendment and will demand that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110608	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State. I now declare a brief break. We'll continue at 12 and 10. It's 11:50 a.m. My colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for the little delay, we will continue, and we will now be joined by State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Mr. Dragan Jelic, a good day to you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.12 HOURS]] Amendment No. 55. Representative Mosta's club, here's an indication on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110610	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. The funds planned at the position of 0.86 of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, family and social policy, social care and social assistance and compensation are sufficient to meet the commitments of that position by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110611	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta additional explanation of colleagues Selak Rasdić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110612	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. We consider it necessary to increase the resources in the state budget for maternity and parental support, specifically for childcare leave with severe difficulties in the development of the right to use up to 8g childhood. Life. As far as this is concerned, you could see for yourself the requirement of organizations dealing with children with developmental difficulties in view of the growth of all life costs and the devastating years of ignoring children's parents with severe developmental disturbances that they urgently and overtly need three things, an increase in the monetary allowance for child care with severe developmental disturbances to a minimum of 4 thousand kuna, a delimination of the period of leave for child care with severe developmental disturbances instead of the age of 8 years. A child’s life permit must be used as long as the need exists for the same, and the suspension of the right to leave for care in the event of the cancellation of one of the parents. I think it is a minimum that we can do for parents and children with developmental difficulties and if you are not ready to accept this amendment, and it is about the request of organizations that are dedicated to children with developmental disabilities, then I hope that through at least other budgetary means you can respect their current requirements and allow us to develop an inclusive society that will be in line with the highest democratic standards particularly sensitive to children with developmental difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110613	Thank you. We will vote on that amendment. Amendment No. 56th of the same MPs, the government's testimony, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110614	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned for the implementation of national strategies and the improvement of professional work in the social care system have increased by one million kuna compared to 2021. and are sufficient for the implementation of national strategies, as well as for the improvement of professional work in the social care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110615	Thank you. Additional explanation, MP Selak Rasudić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110616	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I was looking for additional funds to improve professional work in the welfare system. I would like to remind you that at the time of the pandemic, domestic violence grew by an incredible 40%, that this trend did not disappear after the first year, but that further growth continued with over 10%, which is why social care systems are heavily overloaded. They are not only burdened with the problem of family violence but also with the problem of inability to process and take care of children who need to be removed from their home and given to other guardians. Given the fact that we do not have enough employees in the social care system, I believe it is urgent and necessary, and if we know the current social political circumstances, and this is now with an unfortunate epidemic, for the pandemic that we hope is behind us, and we will see what is ahead of us in the autumn, the cost of living growth, the great inflation and uncertainty within Europe unfortunately assume that there will also be serious consequences for the rise and domestic violence and burden of the social care system, especially because of the growth of the number of hungry, which we can expect in winter given the current trend and inflation in the Republic. For this reason, we need to focus urgently on making our social care functional and accessible to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, even these funds that I am looking for insufficient because soon, unfortunately, many of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be forced to knock on their door.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110617	Thank you and we will vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 57th Representative Selak Rasludic, a government statement, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110618	The amendment is not accepted. Funds planned to support financial support activities for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults are designed to meet the obligations of associations of persons with disabilities and associations who act in favour of persons with disabilities, personal assistance services, seeing followers and sign language interpreters. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed amendments and amendments to the State budget for 2022. It provided an additional 56 million and almost 400, 56 million and almost 400 thousand kuna in 2022. in relation to the original plan, in order for the personal assistance service to remain available to persons with disabilities who completed the implementation of the contract financed by the ISF.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110619	Thank you. Additional explanation from colleagues Selak Rasudić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110620	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I asked that funding be increased for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults by one million kuna. As I stress through all my amendments, and this is not one that is on the same track, I believe that our society can only move forward when it regains the needs of particularly vulnerable social groups, which are persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. They are currently not provided with sufficient resources in the system. You have now and this situation that I have warned you about, an association that points out that resources are urgently needed to bridge this period that is ahead of us and that would at all have a legal framework that allows it to devote itself to caring for children with developmental difficulties that their parents can be with them. Having all of the above in mind and respecting the requests made by associations dealing with children with developmental difficulties and the needs of persons with disabilities, I consider it necessary to provide additional resources for their needs in this item, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110621	We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 58 Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government's showing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110622	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned for activities aimed at improving the protection of victims of domestic violence are intended for settlement by means of two-year shelter programmes and counselling centres for victims of domestic violence and are sufficient to settle the contractual commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110623	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, colleague Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110624	Thank you. The budget therefore does not show the means to implement the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, etc. The Istanbul Conventions are not separated by more significant means of combating violence against women, especially the funds provided for shelter services, but also for prevention and this, this amendment provides for additional funds for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention adopted in this assembly. We have already heard from colleague Selak Rasudiæ the fact that at the time of the lockdown and the epidemic of domestic violence and violence against women has grown dramatically 40%, the circumstances of the society in which we are living today inflation, war, the threat of hunger all we have heard now are quite unfortunately the circumstances that will affect the increase in domestic violence and violence against women. We witness almost daily examples of violence against women, even femicidals, and it is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to separate the more significant funds necessary for both shelters and prevention. We keep talking about the same things, and nowhere does it move in reality and therefore, of course, we insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110625	Thank you, colleague. We will vote of course on this amendment. Next Amendment No. 59 Representatives of Maria Selak Raspoudić Apparition of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110626	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110627	Thank you. Added explanation of colleague Selak Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110628	As I said in my previous amendment, as my colleague Raukar has now said, we have a serious problem with family violence. I asked here to allocate additional funds to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence because it must be our social priority. As chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, of course, I feel a special responsibility to point to problems related to family violence. However, regardless of this as a human, as a parliamentary representative, I find it unacceptable that after so much increase in domestic violence we have witnessed within the pandemic we have a further trend growing, not stagnation or slowing down already the previous high figures. We have a very difficult period ahead of us, inflation is dizzy, which will be with gas and electricity prices in winter, and we know that in times of such crisis, domestic violence is escalating. I will remind you that I followed in detail and demanded the statistics of the MUP that when we witnessed an earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, violence there grew by another 10% compared to the increase in domestic violence on average in the Republic of Croatia. So negative existential circumstances have a profound impact on family violence, so we need to secure additional money for its prevention because so far the system that we see by the figures has not yet functioned. Of course I'll ask for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110629	Thank you, colleague. We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 60 representatives of Andreja Maric, the government's obvious, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110630	The amendment is not accepted. For healthcare traineeship support 84 million and 860 thousand kuna are provided in HZZ positions, the activity Effective human potentials of counter-group 36 and that amount is sufficient to include about 900 people we consider sufficient for the needs of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110631	Thank you. Additional explanation from my colleague Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110632	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with your clarification and I'm asking for an amendment to the vote. So I've been dealing with this problem for a year and a half and obviously in the system, you don't know that the traineeship issues aren't solved. So, in 2020, only 170 seats were scheduled for 2021. 2,000 places, but inadequate quota allocation, for this year 900 places like you said, but that's not enough. So, for a few years, there are 3,000 people waiting for a traineeship, so you can't solve the problem with these 900. The State has prescribed that the traineeship must be carried out and does not allow it to be carried out within a reasonable period of time. A reasonable deadline is not two, three years I hope you agree. I agree with this number that you said, I'm familiar with all the terms of the four contingents that are projected by the Employment Service, but that 84 million isn't enough, so I asked another 40 million to at least cover another 420 seats, that would be all totaling 1320 which is again far from the required number. So since you didn't have the understanding right now, I hope it will be when the budget is re-planned. I also asked at the 12th month to plan, but apparently we don't take care of our young people. So here I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110633	Of course we'll vote on the amendment. Let's move on, Amendment No. 61 MPs, Katarina Peovic, the government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110634	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Searches is a proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan for 2022. proposed a reduction of the planned funds for 184,450 kuna. It is estimated that the proposed proposal will be sufficient for the purpose of paying out labour claims in the event of bankruptcy by the end of the financial year. We do not feel that there is a need to increase the funds planned for the settlement of labour claims over which the employer, over which the employer will be subject to bankruptcy proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110635	Thank you very much. Additional explanation by my colleague, Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110636	Well, it's clear to me that you're now refusing to order our amendment that's the game we play on all these budgetary debates, rebalances, etc., but it's amazing to say that enough funds are 28 million kunas for labour demand claims in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. So you're only looking at it from this year, if I get it right. I don't know if you know that a series of companies that mean it's gone down are not paid labor claims. Kamensky's workers have charged 15% of their search. 15% of what they're doing is what they've earned themselves. That's their pay. So what can't be given to those of years ago? I mean, it's totally, I don't know, I can't explain at all how you're looking at it in total I don't know just a year one because we know that the Diocy workers didn't collect their own, their demands, their earned wages. These aren't means some debts you understand are the salaries the workers earned and then the employer didn't pay them off. Can't the state jump in and give these workers what they're owed. There's no way that exactly what you're saying means there's no need for that amount. And I will warn of where we take it from, which is not your sector, but that is the task of the Workers' Front to warn of what nobody else will obviously warn, which is that no less than 20 million kunas are released annually for pensions so-called. Croatian Homeland Army. So, thanks to HDZ, all workers in Croatia have been singled out for so-called pensions for 30 years. Croatian Homeland Army. The army under that name has never existed in history, but the name has been chosen since, above all, the international granting of pensions to NDH soldiers, Ustashas, the natives would cause a whole range of problems and issues. We're asking for those pensions to be abolished. We will ask to vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110637	We will vote on this amendment of course. Amendment number 62, MP Selak Rasdic. The government's obvious, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110638	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned for the accommodation compensation activity in the foster family intended to meet the needs of social care users located in foster families are sufficient to settle obligations on the basis of the recognition of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110639	Thank you. Additional explanation, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110640	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, I asked for an increase in compensation for accommodation in the foster home. I don't know if you're aware of what the problem is right now when we talk about foster care in Croatia. After the tragic case of a little girl, Nicole's number of requests to carefree children's homes tripled. We had a situation half a year ago that over 700 children who were in families where they were being abused were waiting to be taken care of elsewhere at all. And if you follow what they say in the carefree children's centres, I'll literally quote one raiser who said that the ultimate question that every child asks her is when we go home. Well, that's what we here have to look for you for because there is little situation without any pathetics in which we have an opportunity like this budget specifically to offer some policies that would be in the direction of solving the problem of particularly vulnerable social groups that society and politics are not paying enough attention to. That children from foster families are not tomorrow's voters, so maybe that's why there's not enough budget funds for them. However, I must remind you that this accumulated problem is because we have not had enough capacity in our homes long ago, and the number of foster families is decreasing year by year after media awareness of this problem due to the tragic case of the girl Nicole and given the large number of children waiting to escape from her abusers, we must surely provide additional funds for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110641	Thank you. We'll also vote on this amendment. Amendment 63. The Most Representatives' Club. The government's obvious, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110642	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. At position 086, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy shall provide funds exclusively for the activity of social care. Since it is not possible to recognise in the welfare system the right to stay for parents during treatment and therapy the proposed amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110643	Thank you. Additional explanation of my colleague Selak Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110644	The argument is not accepted and we will ask that this amendment be voted on because we believe it is necessary to provide funds for the accommodation of parents who, after giving birth to neonatology or disease, are forced to stay in another city for treatment and pay for accommodation because they do not have the possibility of being in the hospital with their child. In itself, the situation is difficult enough for any family, and it must be necessary for the child to continue to develop and overcome this difficult period. And it may seem easy for us here in the assembly or for you in the government since we have financial opportunities to be with our children, but a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot secure this type of accommodation and must travel daily if they want to see their child who needs such health care. In Croatia, we have 3 large KBCs that are gravitated by all those citizens, i.e. children and babies whose adequate medical care cannot be afforded in the hospitals of the cities where they live or are significantly close to them and are therefore forced to single out on their own to travel to see their children. Surely the state can do more to make it easier for them to overcome this difficult period at the end of the line that is also a question of the child’s well-being. We'll definitely ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110645	Thank you. We'll also vote on this amendment. Thank you, Secretary of State, goodbye. We will now be joined by State Secretary Tomislav Družak of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports to show on behalf of the government about, good afternoon, Amendment 64. It's the Bridge Representative's club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110646	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110647	Excuse me, just a second, we have a little technical problem. Can you please just repeat the explanation again for the record because it didn't work this microphone of yours, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110648	Thank you. So the amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that, at position 3920, the development of sport has sufficient means to provide the necessary means for the full implementation of all the content activities, and in our opinion, no additional resources are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110649	Thank you very much. It means Amendment 64. The Bridge counseling club is not accepted. Additional explanation of my colleague Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110650	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, we were looking for additional funds for the Bogar Club Vežica. It's a sports club from Rijeka founded in 1957. The biggest sports success was winning the title of the former state champion in 1974. in fours. The basic prerequisite of the existence of a bogar club is its bogaric playground, etc. Yog. Vezica has owned its training and match space since its creation, but within a few years HDZ's leadership of the City Board of Gornja Vežice, a city quarter from which the club emerged in agreement with the SDP city's government, the territory has given way to the city of Rijeka. The town of Rijeka sold it to the Rijeka Archdiocese for the need to build a parish church, and the Boćarska Club Vežica was to receive a new modern water bottle compartment within the intended sports centre. The city of Rijeka did not keep its promise, the sports centre, just as the bottleyard was not built, and the building permit under consideration will soon expire. As things stand now, then HDZ's leadership has left its bottles with no roof over their heads. We therefore propose to correct the damage done to the Boćarska Club Vežica and to provide funds for the construction of the temporary space of the Božarska Club Rijeka according to the proposal of the Božarska Club Vežica project. We'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110651	Thank you. We'll also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. The 65th Boška Ban Vlahek representative was orally withdrawn. Thank you, Secretary of State. She would now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, to come for a pay phone to show on behalf of the government about the amendments of which the first amendment is no. 66th representative Katarina Peović. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110652	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health pays accommodation and treatment for persons deprived of liberty at the above activity. The proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget increased that activity by a million and a half kuna, with a new financial plan of 23.5 million kuna. That increase is sufficient to carry out those health care activities and therefore the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110653	Thank you. counterpart Katarina Peovic has no need for further explanation. Are you asking for a vote? ... Amendment 66 has been withdrawn. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Amendment No. The 67th representative of Marija Selak Rasdic, please welcome the government's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110654	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health shall co-finance the monitoring of environmental air quality factors in Slavonski Brod on that activity. In accordance with the proposal of the Public Health Institute of Brod-Posavina County, there is no need for additional sources of funding in '22. concerning the monitoring of the impact study of environmental factors on human health, the amendment is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110655	The 67th amendment is not accepted by the government. colleague Selak Rasudić additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110656	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. We know how serious the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod is because when we compare it with the rest of Europe then we see that it is one of the most polluted areas within Europe. You have done one study, however, whether you have studied it well enough and implemented its results in improving the health care of Slavonski Brodi citizens because this is what I asked for to increase budgets. An extremely serious problem which has been unresolved for years and which makes it impossible for the citizens of Slavonski Brod to live healthy, and this is high air pollution still standing can be said in an airless space. Of course I'm going to ask that amendment to be voted on. It is unacceptable for a civilised country to have citizens of one city who do not have sufficient living conditions in the sense of being in 2022 today. Directly endangers their health due to unquality air, the state can and must do much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110657	Thank you. On Amendment No. We'll hold a vote on 67th. Amendment No. 68th of the same proposing, or nominate, please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110658	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. That 3602 programme under Chapter 09605 shall finance investments in health infrastructure. The proposal to amend and supplement the state budget increases that programme by 174 million 580 thousand and no further increase is required and therefore that amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110659	Thank you. Additional explanation of my colleague Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110660	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, what is it about, and I think that now everyone could be sensitive to this problem, given that the other day was a sugar disease day that we voted together in HS, and it would not be good to know that, after that day, there was a message that it was only a declaration of support for people who had diabetes in the Republic of Croatia. This is one of their basic demands, and I have already referred a parliamentary question about it and put the amendment here, but there is still no hearing about it. What's this about? I asked to increase funds by half a million kuna to allow adequate storage of medical waste for diabetics. They are currently unable to guarantee their legal rights because of the lack of storage space, and when they try to store their medical waste, they are literally transferred from one institution to another. We are talking about a country where there are almost half a million people who have diabetes, and as you know the trend is growing and that these people who are not already at risk enough with the fact that they are suffering from diabetes still have some form of humiliation because they have no place with their medical waste is completely inadmissible. It's tragic that when I asked Minister Berosch the same question, he transferred me to the Ministry of Economy as if it were none of his business. So, apart from the legal right of a person with diabetes to have a place with his medical waste, it is our duty to ensure that they have a decent care of what they necessarily need to use because of their medical condition. I'm talking about half a million citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110661	Thank you. We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 69 MPs Katarina Peovic, please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110662	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The current project provides funding based on the signature of the grant agreement for the implementation of the 5P project, disease prevention, promotion and health protection, psychological support, access and assistance to health care for applicants for international protection and is therefore not possible to increase the financial resources and therefore the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110663	Thank you. My colleagues, Peović, here's an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110664	... just clarifying that it is not about your sector where it is actually taken and what was the purpose of this amendment here, means the same as previous amendments again RF warns of items of budget that are related to dangerous historical auditism. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Here we have Marking the memories of the victims of all totalitarian, authoritarian regimes that are being introduced at the time of the crown, the war in Europe, so we have 100,000 new kunas for some purpose that is the sole purpose of historical revisionism. Marking the memory of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in practice is presented in us as an attempt to equate the working and anti-fascist movement with the fascist and Nazi regime, while Communism is generally condemned in a pronunciation while other totalitarian and authoritarian regimes actually serve fascism and Nazism exclusively as a tower in the service of equating these ideas. This is also witnessed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's statement on several occasions where he honours the victims of the communist regime, speaking of communism as one of the totalitarian systems that marked the history of the 20th century. Equality of the socialist idea with fascist and Nazi simply does not stand, and this is particularly emphasized in Croatia The National Liberation Anti-fascist Movement of Croatia, which was also socially recognized by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the holder of state sovereignty, which is seen in the decisions of ZAVNOH, is listed as a legitimate source of the establishment of the state modernity of the Contemporary Republic, and therefore we do not believe that for these reasons these features of markings should be financed. What you have said is that there is no need to increase support for providing health care to international protection seekers on several occasions we have testified that this is not the case, so I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110665	We will also vote on this amendment. Let's move on, Amendment No. 70 MPs to Damir Bajs, please welcome state secretaries to the government's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110666	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In that position, the Ministry of Health plans emergency interventions on buildings and equipment for health institutions. The State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. in that position, an amount of EUR 28 million is secured and it has been estimated that it is sufficient to provide intervention funds for a health institution, and therefore that amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110667	Amendment No. 70 governments don't accept. The proposal does not have the same amendment, and we will vote. Before we go any further, I will take the opportunity to welcome the students of elementary and secondary schools to the award-winning president of the assembly in educational programs this year and their mentors who joined us at the gallery. Good afternoon, welcome, and we wish you a pleasant stay in the assembly. Please give a big hand to the students... We're getting further, Amendment No. 71 MPs Ljubica Lukačić and representatives of Sinisha Jankača, an indication of the government of the Republic of Croatia, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110668	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110669	The government accepts the meaning of Amendment No. 71 becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 72 MPs Selak Rasludic, the government's statement, please, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110670	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds in this budgetary position are planned for the intervention of medicinal products that appear on the market and are not yet included in the list of HZZs. Since it is exclusively about the intervention financing of the supply of the product for the period from the market to the inclusion of the product on the list of HZZO, the estimated three-year plan does not require an increase in financial resources and therefore the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110671	The government doesn't accept. colleague Selak Rasudić additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110672	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. First of all, I would like to welcome the youth present here and remind them that there is a reason why there are so many empty places here because they are all waiting for you, so I hope that in the future you will fill them in, and we will testify to one assembly that will be raised by discussions in which you will participate in which no chair will ever be empty. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have therefore asked to be taken away from the rolling stock and to increase resources for medicines not on the list of HZZO medicines. The message is very simple. Instead of constantly witnessing the collection of funds for sick children and sensitization of the public because they have no way to save their children's parents but so that different donation campaigns must be set up, it would be better for the state to provide more resources for medicines that are not on the list of HZZs and thus demonstrate fundamental concern for sick children instead of falling on the back of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110673	Thank you, ask for a vote, yes, we will also vote on the above-mentioned amendment. 73rd Amendment of MP Katarina Peović. Secretary of State, please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110674	Thank you very much. The proposed amount is secured in Chapter 09620 of the state-owned health institution in the predominantly part of European funds, international loans and co-financing of capital investments under the already concluded agreements and defined financial frameworks, therefore the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110675	The government doesn't accept. My colleague Peović has an additional explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110676	Thank you. So by 2022, health leaves have decreased compared to plan means for this year by more than 4 billion kuna. The rebalancing is carried out in part in order to raise those assets that were clearly insufficient, as warned by the entire opposition. The health ministry dropped revenue from the planned 20 billion in '21. A year at 16 billion in '22. A year which, of course, is completely unrealistic, and everyone warned about it given the state of the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, a reduction in the allocation for health institutions owned by the state was planned from the planned 11 billion in '21. A year at 10 billion in '22. A year, and the minister announced a health reform. So the unreal figures are already in that budget, and they're in the rebalancing. And he announced the reform in which he said he would centralise healthcare and the state would take control of many health institutions and institutions under county control. The rebalancing left it more or less in the same amount. It's unclear how we'll centralize management if we have less resources for hospitals at the same time, and the state should pay for them. So I'm absolutely staying on this amendment, and he's taking it from the University of Defense and Security. Why, since when this amazing law on the University of Defence and Security was passed, it was said that no additional funds were needed for the university, some high funds that are clearly needed are now magically appearing in the budget, therefore it is not clear why these funds are being sought. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment and I insist on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110677	You'll have a vote of course. Amendment number 74 of Representative Bulj. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's testimony will be given by the Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110678	Thank you very much. The budget user within the division of the Ministry of Health, KBC Split, is currently at the stage of the procurement process for the production of documentation which should define the model of procurement and the financing of that infrastructure project. Therefore, an increase in the budget amounting to 3 million kuna without the total value of the investment being known, the scope of the investment as well as the supply and financing models of that project cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110679	The government doesn't accept. My colleague Bulj's further explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110680	Thank you very much. It would be strange for you to accept that because I repeat this amendment year after year. It is about KBC Split Firule, as if it were not Split and Dalmatia in Croatia, as if we were some other country forgotten. We know that there are more than half a million people in the pool of Split i.e. more because we have people in BiH who also come to Split, so in the tourist season there are over a million people but you don't care. Nor do you feel obliged to secure normal parking in the hospital in Split. It's not, it's the least you could do than every year project documentation. So does that people have the right to have the same services as they do? in Zagreb and elsewhere. We have the right, or we don't have, or you end the health care, what do we need, what do we need parking, what do we need... Well, I can't have people older who come from faraways to a Split hospital who'll park, and that's what you promised, that's your promise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unfortunately, colleagues here from Split who, from Split's pool come and vote against this. Well, go ahead and push a little bit. Nobody gives a shit. They're stuck in a chair, and that's it, like they're given to God. The only thing that rips the skin out here on, on the loose in these chairs and stuffs the costs. So I would ask you colleagues and colleagues not to accept this from me, feel free to give the amendment from these parts or you accept and provide normal conditions for at least health services and this is a non-medical part, this is a construction part very important not for Split, but for the whole of Dalmatia and Herceg Bosnia, for the whole area. Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110681	Thank you. You'll get a vote. Next amendment, Amendment 75 of MP Katrina Peovic. Government of the Republic of Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110682	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Since the construction of a new factory is under way, the proposed amount of kuna billion will not be realised in '22. the year is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110683	The amendment is not accepted. Additional explanation from colleague Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110684	Here's a thank you, once again we've learned that there are items in the budget that are not meant to be realized at all. Look, here it is, we've already heard repeatedly that there are items in the budget that are not meant to be realized at all. It means why we're even reading that budget. I mean, those are items that don't make any sense at all. E here means not only is it about an item that doesn't exist at all, but we see it not as a strange, optical trick, but the thing is that your Minister Beros has been announcing for quite a long time the revitalization of the Immunological Institute, the construction of a new factory in St. Sunday, and it puts in the budget totally unrealistic costs that can't be enough to build a new factory. At the same time, we are fully aware that we need to revitalize the Immunological, that we need the production of our medicines that Immunologically produced. I'm going to remind you of extremely high-quality blood products, immunobiological medicines, anti-snap antibodies, bacterial or viral vaccines produced by the Immunological Institute, and for years we've been spending money on suspicious imports of drugs. From 2015 to the 19th, 1.7 billion kuna was paid for this suspicious import of drugs, medicines that we could produce for some 10 times the price we produced. We are now paying 10 times the price and instead of saving money by revitalizing Immunologically we are still at a loss and we are still at a minus why? Not for providing services, not for providing health services, but for paying foreign pharmaceutical companies huge money for medicines that they could produce themselves. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted upon. I insist on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110685	We'll vote on your amendment. Goodbye! Greetings to another student and their mentors. Goodbye! Amendment number 76 of Representative Bulj. Here's an indication on behalf of the Government Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110686	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The General Veteran Hospital Croatian Pride Knin is a health institution at secondary level of health care, which since its founder, Sibenik-Knin County, has been invested in a total of 16 million kunas in the past four years, with a total of 2.6 million kuna planned in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110687	Thank you. An additional explanation from my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110688	I'd just like to say for a moment that normally you won't accept it because the Dalmatian Zagora doesn't mean anything to you. It's a very important area, where people have moved most of the way out of our Zagora. Here we are talking about the only hospital in general currently in the Dalmatian Zagorje of Neretva and Krka in the hinterland of course, not the coast. That hospital has means everything neatly has physical therapy bases, but you absolutely don't want to invest in it. That's no amount. For what? Why don't you like it now, that's the question? We in Knin celebrate the greatest victory, the victory of the Storm, the Day of Defense, and all of you come painting, there be many of you, waving flags, glorifying our city, the royal city of Knin as a symbol of victory over the Serb-ready occupier. However, as far as the Knin hospital is concerned, she is forgotten. She's forgotten, she's forgotten. You give decentralised funds to counties both Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Kninski. However, these money ends who knows di, because counties are usually a flow boiler but full of rocks so that the money di triba comes to the hospital, decentralised funds both in Knin and for the House of Health in Sinj and the other mainly in our Dalmatian Zagora, so I am saddened by what I repeat this amendment year after year. You do not accept it, but for Storm and the Day of the Croatian defenders and the Day of Victory you must come down. So that's the hypocrisy of that one day when you're all painted talking through this amendment how much you don't care about that area. And this area could reduce the crowds in Split's hospital and this hospital, in the Sibenik hospital. However, we have many valuable and quality doctors in the area And so don't make me sad, but I expected to win so I don't know how to discuss this amendment at all. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110689	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. Thank you very much. We're moving on. I call on Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic to show himself on behalf of the Government regarding the amendment concerning the Ombudsman for children. Amendment number 77 of MP Selak Rasudić, please welcome your observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110690	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Although the increase in budgetary expenditure for the protection and monitoring and promotion of children's rights is important, given the current human potential and activities that the office plans to carry out by the end of the year in order to achieve an adequate level of protection of children's rights and interests, we believe that the planned funding is sufficient to realise the activities defined by the Office's work plan for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110691	Thank you. Additional explanation of my colleague Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110692	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, what was I looking for? An emergency increase in resources for a child's attorney. And I didn't ask for it just like that, but we have a serious unrecognizable problem that nobody in Croatia is talking about. And I'll tell you what the problem is. Sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 has increased by as much as 74% compared to the previous year. Satisfaction in front of a child under the age of 15 by 62%, cheating children to meet the sexual needs of 33%. Additional resources are needed for the Ombudsman for children in order to ensure the protection of children's rights. This is a problem, a problem of pedophilia in the Republic of Croatia that nobody talks about at all in public space. I personally asked for data from the MUP because I actively follow the statistics and from there I present this comparative analysis this year and the previous year. It's time to face this problem and secure funds so it doesn't repeat itself in the future. This was my last amendment. I have proposed different amendments that mainly concern education systems, promoting the status of vulnerable social groups, reducing violence and gender equality and reducing corruption. You didn't accept any of the amendments I suggested. However, it has been an honor for me to defend these amendments here and show that the opposition through the budget has concrete proposals and solutions to build a better quality Croatia and I will continue to advocate them no matter how much You refused them, and we'll see who could last longer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110693	Thank you, colleague Selak. Uh, we'll also vote on your amendment. Now, it's 13 o'clock, we got some more, we got 18 amendments. Shall we finish, I suggest we finish the amendments and go to free speeches or something? ... Okay, then speak freely, and then change after that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Let's do one more, State Statistics Institute, one more, okay, and then we'll continue with the Croatian Waters Financial Plan after the free speeches, okay? Let's go, Amendment No. 78 MPs Katarina Peovic, please welcome a statement on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110694	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendments and additions to the State budget for '22. and projections in '23. And '4. funds are planned at the level that enable the conduct of the regular operation of the DZS, with further improvement of the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia. The funds for the purpose resulting from the amendment in question in terms of the employment of officials in vacant jobs, the increase in the salaries of officials, etc., will be planned when the pre-conditions are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110695	Thank you very much. My colleague, Peovic, is not here, so we will vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110696	We will now return to our amendments and this will be an amendment to the proposal for amendments and addition of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2022 and the projection of the 2023 and 2024 plan, the Honored State Secretary Mario Šiljeg, first of all, firstly the first amendment of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110697	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Sibenik-Knin County and Croatian Water have developed idea projects with several variants of the technical solution for water capture from the source of the river Cicola and a study of the impact of the procedure on the environment and nature. The procedure implemented to assess the impact of interventions on the ecological network has established that such an operation would significantly endanger protected fish species and the project could not further develop in this direction. The Croatian Water Management Plan for 2022 provides resources for co-financing of water research works in the Petrovic field, which should provide detailed information on the quantities of water available in the underground and the possibility of developing irrigation in the Petrovic field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110698	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110699	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, we see that in crises there is a problem of self-sufficiency and that is one of the bigger problems. However, we have a problem in the Dalmatian Zagora, which has the potential for food production and quality food, not import food, that should be invested in irrigation. Between that, of course, there comes a Drain area that is very quality, we have a country for, for food production and we see that it is growing and greater potential for tourism. So once again I would ask you to think carefully and finally go into irrigation these areas of ours, mostly which depopulation is in, because of the depopulation i.e. the departure of people from these parts to increase the gastro potential of agriculture and the production of healthy food, as well as to increase tourism. So think again, if I can withdraw the amendment, but accept this. It's no problem for me at all to discuss the amendment now, but I think irrigation is the key to this area, the impertinent area that has fallen into several thousand inhabitants and because of the Homeland War, and because we don't use this potential because simply irrigation and draining is the key to the survival of people who, more and more want to get back from the cities to the villages and invest and thus create additional value, and to us very important. So we're talking about irrigating and draining the Drainfield. So once again, I'd like to ask you, or I'd like you to call these people from these areas to go into the irrigation of the Drain, Drainous area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110700	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110701	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110702	Okay. Second amendment of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110703	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Split-Dalmatia County and Croatian Waters developed a concept... Irrigation of the Sinjsko polje, and for the location Trnovčica were designed idea projects of irrigation, idea project of draining and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] to the environment and the ecological network. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After further ontological research, the Environmental Impact Study and the Environmental Network have been updated and the process of assessing the environmental impact of the procedure and the ecological network is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110704	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110705	E Sinjsko polje is a huge potential, we know that the river Cetina, we only have the drain, and that is the problem that people farmers because of the regulation of Croatian waters that would tribal little and adapt to farmers, we have in the Sinjsko field a drought in the middle of summer, so that farmers are not paid or have fewer yields or simply can not get any yields in the Sinj field without irrigation. I am aware that there is a role of the Split-Dalmatia County which absolutely does not care about irrigation, nor is it their jurisdiction, but they are neither taking care of it, but it is the same potential of a huge 6 thousand hectares of agricultural land we know that near the Split swimming pool, more and more people coming to the area of Sinj and the Cetina area, so this would be a very important investment and again I repeat a demographic measure due to the survival of people in these areas would it be worth it to them because, I think it's unimaginable that we have through the srid of the Cetina field, and people can't irrigate the Sinj field and these are the mistakes we've been making for 10 years. Instead of taking advantage of this step and using EU funds, and there is always talk about studies, there is talk about making documentation, but there is no movement, and this is a big blow to the Chetn end, which continues to be forgotten, and mainly for Croatia as a whole. At this point, we could literally have the whole of Dalmatia the entire tourist season, so that the Sinjsko polje could produce food for our healthy vegetables, fruit and all that is needed. That's why I'm calling again for you to think about this, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110706	Third amendment of MP Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110707	The amendment is not accepted. Rehabilitation of Ritice is a prerequisite for the realization of this project. The Ričica Dam Rehabilitation Project was designed, the right flank is scheduled to be recovered directly upstream of the dam, and the area of the boiler upstream where Ričina affects the accumulation. So far, the IPA programme has developed concept solutions to the public irrigation system and the Environmental and Nature Impact Study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110708	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110709	Thank you very much. This is the same thing I can say again for the impertinent and cetin region, it's similar in the Knin area, and most of all here we're talking about the property problems that this area also has with irrigation and draining, it's similar with the peak area, the frequent floods that we have after the rain, and simply people can't survive, I mean big risks. So once again I invite you all, your fellow MPs, to think carefully about our potentials, but it's impossible to say at this time that we don't have irrigation and draining, and we boast of the large amounts of funds for this part at all. I know it's not the key ministry here, it's the roof, the county's purpose is itself, this is the jurisdiction of the Split-Dalmatia County, but it's the absolute code of the Dalmatian Zagora from Neretva to Krka is not their area, and that's why we have a lot of migration, and mostly people who would like to deal with agriculture, be competitive, and we know what self-sufficiency means, especially at this time, now that we're going to be able to buy agricultural land, and we'd like to stop it, so once again I urge you to think about this, it's high time, noon has long gone, so I'm going to ask for a clear vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110710	We now move to, thank you for the proposal to amend and supplement the Croatian Roads Financial Plan d.o.o. for the 2022nd and projection of the 2023 and 2024 Plan, the respected Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotić. First amendment of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110711	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. Project documentation for reconstruction of national roads D62 and DC76 shares Zagvozd – Imotski is under way. Problems remain with the resolution of property-legal relations that are a prerequisite for the establishment of a building permit on the sub-division through the centre of Zagvozda, upon the outset of the building permit, will be accessible to the implementation of the project documentation. It is also accessible to create an Environmental Impact Study for Zagvozd - Imotski length 20 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110712	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110713	The secretary of state just copied what was in the budget, so last year. The only difference is that the first year here was explained by the amendments by Minister Butkovic who didn't even know where it was. I'd ask him where it is on the map, you know it because you're from those parts. Nothing has changed, so I'm talking about the Dalmatian Zagora again, and the key verticals towards the Imothic, Cetin end, the Drino end, the Knin end, are simply thrown out of all thought. Every year, the same story, same story. These promises are being heard from the election cycle in the election cycle, so I can't say that there's so much state road that's been through, i.e. The highway which has passed from Zagreb now down to Ploč that is so forgotten behind and that we do not have the joints of these very potent areas which could be a demographic boom to experience with these investments. But it's just much more important to work a tunnel through Kozjak, there to Sanader's gardener where he bought Ante Sanader and his buddies, than this very important project and the Kozjak tunnel without a bridge across from the smugglers, i.e. From Po man to Kaštela is insignificant and some overpasses that would overcome that biggest problem, which is the circular flow in Solin. Now I don't know what your priorities are, which is why Zagora remains surrounded by the biggest investment that has ever been highway and most wanted. And she's tribaling the potential to connect the Dalmatian Zagora, not to bypass it. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110714	Second amendment of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110715	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have agreed to novelize the idea solution and new environmental impact studies with a solution to assess the environmental impact of the Dicma bypass. After the mayoral spatial plan of Split-Dalmatia County of the Croatian Roads has been adopted, further activities continue. In addition, Croatian roads run the purchase of idea projects for the combined road D60 to D1 at the location of Turijaca – Kukuzovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110716	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110717	Yeah, that road is 2016. Turks – Kukuzovci because... It's a compound on the Kukuzovac Zone where we would essentially bridge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of the better moves because we'd bridge that crowd we've got from Trill through the Turiacs and the Brnaza,... Brnazi where would you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'd cut and cut the route from both direction and Kamenski and from Capurir on the highway by about 7 km, and the zone would get significance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This project went to 2016. I went to the Croatian roads then and then it was introduced... documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know when I entered the Parliament, but I commend this and this triba finish this project. But the fast road from Križica to Kukuzovac is not only important for the Cetinski region, but for the Split swimming pool, the Split swimming pool from Omis, from Trogir and further up north to Omis and down towards Makarska is overcrowded. This is what I would do year by year and I don't see any more meaning of repetition. Simply the Cetinski end, Sinj would become in that moment the suburb of Split, the young people could live there, in ten minutes they would be in Split at their workplace and it is much cheaper to solve their housing problem in the area. And I don't see any reason why this project doesn't work. Because the most perspective area mainly of this project in the Republic of Croatia would be Sinj, the Cetinski end. Because it's a huge area, it has good living conditions. Everyone who works in Split, Kaštela, that pool would have the opportunity to get to work quickly and have all the living conditions as in every city. So I'm not satisfied, I'm more disappointed than anything from year to year, but we're gonna have to find other elements. So that's what people's behavior is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110718	You're asking for a vote, I presume? You're looking for a vote, aren't you? Okay. Third amendment of MP Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110719	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of the state road D33, the town of Drniš, improved the connection with the highway A1, and in addition Croatian roads produce project documentation at the level of the main project of the Drniš bypass. The planned funds are sufficient for the expected dynamics of project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110720	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110721	Every year, I mean, what does the Secretary of State say? It's the same story year after year. This reminds me of someone on an old record player, so when an old tape is always the same story, it's like you swallowed that tape and you keep repeating the same story. It's free, Secretary of State, you didn't come here, you're still from these parts, I repeat, and you're connected to both Sinja and those parts and you've been acting on your duties in the county. You are aware that I am 100% right and you are aware that this belongs to the people of Dalmatia and the Dalmatian Mountain, but it is now about Drnis and Knin. Anyway, we have to think together that this, that area would survive. We have beautiful living conditions in these areas, but you don't want to, as if you don't want to hear it, and now I don't know what to do, here's first of all as a parliamentary representative, and also as mayor. And we're glad, I've done it 100 times over, mostly the cetin end is a friendly end for you all to come to us on the alka, we expect you all, we invite you all. But something to leave behind the people, something to leave behind, is that people only come to the time of the Alka and the Great Lady, or to Knin and Drniš, in Knin for the day of the Storm, behind it remains an empty country and more and more of the elderly. And I don't understand what I'm extremely sorry about here, so I'm going to have to say I'm disappointed about what you're simply copying as a gramaphone point of the same thing, as a gramaphone board, so I'm going to ask for this vote on this, about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110722	4th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110723	The amendment is not accepted. One part of the argument was in the previous point because it was the road Sibenik-Drniš-Knin, so it was said what was done on it. An idea solution and Environmental Impact Study were developed for part of Drniš's section from the beginning of the transfer to the county road ZC-6246, and a solution on the acceptability of procedures for the environment and the ecological network was found. Croatian roads have agreed to produce all kinds of ideas and main projects with the establishment of a local and construction permit, projects were developed and a powerful Allocation license was issued in January 18th. The main projects for the first and second phases are over, and the public legal authorities' certificates have been collected, and for the third phase the main projects are in the works.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110724	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110725	Secretary Mihotic, this is all prescribed from the promises made in the parliamentary elections by the ruling majority, so there it was promised I remember not only the merger of Sibenik-Drnis on the highway and Knina of that... Areas, but even the airport I promise I remember some kind of massive that will be a world airport, but still a resuscitation, acacia, dratza, sikavica, so that simply those areas without these verticals, we speak Knin, Drnis-Knin, this Sinj-Cetin area and part of Imotski, too, Zagvozd-Imotski, is simply bypassed by the highway, it is bypassed, when we connect the north and south of Croatia we have bypassed those areas that are most potent and not enough just coming to Knin on the day of the Storm, Victory Day and Croatian Defence Day, it is not enough and it is not enough to stress and here you have repeated the same as last year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I also express great dissatisfaction with what you forgot of Sibenik-Knin County, what the promises you made in the pre-election campaign all came down to making documentation and every year making documentation, I don't know where to stop that documentation as much as you made those documents, how much money was provided. These are serious projects, they're capital, but we have eu funds and a little more serious priorities. I repeat no one is against the Kozjak tunnel, he suddenly showed up if there's an Ante Sanader having some kind of drill and then now the price is going to jump and Ante Sanader and his buddies are going to have some bigger profits... , but he doesn't solve the crucial problem of Split or traffic because of it and he's going to sell there now that firehouse some home what he did when he doctored now in Osijek he must have gotten with someone who was in Chetniks along with some guy who doctored, so this is a disaster. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110726	Are you willing to vote for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110727	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110728	Okay. 5th Amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110729	The amendment is not accepted. A study of the feasibility of the planned Zagvozd-Imotski road has been developed to take into account and planned procedures on the neighbouring BiH road network. Both procedures have been established to end at the existing border crossing of Vinjana Donji-Gorica. In accordance with the above, no alternative contact points have been considered in the wider area, and for the time being the route of the planned Zagvozd-Imotski road ends on a date with the DC-60 state road, about 2.5 km from the border crossing of Vinjani Donji, practically in Vinjani Donji. The development of an idea solution is under way and an Environmental Impact Study is under way, with a solution on the acceptability of environmental interventions, and a design of all kinds of idea projects, the implementation of geodetic and geotechnical research works, with the establishment of a local permit for the planned state road.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110730	A representative of Kujundzic is missing, so we will have to vote on it. 6th Amendment of Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110731	... Circumstances resulting from a significant increase in the price of materials and energy, which occurred in the period between the procurement process and the beginning of works. [[Last-on speaker]] The selected performer has requested a delay in introducing the job. Croatian roads try to regulate the relationship between the selected fast road performer from Križevci to Klostar Vojakovaki D-10 and the date of the beginning of the works depends on it. Croatian roads as an investor in co-operation with the ministry will propose an annex to the contract for works on the construction of the road in question in an effort to get the works started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110732	There is no representative of Jaksic, so we will have to vote on it. 7th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110733	The amendment is not accepted. In 2019, the city of Sinj produced an implementation project documentation for the rehabilitation of the stakes with the construction of the legposts... 219. in Glavice Gornje – Sinj in length of 753 metres as well as the project documentation for continuing the construction of the legpost Privija - Šuća in Glavice Gornja with D219 in length of 2.6 km. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A review of the documentation received in the professional services of the Croatian Roads identified the need for significant correction of the project documentation by conducting the administrative procedure of Šuća – Privija and the innovation of the Privija procedure – Han Hrvatska cesta will arrange future activities related to the needs of the project documentation correction for the construction of those procedures with the town of Sinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110734	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110735	Thank you very much. In fact, the city of Sinj regardless of what is the obligation of state roads, which is the state road, is ready to give all its efforts, and also the financial thing that would not be worth it to be this, the area through Glavice is mainly covered by this Privija – Han where the drawers go to school, and also in the part where concrete channels are opened on both sides and it is a state road that is terribly busy and it is very dangerous to note that through D1, I am not talking about this road through Sinj is the busiest road at the level of the year in the Republic of Croatia about 25000 vehicles pass daily on that road at the roundabout in Sinj. And I don't see any reason I know everything that happened, I've been to meetings, what's with the project, what's the problem? However, if the Croatian road is not only a priority, the city of Sinj is ready to help. Few other cities only because HDZ isn't in power, which is why you don't want to, and I as mayor will give anything to help financially. Other cities don't do that, you know that. And the county pays them, which is the purpose of itself. Just to figure out, last year, County, Sinj City, you know how much she invested in everything, in the health care of 10,000 kuna. It's the village of the President of the Republic, you're good with it, Zoran Milanovic. And here's what I'm calling him, when he comes in for an alco, and you'll see what's on that road where the people who land with the car crash into the concrete canal. We need to bury him right now, not the triba tombs just put a plate on the canal, and that's where dangerous injuries happen after death. People because of the open concrete channel that project documentation was the city of Sinj worked with Croatian roads. But if it's inconclusive, what's waiting for that paperwork? Why isn't that speeding up? The city of Sinj will give maximum effort according to its capabilities, but you cannot transfer everything, now that the mayor of HDZ is not everything to the city of Sinj. Because we have to have other tools. We have to solve this problem I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110736	The eighth amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110737	The amendment is not accepted. After the inclusion of the construction of the Lisicina tunnel in the third changes and additions of the Split-Dalmatia County of the Croatian Roads, they included the project documentation for the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110738	There is no representative Kujundzic, so we will vote on it. The ninth amendment of MP Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110739	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of the project documentation is an obligation for the management of the municipality of Dugi rat, and Croatian roads will take over the procedure in question during the construction phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110740	Representative Kujundzic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. The tenth amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110741	The amendment is not accepted. The subjective procedure is in the jurisdiction of the city of Omis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110742	There is no representative Kujundzic, so we will have to vote on that. The 11th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110743	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads and the town of Sinj signed a principle agreement on activities to improve the flow and level of traffic services on state and other roads in the town of Sinj, and especially on the most burdened part of the state road D1 in the centre of Sinja in Vukovar Street. Croatian roads have launched public procurement procedures under that agreement. Updates of the idea solution to the development of an Environmental Impact Study with the outcome of a solution on the acceptability of environmental procedures for the move of state road D1 to Sinj. Further activities under that agreement are expected to be carried out in the area of the city of Sinja, i.e. changes to the City of Sinja GUP. Realisation of this project expects a significant improvement in traffic management, including pedestrian traffic. Since the number of vehicles in Vukovar Street is expected to be reduced to over 50% teaching to meet the commitments undertaken by the town of Sin, a precise hodogram of activities will be defined, i.e. Croatian roads are ready to take further steps in terms of the design of a pedestrian hiker near the existing rotor and other important procedures such as designing, reconstruction of the crossing of Jakino gum near the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110744	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110745	The gift of Croatian roads for 300 alka was then said and was a circular current in Vukovar Street. And the city of Sinj invests a lot in designing as far as state roads are concerned, so Split Street is immediately continuing behind the municipality towards the Alkar race for documentation. And no problem at all. So we're ready to do that because I'm aware that simply a party card will block the citizens. And that vertical which you call upon, however it will not pass. Imagine the situation, I'm glad we have an underpasser in the Croats. But all the pieces from the island of Hvace, all the drawers that go to high school from that area, from Trilj, come to Sinj High. And there's life in danger. I had to break the pedestrian crossing, build barriers because then a roundabout was made on the busiest road with a pedestrian crossing. It literally threatened lives. The crowds were up... to the Croats, simply impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the busiest road. Well, don't say that, it's inconceivable to me that you've had enough of the prosciutto and the essence of HDZ to give you such a priority. I'm not having a hard time, and I'm glad it was made in the Croats, but there are 50 people passing by, and here it's a few thousand in a very short time. There's the school, there's the store, there's the centre of Sinja. It's a disaster! And you can't say it's exclusively the duty of the city of Sinj. The passenger had to make Škorić the director of Croatian Roads. Could he be ashamed? Can it be a shame and a Croatian road [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] And the ministry that you do to Sinj [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking to vote colleague Bulj?]] Let me finish. [[/Intruder Reiner: Come on, stop and say finally whether you're looking for a vote or not?]] Well, he interrupted me before. [[Intruder Reiner: I will not let you because you have already gone over 13 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110746	Watch your time. You've missed 13 minutes, then I told you whether you're looking for a vote or not, say it at last. What's the matter with my colleague Bulj?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110747	You have injured the entire Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Reiner, because you simply do not allow MPs in particular in these important topics when it comes to the budget and amendments to finish what they need to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110748	Not me, but the Rules of Procedure don't allow it, and you read the Rules of Procedure. No, you won't communicate with me. [[So let me finish. He's getting involved again for 10 seconds. So what, I think you're going to let us talk normally, to communicate, or are you going to interrupt us every two minutes?]] You're about to get a warning. [[So I have 30 seconds to finish this story because this is an important topic.]] [[I'm seriously saying these topics that are important, that threaten people's lives, and here you.../]] On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by subtracting words [[Optica Bulj: Now he will have the first warning, the second warning, the third warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110754	The amendment is not accepted. In 2019, the town of Sinj developed a project documentation for the rehabilitation of the stakes with the construction of the legpost Privija – Han with D219 in the town of Glavice Gornja in the length of 753 metres as a project documentation for continuing the construction of the legpost Privija – Šuća in Glavice Gornja with D219 in length 2.6 kilometers. A review of the documentation received in the professional services of the Croatian Roads identified the need for significant correction of the project documentation by conducting the administrative procedure of Šuća – Privija and the innovation of the Privija procedure – Han. Croatian roads will arrange future activities related to the necessary adjustments to the project documentation for the purpose of building those procedures with the town of Sinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110755	There's no representative, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 13th Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110756	The amendment is not accepted. It is near the end of the project documentation for the restoration of the Omis Bridge. At the end of the same process, recovery works will be planned. The dynamics will be consistent with the dynamics of the release of the new Omis bypass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110757	Representative Kujundzic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. 14th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110758	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 20nd and second and projections for twenty-thirds and twenty-fourths projected funds on the activities of A300008 co-financing of unclassified roads of 10 million kuna refers to the means of co-financing of winter service on unclassified roads. Subject co-financing will cover units of local self-government with mountain-mounted status. Based on the Law on mountain and mountainous areas and decisions on the coverage and classification of units of local self-government that acquire the status of the Brdsko-Moline area, as well as units of local self-government in the area of Lika-Senj County and Gorski Kotar are covered by the second and third climate zone of road maintenance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u110759	There's no representative, there's no club representative, so we're gonna have to vote on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112105	and continue with what was announced yesterday, which is a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 244. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by MP Ljubica Lukacic. State Secretary Silvio Bašić, please. Uh, excuse me, Mr. Tomislav Dulibic to show about the amendments submitted. [[Intruder: No, no, no, Tomislav Dulibic]] Here is Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112106	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112107	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 2nd same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112108	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112109	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. Let's move on, we're starting with statements on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 282. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Anka Mrak-Taritaš, representative Katarina Peovic and Green-left bloc MPs' club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments, Your Honor. Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary. First Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112366	Thank you very much. All amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112367	Thank you very much. So this is Amendment 1, Amendment 2, Amendment 3, Amendment 4, Amendment 5, Amendment 6 and Amendment 7. The Legislative Committee becomes an integral part of the law. Let's move on, Amendment of Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112368	Amendment to Art. In 19th is not accepted, adding a new section 2 which proposes to include inactive property which has unresolved property relations or disputes between the Republic of Croatia and local and regional self-government units, legal uncertainty would thus be transferred to the investor, and the proposed solution is the Institute which is already used to resolve disputes in courts and, if such an institute applies to a court decision, there is no obstacle to the application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112369	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak-Taritash is gone, so we will declare the amendment to the vote. Let's move on, the next amendment to distinguished MPs Katarina Peovic. Here you go, Amendment One, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112370	Thank you. Amendment 1 to Article 1 16 is not accepted. The full exclusion of the incentive of a number of economic activities in the tourism sector would have negative economic consequences in terms of attracting and encouraging investment not only in tourism but also in a number of manufacturing sectors that are linked to supply chains.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112371	Thank you very much. Representative Peović, would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112372	Thank you. So, here it is that really encouraging investment should not be looked at, and first of all, at the greatest ratio from the perspective of investment in the construction of new hotels, aquaparks, golf courses, sports-recreation and entertainment-thematic and tourist content, I warn that in the most developed countries of Western Europe, the share of tourism in GDP is a maximum of 5% while some estimates even say 20% if we are talking about encouraging investment, and first and foremost it would be to start from those industries and those industries that have the ability to connect to themselves other industries that have the possibility of multiple effects that have the ability to produce higher added value, and what we do not start from what you have done, and that it means another promotion and further development of that tourism that actually devas our coast, which actually takes away from our children the right to produce in their own country, and what was here was the potential for us to have a truly important investment that we do not really have the most important thing in this projecting, that we do not really have a very much, in terms, in terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112373	Thank you. We'll vote. Let's go to Amendment No. Two of the same MPs, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112374	Amendment 2 to Article 2 34 is not accepted. Namely, the provisions of Art. Article 34(1) shall comply with the acquis, including the dates of initiation and completion of the application of the measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112375	My colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112376	Yeah, that's me, thank you, you answered me yesterday, and in line with the acquis. Of course that is the final answer to many of our questions, we are in line with European directives. But be careful, this is about really having a situation where some entrepreneurs have not met those conditions that they had to achieve in view of the money they received, which is to hire new people and not to fire them. Here it is allowed that, in the period from 1 January 2020 to 6 June 2021, those entrepreneurs who received incentives and fired people will not be retired regardless of the compliance with the acquis. Our situation is somewhat different after all. We live in a country that is eighth in Europe, so at the risk of poverty, by the number of people who live in danger of poverty. We have some of the lowest minimum wage, the lowest average salary. We have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe. The first and the main thing would be not to really reward those who took the incentives, while also firing workers. And what I said yesterday I'm going to do again here because it's extremely important. If you even go, I'm here, so here in this amendment we didn't say that we would completely ignore your proposal, but only those who have permanently fired workers cannot amnesty. And if this was followed, then it was really meant to be brought into the company's profit correlation during that period and the number of people who were fired. If we have, and we know that we have companies that have high profits, and at the same time they took encouragement and fired workers, then it's really not justified that we reward them in some way. You said yesterday that there were 60 of these companies. I've also sent an inquiry to the department that are companies. We're going to compare the profits and we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112377	Thank you very much. We'll vote when the terms of the amendment are met. And the amendment of three of the same MPs, colleague Peovic, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112378	The amendment to Article 34 shall not be accepted under the abovementioned reasoning as well as the amendment two, i.e. the fact that, by applying this way, our companies would be in a worse position than the legal entities to which this Regulation applies in other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112379	Thank you. Would you like to further clarify the amendment of my colleague, Peović? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112380	Thank you. Just one brief note. It is therefore the same article and the proposal that those who have permanently fired workers, regardless of receiving support, should not be freed from their obligation. I think the argument is somewhat cynical that our companies will then be in a subordinate position to foreign companies, companies that fire workers, at the same time creating high profits are not really companies that need to be encouraged, and certainly not companies that should be given public funding and in no way link their profits to the fact that they fired workers. We know that the best way to improve the business image and the company's income is simply to fire the workers you don't need, to fix the profits of those who profited from it anyway, but I don't think the state should encourage it. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112381	Thank you. We will vote on the amendment and the last amendment to this bill is that of the Green-Left bloc advocates. I'm asking the secretary of state to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112382	Amendment 1 to Article 16 shall not be accepted. Article 16 defines the development of innovation activities and business support and high value added services in a more comprehensive way than the amendment proposes, including investments in new high value added tourism projects in line with the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, and states that the tourism project is of high added value only high-end content, i.e. four and five stars.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112383	Thank you. counterpart Urša Raukar additional explanation of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112384	Thank you. We stay with the amendment and, of course, we'll ask for a vote. We are all very full of mouths about how we need to preserve the coast, how we are fighting the destruction of the coast and illegal and legal construction. Let's just remember the mastodon in the Postiras who, this hotel that's legal, but completely changed to say and destroyed the visor of that divine place on the island of Brac. What is necessary is necessary because of the already existing reconstruction of the coastal construction primarily to invest in existing capacities which are there and which need to be restored and which need to be brought to the fore. Of course, it's possible with 4 and 5 stars, so they're creating this high added value, so brownfield needs to be invested, not in greenfield where we're going to continue to destroy that coast, and eventually we're going to destroy this tourism where we're completely wrong in monoculture, and we think that this declaration that the government and all of them represent that we need to protect the coast then and so specifically in certain legal provisions. And that's why we really appeal to change this article and to go into existing capacities so that we don't further invest that kind of destroy the coast. Here I call on my colleagues on the right to hear it, because you agree that the coast should be guarded, and then we stay with the amendments and, of course, we ask for a vote and we hope that the right side will hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112385	Thank you. You will be able to vote on the amendment. This ended with the proposed amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112651	We're moving on to the next point. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate of the next two points. So, - Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and - Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan on spent financial resources for 2021 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 7. The Mine Action Act. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, esteemed gentlemen MPs. Here is the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and 2021, and I will try to keep you informed of these two points of the agenda, but with a view to the fact that, of course, the data per year will have to focus on bringing them out for one year and for another. In any case, demining is a job that has been done in the Republic of Croatia for more than two and a half decades, it has cost an extremely large asset, but it has cost human lives, the absence of economic activity in some of the areas that have been demining, and in any case it has produced great difficulties in the normal functioning of our country throughout the war, the postwar period and here until today. So I'm going to start with this latest data that's at the end of 2021. The area of mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia was 204,4 km2, covering the area within 37 units of local self-government in seven counties. Last year, Zadar County was mined, leaving a total of seven counties to be cleaned. Mine suspected space at the end of last year was marked with 8.022 mine threat codes. I'm going to try to get the data out of these two years as soon as possible, so the total area excluded from mine suspected space in 2020. is 66,6 km2 just as planned by the mine action plan, which given the covid-19 disease epidemic, is quite a major achievement as from 20 March to 11 May 2020. the demining operations were suspended so they were not carried out. Mine demining business is in 2020. Reduced by 49.2 km2 while implementing a technical and supplementary general survey from a mine suspected area excluded 4.2 km2. The implementation of the general mine-suspecting survey is in 2020. Off and an additional 7.2 km2. All these exclusions represent a full implementation of the plan. Current financial plan for mine action operations in 2020 It amounted to 421 million 127 thousand 291 kuna and was reached almost entirely, i.e. 417 million 682 thousand and 723 kuna or 99.18%. And in 2020. successfully attracting funds from EU funds for demining operations has been continued, through the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion for the period 2014-2020. a total of 43.04% of total demining funds spent in 2020, hence 43% of the funds spent in that year were from eu funds. For demining in 2020. financial resources have also been fully achieved from the position of compensation for the use of the common useful functions of forests provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the amount of 50 million kuna, which is also the continuation of successful cooperation and systematic demining of economic forests. On the occasion of demining operations in 2020 The MAP issued certificates of exclusion of the area or of the building from mine suspected space, found and destroyed 5,376 pieces of mine explosives and 4,047 unexploded killings. For the second year in a row, this has been an extremely large and multiple increase in mine-based mines and NUS mines as compared to previous years, which is also the result of optimised planning and implementation of demining operations. And in 2020. A mine suspected space marking system has been maintained through the control activities set up and the setting of additional markings indicating the mine danger and the possible discovery of unexploded means of killing. On 1 January 2020, The mine suspected space was marked with an 11,540 plate of mine danger. In that year, a mine incident was reported in the Municipality of Josipdol in Karlovac County because when a civilian person was injured from mine during the cutting of the forest within a defined and marked mine suspected area, so the person outside entered a marked mine suspected space. During 2020 A total of 47 mine danger educations were held in six counties in the area of 22 cities and municipalities, which was somewhat less than usual because you yourself know the restrictions imposed by the covida pandemic. In 2020, military sites and buildings were demined, carried out by the Engineering Unit in accordance with the Mine Action Act, which regulates the demining of military sites and buildings. The demining of military facilities was planned for the military polygon Eugen Kvaternik in Slunj in an area of 248.506 three metres square and in Military Colonel Mirko Vukusic in Zemunik Donji near Zadar in the area of 353.580 meters of mine suspected space. The execution of these works on military facilities found, removed and destroyed 70 anti-walking mines and 184 pieces of various unexploded killings until anti-arming mines were found that year. As for last year, 2021. A total of 45.8 km2 has been excluded from mine suspected space from which 34.1 km2 has been excluded in demining operations and 11.7 km2 by implementing a technical, supplementary, general and general survey of an additional 11.7 km2. However, by conducting a general reconnaissance, and based on new knowledge of mine pollution in a mine suspected area, an additional area of 0.8 km2 is included in mine suspect space. Therefore, according to all of these activities in the last year, a total of 45 km2 has been returned to use by the community. Financial plan for mine action in 2021 It amounted to 384 million 932 thousand 646 kuna, with 94% and 360 million 038 thousand 850 kuna respectively. And in the last year, attracting funds from eu funds was very successful, slightly less than a year ago, but in the past year, 35% of the funds were made up of eu funds. It is particularly valuable to point out that the EU's overall contribution to the operations of mine action in the Republic of Croatia amounts to around 183.4m euros, a total of around 20% of the funds invested in demining in our country. After major projects by Naturavita and Fearless Velebit late last year, at the end of August last year, demining activities began on the project Karlovac Karst, whose realisation of a total of 17.1 square kilometers of the Karlovac County will be freed from mines and mine dangers, and mine suspected area in the county will decrease by 40%. The total value of these three major projects, which I mentioned, which were financed by eu funds and 85% of eu funds, is 15% from national funds, so there are 550 million kunas that make up EU grants. With the realization of these large three projects, mine suspected space was reduced by almost 59 km2. Last year, too, the provision of funds for the use of the common useful functions of forests from the Ministry of Agriculture for Forests and Forest Land was continued and 54.5 million kuna was secured from that position last year and all funds were fully realised. So, compared to the planned area of exclusion from mine suspected space in the last year, it's a little less than planned. This is due to adverse weather conditions which made it impossible to carry out the geodetic measurement and to issue certificates of exclusion from mine suspected space, as this concludes the demining business. For a total surface area of 11 km2 so in this area of Karlovac County and on the mountain of Velika Kapela. In carrying out demining operations in areas in which a certificate of demining or mine-suspecting construction was issued last year, 1262 pieces of mine explosives and 810 pieces of unexploded killing funds were also found, therefore somewhat less than in the year preceding which the number of funds found was recordable. Unfortunately, in 2021, There have been two mine incidents in the Municipality of Saborsko in Karlovac County a group of 18 migrants from Pakistan illegally entered the Republic of Croatia and passed through a marked mine suspected area. In that incident, seven people were killed, two of whom were killed, and four were injured more easily. There were no mine victims in the second mine incident that also took place in Karlovac County in the municipality of Vojnic. We would also like to point out on this occasion that unfortunately, at mine demining operations and in general mines and mine accidents and incidents in our country in total, 606 people were killed in 204 deaths, with 217 pyrotechnics killed, of which 65 were fatal in this total figure, which I said of 606 persons. It is large and difficult to compensate, I would say an irreparable loss and we must do everything possible to make up for this remaining period by the end of 2025 and until the beginning of 2026. as the Republic of Croatia has also committed itself by signing the Ottawa Convention to ensure that all of our counties and units of local self-government are free of mines and thus to say so we can breathe and realise these economic and other potentials that are threatening us as long as there is no mine in our country. When we talk about this suffering, I mentioned this education on mine danger and last year there were 89 educations with a total of 4165 people of different age groups in the 5 counties area. In this case, it may be a happy circumstance that this is the marking of mine suspected space that we always point out here because many people who come to an area are those hunters, tourists, hikers, hikers who don't know where everything is demining, if they don't see the markings very easily they'll enter mine suspected space and die. Since 2004 though. We do not record the loss of children from mines, and until this time in the past year and the loss of migrants from mines, from 2014 until last year no civilians were killed, and we considered this to be an exceptional achievement, which is unfortunately, last year, the loss of migrants in Josipdol was interrupted. All other components of mine action such as the care and assistance of mine victims, international co-operation, reporting and affirmation of new norms and international contracts in the Croatian system during the past and before last year has been carried out within the framework of planned activities with possible restrictions caused by the pandemic. I would say in the end that anyone who says evil can produce something useful, developed in Croatia, has developed considerable domestic demining capacities within companies, therefore individuals. Currently in demining business for 42 companies of which 2 companies have only machines, the rest have pyrotechnics, a total of about 570 almost 6 hundred pyrotechnicians including a workshop manager and assistant employees, we have 104 dogs for mine detection and 43 machines that worked on demining operations last year. Here's hoping I've covered what's been going on in the last 2 years. In demining business. We are left to conclude once again, demining 7 counties, this year it is planned to demining the entire Požega-Slavon County, next year Osijek-Baranja and Sibenik-Kninska and then remain in this 2004, 2024 and '25. mine 4 counties, Split-Dalmatia, which only remained in Dinara and 3 are still the most polluted Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka and Lika-Senjska. I also believe with your support that we will all succeed together and free our country from mines, finally 30 years old. After the end of the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112653	Thank you. Before we move to replicas, we have a request for a break from the respected representative Pavliček on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112654	Dear Chairman, we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to consult again on this report, but also to point out that Croatia is the only EU country that still has mine suspected areas, and that Croatia has been since '95. When she systematically set out to demining the Croatian area to this day she spent about 7 billion kuna, 7 billion kuna, that's about 8 hundred kindergartens, that's the rehabilitation of 10 county hospitals, that's thousands of different demographic measures. Unfortunately, much of these funds have gone from their own budget since 2015. from the EU budget. But those who are the most responsible for setting mines across Croatia, which is today the Republic of Serbia and its paramilitary troops have not paid any kuna, nor the demining interest of Croatia. The question arises what has Croatian diplomacy done on this issue? Has any of our diplomats ever asked the Republic of Serbia if it will participate and is it intended to participate at least partly in the demining of Croatia? Never anyone. And this is the shame of Croatian diplomacy, and this only shows that Croatia must still fight the consequences of large-scale aggression today not only through the restoration of its areas but also today here is the 22nd. i.e. 24 years old. from peaceful reintegration with the demining of its own areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112655	Of course the break is approved, in accordance with Article. 293.b. We will continue, so let's go with the replicas, the first respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic, forgive Katarina Nemet, forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112656	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's a first chance I'd like to take advantage of and thank all the pyrotechnics who actively participated in the demining of Zadar County. I think it is very important for the very lives of all residents in the county and for advanced economic development. You said in your report that if the demining was predicted by 2026, the entire Republic would be interested in how much is that possible and how much will it cost us in the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112657	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112658	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. I certainly take the opportunity to thank all the pyrotechnicians, there's a big job behind them, and as I've brought out great sacrifices, we believe and hope that the victims will no longer be, there's still work, and according to all the projections he should finish by the end of 2025. And then early '26. So let's do this whole paper-shaped thing. The Zadar County is therefore demining, the people of Zadar County can turn to their jobs peacefully and safely. You've seen every year we usually provide about 400 million kunas of funds from the budget, which is from this generally useful function of the forest, which from international means and we believe that these next four years will be enough about a billion and a half to two billion kuna for the whole job to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112659	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112660	Thank you. You mentioned Licko-Senj County yourself. So it's a county that's one of the mines most polluted in the Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War. After reconnaissance and marking in 2005, there were 200.6 km2 mine suspected areas. At the end of last year, it was about 86.7 km2 in the 9 cities and municipalities of Lika-Senj County. It's done a lot in those 25 years. Found and destroyed about 35,000 explosive remains of war. A billion kuna was spent, agricultural areas were demined. What's left is demining forest areas in hill-mounted areas, and we know it's the most demanding part of demining operations due to field and plant configuration. Will we be able to clear Lika-Senj County in the planned period until 2026 and return that land to the inhabitants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112661	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112662	Dear Mrs. Pocrnic, the Lika-Senj County is certainly the most polluted county at the moment, and since it is a mountainous county bounded by Plješevica, Velebit, Veli and Mali Kapel and numerous other mountains, the forest mountainous and somewhat more accessible area for mine. However, according to all plans by the end of 2025, Licko-Senj County should be freed and safe from mines. Infrastructure, settlements and agricultural land have been demining the most almost entirely before, and so there is this forest land that Lika is filled with, but there are still a lot of mines and a lot of work ahead of us, but it will be completed by the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112663	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112664	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, last year when we had a report on 2019, then I asked you about education, and that year there were 152 educations. You agreed with me that they should continue to be more proactive, especially in the media sense, so more work on education needs to be done. However, in 2020 there were 47 educations, 2021. 69 plus 20 through the Natura Vita project, so 89. Personally, I think there is still room for improvement, that there should be more education for the civilian population, especially for children, farmers, etc. What do you think you're gonna do in that sense, will you turn it up a little bit? As far as the 2022s are concerned, as far as the Less Arms campaign is concerned, I think there's still a lot of work to be done here, as well, because, as far as the report shows, there are discarded pieces of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112665	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112666	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, that you have well noticed that these educations and have some connection to this less weapons action, less tragedy, is happening, unfortunately, to mention that sometimes irresponsible persons are getting rid of unwanted weapons by throwing it somewhere. Instead, and once again I call upon all citizens to do it for free and without any sanctions to call the police and the police will come for such a weapon and they will take it and the citizen will not bear any sanctions. Exactly the figures, as you said, the figures say everything in these two reports and there were fewer, fewer educations both in the past and in the previous year. They're the sole result of the situation and the pandemic. And I think that's what it's doing, that it's going to take this year and next years to increase that number of educations because only education prevents people from getting killed by mines. And I agree with you, it's necessary and necessary and we'll do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112667	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112668	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a few weeks ago, we had an 18th International Anti-miny Symposium that was in Vodice this year, and there were a number of exhibitors from several countries, and so were Croatian companies and CROMACs, and with all the activities of panels and topics, the main theme was Ukraine and just our experiences from the Homeland War and somehow our companies and private deminers who have the most experience when we look at Europe as a whole, but they lack a little country and the Ministry itself, so I'm curious whether you're in contact with them or whether the Ministry is working on preparations to help Ukraine because eventually this war is going to end, Ukraine is big, and they'll have problems with mines for the next two decades like we had. Are you preparing, are you talking to our private companies, we've gone far away and it can be one completely new and the humanitarian but economic market? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112669	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112670	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic, that's correct. The war in Ukraine, as we know, did not begin 3 months ago, but began about 8 years ago and over the past years there have been contacts and official Ukrainian authorities with the authorities of the Republic of Macedonia and have been coming and asking questions about our demining model. In Ukraine, some of our citizens who have already worked in CROMAC and demining institutions acted, so that the government of Ukraine is well aware of our opportunities. Now in Ukraine, the situation as it is, hence the serious war situation, these jobs cannot be seriously done, but as soon as possible, the Republic of Croatia will engage with its capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112671	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112672	Dear Secretary of State, both reports and for 2020, 2021 are truly commendable and it is clear that mine action and a plan to exclude territories from mine suspected areas are moving forward. And it's good, so we saw it in 2020. 60.6 km2 off and in 2021. 45.8 km2 excluded from mine suspect area. However, what interests me so little, and I would like to hear your answer, the Split-Dalmatia County has a mine suspected area of 2021. 18.1 km2, and the plan to exclude mine suspected area from Split-Dalmatia County is very unambitious. In 2020, only 0.1 km2, and in 2021. 0.6 km2 even though 0.9 is quite unambitious Considering that [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's about a county that lives on tourism. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112673	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112674	Dear Mr. Brkan. Yes, numbers against numbers are difficult to speak they usually clearly describe the situation. In recent years, there have been occasional focussing on a particular county to free it, although, of course, everyone else and everything else is equally important. In Split County, as far as I am aware if I am not mistaken, there are mostly some areas still in Dinara, so in the mountainous area and Svilaja, which is of course not irrelevant, there are more and more hikers who visit our beautiful mountains, but here may be an opportunity for the authorities themselves from the Split-Dalmatia County to work together with the MUP to get more involved as soon as possible in demining the area. But we have the capacity we have and we have a plan to finish it all by the end of '25. I hope that Split will be sooner. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112675	Thank you. Dear representative Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112676	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here you pointed out in your statement that demining Croatian surfaces and mine action is one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in the area of security in which it has been very successful and invested for 25 years. I will take advantage of the opportunity to praise the great achievement in my Zadar County, which included three cities, Benkovac, Obrovac and Zadar and three municipalities of Pakostana, Polac and Stankovci and thus the Zadar County is completely excluded from the mine suspected area. My question is, how many pandemics did COvid-19 actually affect demining, and is this why this process was slowed down?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112677	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112678	Your Honor, Madam Representative. Of course it affected her, I already said that about seven weeks in 2020. During that lockdown at the end of the 3rd, 4th and half of the 5th months, the demining did not run; after that, despite some closures, the demining was not continued, but of course not in that volume which would not have been such a situation. Surely we would be forward in some cases, here is another county such as Zadar where the recent years have been intensively done in the area around the Vranska Lake and there is indeed intensively done and it is eventually completed, so it is returned to the area and to the farmers, but also to tourists that they can freely use it. I hope there won't be any more restrictions like this and we'll be able to get this job done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112679	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112680	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are the Croatian pyrotechnicians who are really a feather about this job and at the world level, so I wonder how many pyrotechnicians are currently in Croatia and how many licensed demining companies are there?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112681	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112682	Dear Mr. Pavlich. Of course, I agree with you, none of which have become obvious according to the data that I have provided and which are generally not so dangerous in Croatia right now, probably even in the world, so such a job is dangerous in all countries, but this profession is therefore dangerous. We currently have 397 pyrotechnics in the system of them plus we still have 108 workers who are very important in the context of this job, 67 auxiliary employees, so about 570 total people who work, plus we have about 65 people in the Croatian Centre and the MUP within the Croatian Mine Action Centre who also, as I said, work a general technical survey also participate in the exclusion of that suspicious space, so one who no longer question excludes it from mine suspected space. We have 42 companies that are currently working. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Like I said, two only with machines. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112683	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I would kind of refer to the replica of my colleague Jura Brkana when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County, namely, it is important to stress that military spaces and complexes such as Vis, Žrnovnica and Kukuzovac in the area of the town of Sinja mean that these spaces are cleaned in the area of mine explosive means and that they can be brought in quite an economic purpose, and these other areas are about 19.5 km mainly as you mentioned in the inaccessible mountain areas of Dinara and Svilia. However, here we have the knowledge that more and more time is doing its own and the signs are sort of alienating, you know, there are tourists who want to take this warning sign of replacement as some souvenir which is incomprehensible to us, but it puts an increasing number of hikers outside the tourists and beekeepers who come into those areas, so please pay attention in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112685	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112686	Dear Mr. Brcic. Yes, there are always strange people with strange tendencies, and I'm surprised that they don't know that by the way they put people who go somewhere in good faith, the space has been marked, and by passing some of these people I mentioned there is no warning. It is true that in the Split-Dalmatia County we still have a total of 10% of areas that are not demining. I don't think that's the most vital area, of course... but I would never rule out that area of these beautiful mountains if it were irrelevant. It is also important from an economic point of view, but for entertainment, tourism that attracts more and more people, so I believe that soon they will be available to anyone who wants to visit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112687	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112688	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will relate to my colleague Brčić, he said that some would remove these tables and carry home as souvenirs or use them, but there is also the opposite example, which is when these tables would have been taken to places that were not mine-suspecting. Do you have any knowledge of that? First of all, here was a situation related to hunters who would leave those tables so that actually travelers would be driven from areas that they found interesting to hunt. And another thing, ten years ago, I noticed that mine suspected areas were growing, or in some counties where there was no demining that there were new mine suspected areas. How was that possible and did it ever actually happen that someone had examined an area that had come as mine suspected in what way it had come, was there a malversion or a word of crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112689	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112690	Dear Mr. Zekanovic. Any abuse of these boards with warnings of mine suspected space is punishable by law and therefore if someone did so to prevent a hunter from going to an area, it must be punishable and it must not be done and subject to sanctions. Your second question is possible to increase mine suspected space based on some subsequent findings. How do we even know there's a mine suspect space somewhere? For some areas we know clearly because the struggles were fought for a long time, first our army, the police told us where the mines were set, later on, there were some maps, some maps with marked minefields, all of them included, but other than what was on the paper and what the witnesses said were later reported and some other witnesses indirectly heard the stories. Some were specific and proved to have mine suspected space And some don't. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Last year it's like that in 0.8 km. increased mine suspected space. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112691	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112692	With new data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112693	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I want to publicly thank you once again for your report, but also for the pyrotechnics who work responsible and life-threatening work. In fact, the war ended a long time ago, but the enemy left such a mess that, in fact, for those pyrotechnics today, he never stopped the war, and once again, they have my deep respect. I'm glad she also told a colleague that Zadar County is finally cleared of mines and that we can now live with full lungs. I'm interested in the fact that our enemies of the South Army and the Chetniks are now able to cooperate after so much time to make it easier for these pyrotechnics to detect mine explosive fields? And do they really cooperate or continue not to cooperate as they are not So far we've been working together? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112694	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112695	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, here's what I'm going to find out is that I'm just as glad as Zadar's origin that our county is freed from mines, but I'd like the other seven counties to have citizens, residents of these counties as soon as possible. Co-operation with the enemy and in the post-war period is always difficult, but it is also necessary, I would not know you now as much and as accurate numbers as I am, not available at this time with them, but there were of course cases that we also received data from the enemy side. They're valuable, if they come to the future from this moment on, they're welcome. We invite them to talk, not only on this matter, but on the question of victims whose tomb is still unknown and many issues that must be resolved after each conflict. You know who started the conflict, but after the conflict, when some peace is signed, then you need to talk about how to restore life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112696	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Secretary of State, Associates. I am very pleased with everything the Mine Action Centre is doing as the coordinator of all these activities, of course the MUP. What I want to point out in particular is a good kind of cooperation that we and the county have with the Demining Centro because they always respect the opinions and actually the needs of the county for maybe another view than was originally planned. That's very important. The County knows its needs best, especially when it relates to the tourist part or to some part that is important to the county and may not be recognized from the national level. That's what I think that communication is great, and that's the way to move on. And I especially commend the education program, I know him well because the ambulance has some experience with it and general cooperation in work, so here's my personal satisfaction. Everyone who works there. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112698	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112699	Your Honor, Madam Representative. You said everything, but this job is based on good planning, that's true, but sometimes we have a situation that, despite the plan, needs to be more urgent because some things happen, so life didn't stop at a given moment, so it tries to meet local self-government units to demine something maybe before the planned deadline. It is possible, of course, in some limited range not entirely because it would violate our plans. Education and in response to the lady... I mentioned it is very important, I call on everyone who does so not to stop, so what is the solution to this problem near the end, but it has not stopped and in these remaining four years it is important to the last day of education that someone does not get hurt in the last days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112700	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112701	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In your speech you said that this year you plan to completely demining Požega-Slavon County, and by the end of next year of Osijek-Baranja County, how many forest and agricultural areas are still left in mine suspected areas? Are the funds provided for the full demining of these areas and have such areas actually been classified as priority precisely because of the fact that as many agricultural areas as possible should be put into operation as soon as possible because of the larger working surfaces of our farmers and, in fact, because of the increase in food and everything that awaits us in this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112702	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112703	Dear Mrs Vlasic Iljkic, that these two counties remain this year. She's been gone for a few years now, so there's no big surface that needs to be demining, but there's something left. Osijek-Baranja has more. Since the beginning of demining began when demining first settlements, infrastructure, all that is necessary for one, the first return of people and that basic life. Of course, other than roads and infrastructure, agricultural land had to be demined. That's what it's done. There remains forest land that is not less valuable, and it is very valuable in our country, certain swampland, certain canals, reefs. It is a demanding job in Osijek-Baranja County, especially in Kopački rit and along the Drava River, it is not always possible to work there in a certain part of the year, but here we believe that this plan will be fulfilled That county also cleans up mines. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112704	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112705	Thank you. In both reports, only pyrotechnics are mentioned twice, only in the context of their injury or death, but I will remind you that in September 2020, the pyrotechnics had a protest here on Mark's square. At that moment, 70 of them were fired. They rebel and what is their basic problem are low pensions, and among other things, wages varying according to how much they work on the ground. Bozinovic then told them that money has more than ever. It means both from the EU and domestic funds, but then the question is, where are the money? Have their questions and their problems related to their material status been resolved and have their material rights been improved ever since and in what status of pyrotechnics is in the context of the labour rights and labour rights of these workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112706	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112707	Madam, I repeat once again that this job is responsible, dangerous, highly dangerous and very few people would want to do it with their choice. They've made that decision, and they're doing it very well. There's a special law on the rights of pyrotechnics. Under special law, I can go to early retirement. It is true that if a certain month is done less working days that the salaries, or at the end of those receipts are lower because they are honored in some additions, work on the ground is, and then you can't return it if there was no rain, snow or any other circumstances. I think the state has done a lot in terms of the material rights of pyrotechnics. Whether it could be more is always a question, but it is a population that has always been given great attention to solving their material, material and financial position. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112708	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112709	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, my question is actually in the direction of what my colleague Simicevic asked. So, I, I would ask if you could tell me more specifically, so is there any kind of dialogue with the Republic of Serbia about getting these maps of minefields? So, if there's anyone who owns this activity, does your ministry or the Foreign Ministry? And how if such a dialogue exists, how does it work because we can all call here and we'll all call the Republic of Serbia to, that they deliver that information. What they, I mean everyone who worked, and I did have a chance to do this on missing persons issues, it doesn't work like that. So is there an option to be within their approach process whether there was any thought about asking it as one of the issues discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112710	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112711	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that's certainly one question that's hard, contacts have been and there are. Are they systemically difficult enough for everyone to agree on? As long as we still have areas where mines are found, and they're not in whose cards it means that, and you can reasonably suspect that they've been set up by the enemy, given where they are, then each of us will say that this job is not good enough. He is burdened with various other issues you know and yourself so that he is not, often he cannot be viewed separately from all other packages of solving all the aftermath problems or problems arising from the war itself. That this should be given more attention, I agree, and it is certainly the obligation of anyone who is at this point in power to finish this job as soon as possible and with the possibility of any sacrifice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112712	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112713	Here's the esteemed we've had opportunities in these discussions and replicas to hear almost all the data as from your reports of what a terrible accident happened after the war. In fact, one group for which the war is still going on are our people engineers, anti-miny pyrotechnics, certainly agree with a colleague who advocates that their status is absolutely improved in terms of material, social, any other sense, but also what Mr Glavasevic said with the Republic of Serbia, BiH, Montenegro needs to establish any contact that these minefields, that as few people who work to discover these fields and deactivate them, expose their lives. Work on it, this isn't a question, this is a commitment to all of you. There's really no obstacle to how you pass it on to the minister and the prime minister to advocate it. to finally get rid of those questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112714	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112715	Mr. Representative, I'll just say I accept your suggestion and agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112716	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112717	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here I am using the opportunity to express my satisfaction with the demining state in the area of Osijek-Baranja County where, mainly in the area of Baranja, through the Naturavita project, almost everything was demined, practically all agricultural areas, agricultural areas, a large, large part of the forest surfaces, there is a little bit more in Kopački rit of space that is hard to reach and as such it is difficult, difficult to approach this one. This demining situation in the last year was planned 4.3 km2 and the plan was fully implemented in the past year, so that there are still about 12 to 13 km2 in the Osijek-Baranja County area, which contributes significantly not only to economic development but also to the development of tourism in the Baranja area and all parts of it, so please comment or if we could expect this rest to end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112718	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112719	As I was saying earlier, it is planned that all demining operations in the Osijek-Baranja County end in 2023, so next year. I believe that this will contribute to further development, overall economic development, and especially to the tourism development of Osijek-Baranja County, in this case in particular Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112720	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, but before that, we'll take a short technical break by 15 and 40 and then we'll start with the clubs. [[It's 3:30 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.44 HOURS]] Here's the break is over, so we open the debate and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative Marijan Pavliček will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112722	Dear Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. '95. The war officially ended with military redistributive actions of Flash and Storm and ended with the end of the peace integration on January 15, '98. Croatia has indeed entered the peace period. Unfortunately, Croatia is today 24 years old. Since the end of peace integration still suffers the consequences of war destruction. After military redistribution and after peaceful reintegration, mass reconstruction of family houses, residential buildings, a major reconstruction of the infrastructure that was destroyed in the war, however, today Croatia is spending considerable financial resources on demining, namely we are the only EU country that still has mine suspected areas. So far, Croatia has spent around 7 billion kuna on demining only, mostly on own budget funds since 2015. We have also managed to get some funding from the European budget. 7 billion kuna is 3 Peljeska Bridges that could have been built without European money, it is 800 kindergartens of newly built, it is 10 rehabilitations of the county hospitals, and a large part of them are indeed in a catastrophic state and those who are the main and responsible for it, which is the current Republic of Serbia, these are its paramilitary units that have not given us any kunas, nor the demining of the Croatian country. What hurts even more is that Croatian diplomacy and Croatian foreign policy never openly and clearly said and raised the issue in talks with representatives of the Republic of Serbia's resolution ministry. Croatia had to and had to seek war compensation for this amount of finance it itself gave to demining the Republic of Serbia, Croatia had to and had to ask that the Republic of Serbia if nothing else co-financed part of the demining costs, thus building good neighbourly relations. I will not talk about the real economic loss for Croatia which is difficult to assess because for 10 years our farmers could not reach their ores, 10 years of Croatian forest cannot manage their property because it is still part of mine suspected area, all of which are huge financial resources, without talking about war victims, so far there have been more than 525 deadly victims of mines throughout the Republic, of which more than 40 members of Mungos and other companies dealing with demining or pyrotechnics. Although we are indeed here at the very top as far as demining is concerned, unfortunately, there are always accidents like this because it is a very difficult and demanding job where you have to be extremely focused all the time and the human error is unfortunately unforgivable. I'm glad that here's another county, in this case Zadar demining, that we have 7 more counties left and I really hope that the planned deadlines will do so, but once again I appeal to open up the issue of responsibility of the Republic of Serbia and its financing or at least co-financing of these enormous one-off costs because it is indeed primarily the guilt of its huge Serbian aggression and the consequence that its paramilitary troops across Croatia have sown thousands and thousands of murderous missiles of which, unfortunately, are then the least guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112723	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Josip Djakic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, Ministry of Defense. So here are two reports that are united to discuss this mine action and what do you say? After 30. Since the beginning of the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia is still making the most of its efforts to demining mine suspected areas. The so-called security consequences, as well as the inability to exploit mine suspected land, have had a strong impact for many years on the development of those areas that have been affected by war events, and thus on the development of society as a whole. The pollution of mine explosives, as well as unexploded killings, is a constant threat to the victims of the Republic of Croatia, to brakes, to exploit the overall potential of mine polluted counties, to the effective implementation of fire protection and control of the state border, and to carry out various rescue and handling actions following technological incidents. When we talk about demining, we aim to maintain and strengthen public security, but also to reduce the pollution of land by mines and explosives, which is a major economic humanitarian and general social problem. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the Action Plan 2020-2021, which is intended to inform the public about the activities, the objectives made as well as the financial resources provided for that purpose. The mine action plan is in line with the Ministry of the Interior's strategic plan 2020 to 2022. At the end of 2021 the area of mine suspected areas of the Republic of Croatia was 204,4 km square within 37 units of local self-government in 7 counties and was marked with... mine dangers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to 2020, mine suspected area was reduced by 45 km square in such a way that 45.8 kilometers were excluded from mine suspected area and mine suspected 0.8 km. At the end of 2021, the state of mine suspected areas by county remained Ličko-senjska 86.7 km2, Karlovak County 38.1 km2, Sisak-moslavina 34.8 km2, Split-Dalmatia 18.1 km2, Osijek-Baranja 11,1, Sibenik-Kninska 9.3, Požesko-Slavonska 6.3 km2. As we can see, still the largest areas of mine suspected areas are located in the area of Ličko-Senj County, as well as the Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina County, while in 2021, the entire mines cleared Zadar County. The mine suspected area was situated in the three cities of Benkovac, Obrovca, Zadar, and the municipalities of Pakostane, Polac and Stankovci. It covered an area of 9.3 km2. In view of the outbreak of covida-19 disease in the period from 20 March to 11 May 2020, all demining operations were suspended, so we must praise this action plan for 2020, which is fully implemented according to all the objectives set. Unfortunately, mine incidents have also occurred. In 2020, a mine-free incident took place in the Municipality of Josipdol in Karlovac County, and in June 2020, a civilian was injured while cutting the forest, and in 2021 two mine incidents occurred in the Karlova County. The first occurred in the Municipality of Saborsko when during the movement of a group of 18 civilian immigrants from Pakistan through a marked mine suspected area, 7 people were killed, 2 sustained serious physical injuries, and 4 minor injuries. Another incident occurred in the municipality of Vojnic where there was an activation of an unexplosive asset during field work but there were no human casualties or serious consequences. A total of 606 people have been killed in mine accidents so far, with 204 fatalities. During 2020, a total of 47 educations were held on mine danger in six counties in the area of 22 towns and municipalities. The educations included about 4600 people, while since 2021, the district civil protection offices have maintained a total of 69 mine danger educations covering 3416 people of various age groups but the highest number of children of preschool and school age as well as target populations of the local population, municipalities and cities with mine suspected area. In view of the need to implement anti- epidemiological measures, education is mainly carried out in a reduced volume and with a smaller number of persons. The financial plan in 2020 amounted to 421 million 127 thousand 291 kuna and was realised in the amount of 417 million 682 thousand 723 kuna, or 99.18% and in 2021. 384 million 902 thousand 646 and 94% were realised, i.e. 360 million 038 thousand 850 kuna were spent and we can say that the successful trend of insurance of EU funds continued. Not all funds from the source of the operational programme are realised competitiveness and cohesion in 2014-2020 because due to weather conditions, demining on the project Karlovac has not been completed. The financial resources from the fee position for the use of common useful forest functions are secured from the Ministry of Agriculture and are fully realised. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the implementation of demining works in 2020, 2021, with the optimal use of available resources and real impact achieved. The priority of engagement was to demining mine suspected areas in... Colonel Mirko Vukusic in Zemunik Donji, and at the military range Eugen Quaternik in Slunj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All works of demining military sites and buildings in 2021 were carried out effectively without even one extraordinary event, which primarily indicates good training and consistent application of prescribed humanitarian demining procedures. Thanks to the built-up system of mine action, the necessary knowledge and skills of people dealing with this problem and specific testing polygons, we can respond to any challenge in the mine action segment, and offer the highest quality operational testing but also participate in the most challenging research and development projects for mine detection in the world. The Republic of Croatia has experience that we have gained in a difficult way, but today and in the future we can offer our help to others. Aware of the time in which we live war in Ukraine, we will certainly offer our help in terms of specialized companies and experts as well as delivering the most modern techniques of domestic manufacturers. Which I welcome and congratulate because they are at the very top of the world with their technological achievements and exceptions. And finally, I want to thank all the stakeholders who allow us to clear the ground of mine explosive devices and I believe that by 2026, as planned and foreseen by the Republic of Croatia will be a safe, free and clean land without mines. The HDZ Club will make, of course, support the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and '21. The year remains awake until Croatia is clear from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112725	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative and vice president of this house, Davorko Vidovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112726	Vice-President, honored gentlemen from one ministry and another, so here's the report, even though I haven't dealt with this problem more intensively for 10 years, I've come up with a lot of things. For example, when I led the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2001, '02. And '03. The year someone told me I'd be in '22. In the Croatian Parliament, I would probably say that he is very pessimistic. But time has passed, we have this problem but fortunately we see its end. Why is it important to still have a public focus on this problem? Simply because of the fact that as long as a mine is a danger to any citizen of our country or to a tourist, God or any child until the war in Croatia is over. It's a war after the war. The mine danger and mine problem that we as a country have faced is indeed a unique experience of an EU member country. We faced this problem and we handled it as best we knew and learned it and I would say we demonstrated actually a slightly underrated creativity and the ability of us, our people, our experts to give creative answers to the problems this country faces. We've created a kind of an arguerrel innovation. The formation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was a model of study in the world, so that the experience that we gained in such a professionally organized system, the management and management of mine action, the education of people, the construction of polygons, and in particular the mobilization of Croatian intelligence and knowledge on finding and innovation or the creation of brand new machines for cleaning minefields, work and innovation related to protective equipment have become truly what someone had previously noticed in the world and what I would say niche in which Croatia proved to be the top-of-the-line this organized with a top product. The necessity has forced us to do so, and as it usually does in life, any threat would be good to turn into an opportunity. Here I think of the fact that, as the secretary of state has now mentioned, we have about 600 people inside that system and it would be very good right now, not waiting for '26. rather than have very clearly worked out plans for what we're going to do with those 600 people. How and in what way will we nouhau know that we have, which we may even have been able to turn into some more serious, more systematic system of disseminating those who, unfortunately, will still need these knowledge in the world and as we have the opportunity to see and today is the vice president of Ukraine's Rade, the Ukrainian Parliament even explicitly called us and asked for help in what Ukraine is just waiting for a team that is not only being used there but are the most insidious mines that could only not know what kind of a monstrous mind to imagine. There's been a lot of talk here about money. I would disagree with some of these statements if there were no inflows or help from the side when it comes to demining Croatia. We would be very unfair to one Kingdom of Norway, to the Swiss Confederation, which is in those early 2000s and even in the '90s. For years, they made a huge financial contribution to go into faster demining. But I can agree that the majority of the demining money was secured on our own, from our own sources, and that each kuna invested and each dollar invested in demining the kuna was less for something else that we could have done in this country. But this is our historical destiny these are the events that have now remained behind us and we should really be, we would really be in 2026. If this dynamic continues, and here's this 2. The report says that it is possible to follow this dynamic even though I must say that I shared the skepticism of the moment that CROMAC lost its legal personality, when it entered in some way I feared that the system was not degraded and that we might not do something that we might later be able to complain about. Between Sisak and Petrinja there are two places Moscenica and Czecho Selo, there is one street that leads to Kotar forest where there is not a single house where there is no mine victim, for them war and mine problem will never be over, people who have lost their feet, without their loved ones, etc. will forever be marked by this problem and I appeal that these people are treated as victims of war, a civilian victim of war, that they never forget in fact that their sacrifice and that as a society we show maximum solidarity with it, with these people and that in this sense we respect the victim of the pyrotechnics, a large number of these people, I think 60th even that somewhere the size of the pyrotechnicians who have lost their lives in battle with mines. I am convinced that this ugly experience that we have had may be our strong and foreign policy to say adjudicate and that as a country we promote ourselves as an active opponent and active to say to a participant of all those political activities and events in which this danger will arise because we know that unlike those who are only for this problem, the problem has been heard. We as the Social Democrats Club will accept this report and we want it to be that and that the reports that will come behind will be the full fulfillment of the plan, and then that in '26. Let us indeed toast and say that the war has finally ended in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112727	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112728	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, other secretary of state, this colleague and colleague. My predecessors had a few, a few thoughts that are here agreeing this speech and I actually had this debate and I'm talking about actually that this is one of those topics on which we can obviously talk about some kind of consensus and consensus so that what my colleague Vidovic said that only when we're done demining will the war really end, that is, it's also occurred to me, and that's why I want to thank all the pyrotechnics who have worked through all these years to really bring the war to an end. First of all, I'd like to point out that we're not happy, and we have to say that with the fact that we're late for 2020, so we already have a general problem with our reports being late in these things, ironically speaking, this is only 2.g. No, it's just 2. or a year and a half depending on how you look at it, but it would have been very good if we had discussed the 2020 report in a timely manner, among other things, because it was during that period, which is exactly what my colleague, Peovic, in his reply to the secretary of state noted, during that period we had protests of pyrotechnics, so maybe it was the time, which was actually the secretary of state in response to that replica, that might have been the time to conduct this debate so that we could structure their labour rights, so that we could improve them, and precisely because these people are doing the work that they are doing, it would certainly make sense. For that debate, of course, it's not too late, so maybe here one of those points would be that the secretary of state and all those who are most invited actually initiate that debate to do so first chance. If it is a sincere desire for this debate to be conducted and their labour rights to be regulated better and better quality, then it is something we should do. The secretary of state also said he was busy and had money. In that case, I would also like that demining dynamic to be better and faster. Those plans we have can then be even more ambitious, and I think one of the things that we should be rushing into is these incidents that we've also talked about, so we've had one accident with illegal migrants in which in fact one terrible number of people have been killed, some and fatal. Although, I think it's a much broader issue than this debate of course, but the issue of migrants is something that we can't rationally expect to fit in a little while, I think we all know, it is, it is, and the climate crisis is causing it, wars are causing it, and if Croatia, if we know that Croatia is on one route, and it is located then maybe we should put focus on demining these areas because and increase the dynamics in them simply if no other reason why it can potentially have consequences for our responsibility. So, in that sense, if there's anything we can do about it, I think it would definitely be worth it. Col. Djakić mentioned it in fact in his debate, although it is not here now, he mentioned the Croatian nouhau in demining and his colleague Vidovic also mentioned it and apparently we all thought of Ukraine. It's not surprising either. Croatia is a country which, in terms of war, in terms of the consequences of war, has a great experience in the concerns of war victims, unfortunately, we have a strong opportunity. I would, of course, be much happier if Croatia had been a country that had gone undefeated by war in every sense, but it was not so. However, many of this experience has been kind of a success without offering it to those who have needs for such experience. We are, for example, somewhere in 2013 until 2015, working, the current MEP Matic and I together with a very, very broad group of people, including colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Parliament at the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. In part, we were able to offer this law to some others, for example in the previous term of the Croatian Parliament in 2017, I personally took part in the exchange of experiences with, in the compensation of the Jewish women who were victims of sexual violence, but this is very limited. So, if we want this, that demining becomes something that we can truly offer to any Ukraine, any other in the near future, then it has to be very active in doing that. And that's something we should be working on inter-resorially. So, it must enter into some documents of international cooperation, it must, there must be the Foreign and European Ministry involved, we need to talk about it with international partners, and then some serious money must actually be poured into it with some of the documents leading us in a certain direction of development because it will not happen in the spirit of the world. So, if we want what I think is a very good idea and ultimately gives perspective to these pyrotechnicians who, with the right question and in 2020, have rightly wondered what their perspective is. So, start those talks now because we'll be demining if everything goes according to plans in a few years, which is great for us, but then we should have the next steps ready. So that's what we encourage you to do. And I would end up touching the same thing that we addressed in replicas, which is the issue of co-operation with Serbia about getting minefield tickets. The dialogue with Serbia on some of our open issues is not any mystery is actually very bad. In some things, in the vast majority of things responsibility for the fact that this dialogue is bad is not ours. So, in the vast majority of cases, it does not lie in Croatia. We all debate many times here on political opportunities in Serbia, we know that it is difficult to find partners there, we also know that, very often, progress in such talks, in this dialogue is conditional on both political opportunities in Serbia and what I think about it, and so on and so on about missing persons, for example. and this is based on my experience from the Ministry of Defence on missing persons that until Croatia takes the initiative on this. So until you're doing a continuous, intense on one side of the dialogue, on the other hand the pressure continuous, structured, at more levels that shift won't come. So the resulting tomb in Sotina, the discovery of that tomb was the result of international co-operation with Serbia, was the result of such continuous and structured pressure combined ironically with the fact that Serbia wanted to reopen its Chapter 23. So, I'm not going to be in this place unanimously and without the principle of saying that now Serbia needs to be blocked by negotiations, I personally, I mean publicly I've said that many times I think it's an instrument that should not be reached irresponsiblely and recklessly, but it is an instrument. It is an instrument that stands at our disposal. And it should not be presented as punishment, yes, and now we will punish you, but it is a fact that those on their European path if that is their goal which, to understand is not always clear that it is not clear at all, but if that is their goal then they need it, then Croatia should be able to offer them clear steps that are for us, from our perspective not a matter of bilateral something but a question of their European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112729	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, he's going to speak to a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112730	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will first refer to the 2020 report. We discussed the 2019 report in February last year, so now the question why didn't we discuss it before leaving everything for 2022? In addition, one objection is that the mine action plan is up to 2021. According to previous reports or the Anti-minal Act, it should have been adopted differently, namely by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting held on 22 July 2021, covering 2020 and 2021. which is contrary to the provisions of the law because they are in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7th century 1 states that the MUP draws up a proposal for a mine action plan for a one-year period and delivers it to the competent ministries, and in Article 4 of the same law, it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a plan for a one-year period and is adopted no later than the end of the current year for which it is brought, since this was adopted in July 2021, we believe that the legal provisions were not respected. The plan was also not published in the National Journal, nor on the MUP's pages, only on the government's website in the form of a proposal, that is, as far as the first criticism is concerned. Secondly, it is good that a fully implemented mine action plan has been implemented in the sense that an area of 60.6 km2 has been excluded and that sub-target 1.1 has been completed, so the complete removal of the cascade ammunition pursuant to the Convention on Casual Shooting. During 2020 of these 60.6 km2 it is actually an increase compared to 2019 when 45.8 km2 is turned off and it would be good if that pace could continue, but here are some weather opportunities, some pandemics do their part. So the largest areas of mine suspected areas are located in the area of Ličko-Senj County, Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina, Split-Dalmatia, most of which are forests and forest areas. As for the financial aspect, so the financial plan was 421,127 million kuna, practically not everything was realised, 99.18%, the average unit demining price was 9.10 kuna per m2, 2019. I saw that 8.54 kuna per m2, for 2021 I couldn't find that data, so I guess we'll find it somewhere. Furthermore, you have one error in Table 10 because the area of demining is shown in m2, so you mention 58.86 m2, 870 million kunas spent, so km2, so correct that error. There is also little inconsistency with the data in Table 10 relative to what it really is and what is in the text, so it is said that the project Naturavita is the total value of the project 376,8 million kuna, the total value of the eligible costs of 369.6 million kuna, of which 85% and 314.7 million kuna are the grants of the cohesion fund, and then Table 10 says that the value of the project is 376.8 million kuna, and then you find that the share of the grants from the cohesion fund is 212 million kuna, so there is little imbalance. For the Fairless Velebit project, the total value of acceptable costs is 257,3 million kuna, and then it turns out that in Table 10 it is the total value of the project, so there is little imbalance. And for the project Karlovac Karst means the total eligible costs of the project 231,8 million kuna, and in Table 10 goes below the total project value, even we who are not experts in demining understand what are acceptable costs and what is the total value of the project, and then there is little and this illogical need to be corrected. Furthermore, I also point out that the report is something mentioned, but the debate on the board was said that although certain counties of demining were completed several years ago, mine explosives and unexploded means of killing are still found on certain surfaces, there are obviously irresponsible citizens who reject both weapons and mine explosives in the area, so what I was saying in the replica really needs to strengthen the campaign "less weapons, less tragedy", not yet, of course, to be penalized, but one day it will have to be carried out if education is not to invest with fruit or if people really do not realize that they have to hand over weapons that I really don't think they have to keep at home and then put it off in this way. As for 2021, at the end of 2021 mine suspected areas spread to 204,4 km2, covering 7 counties, 37 JLS, mostly in the area of Licko-Senj County, Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina. During 2020, a total of mines cleared Zadar County, then in 2021, less than 45.8 km2 were excluded, the plan was 54.2 km2, which reads the interpretation that there were unfavourable weather opportunities. As far as money is concerned, the MUP predicted a mine action of 384.9 million kuna, spent about 360 million kunas, so 94% is realised, 35% are EU funds. Furthermore, as far as these incidents we've already mentioned, we'd like there to be no such incidents. We are facing the passing of migrants, the border is not protected from it, a lot of people have been killed in this 7-person incident in the 7-person Parliament 1 and died, so it should obviously make sure that migrants pass through and where they are not marked areas and here in some way try to prevent such a situation. The Republic of Croatia spends about 400 million kuna per year on demining, if we are to reach that plan by March 2026, so it will certainly be one 400 million kuna per year and continue to be large funds, and it really needs to reach the EU funds as much as possible. By the end of 2022, Split-Dalmatia, Požesko-Slavon County, is planned to be demined until the end of 2023. Osijek-Baranja, Sibenik-Kninska. We hope that's really going to work out. Some sort of planned pace that should be 55 km2 each year to achieve that goal we set by March 2026. We have also mentioned more colleagues that, unfortunately, in the EU, we have great experience with problems with mine-explosive and mine suspected areas so that we could certainly offer our knowledge and in some ways also resources. On the one hand, humanitarian action, on the other hand, professional demining. Here's what Ukraine faces, so let's not wake up, we need to be wide-breasted and help. In the end, I'd round up one year and another with education. So there were many more educations in 2019. 152 educations 20,000 persons, 17 counties. In 2020, apparently due to a pandemic significantly less than 47 educations, 4,600 people. 2021. total 89 education in 5 counties. So you have to keep working on additional education, on, to be more proactive in fact and in the media sense and what I was saying about the Less Weapons campaign, less tragedy. And finally, on behalf of the club, I thank both personally and in the name of the club for all pyrotechnicians and all those involved in the demining procedures. We will, uh, these two reports will support but we would like to not be late and to mention the law actually respects it. And here we hope that this plan of total cleansing will be realised by March 2026. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112731	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112732	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, although it has now been more than 30 years since the start of the Homeland War, during which the aggressor and the occupier sown countless mines and explosive devices to which a total of 524 dead persons of which more than 200 those who have lost their lives in the period since the end of the war here must be numbered by hundreds of those whose injuries, disability also result from mines and unexploded killings. We also had a recent 18th International Mine Action Symposium where there was the Directorate and Civil Protection and the Geneva Centre for Humanitarian Mine Action, the Ambassador of France as a sponsor, director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Centre for Testing, Development and Training, talked about how many mined areas were left. 7 County, 37 units of local, local self-government where we advance in the mined area of Ličko-Senj County, unfortunately my Split-Dalmatia as a tourist center. And we have to point out how dangerous this is, which is that we had two mine incidents last year related to migrants who died. It should also be commended to the ministry and to note that EU funds have also been used to have this last project along with the Carlovakia County, Croatian Forests and the MUP worth over 230 million kuna and that we have this strong bilateral cooperation with both Switzerland and France that should be commended. But we must note, and here I have come to mention this very new moment, and this is a new geopolitical situation in Europe, war and aggression in Ukraine, and unfortunately this is all that is happening. What we have been through and that we haven't mined our territory 30 years after the war we imagine now, now a country the size of Ukraine and how long it will take for them to demine this large, mass area when we see, when we see and see information and how much Russia in its aggression uses and forbidden funds, forbidden by international conventions and sows that area by mines. We can immediately conclude that Ukraine will fight mine incidents and mine areas for the next two decades. And here as it was at the symposium highlighted by many companies dealing with demining, we heard here and that many pyrotechnics who have this very experience, it is something where Croatia can find their area because this is not only a humanitarian question where normal Croatia will jump in and help all that triba to its friends in Ukraine, but it is definitely a single market project as little and harsh as it sounds now, and at some point aggression will stop, war activities will stop, Russia and Ukraine will have to sit together at the table. We have already offered and heard from the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister, we have offered our experiences regarding peaceful reintegration. I believe that such a similar scenario will be in Ukraine, but we must offer this very experience of mine action is the only country in Europe that has experience in this area is Croatia. When we look at only our companies and private contractors who worked with CROMAC on the very symposium we heard about self-planning, scanning areas, flying planes, making maps of mines, working together, partnerships, not to mention here a private company like Doking who has today the best demining products in the world. I think this is an area where we can certainly offer our expertise, offer our help, but also be the first to be in that segment on European soil and we definitely have to look at it again, how cruel it looked on just as a humanitarian issue as a particular, and a certain economic and market opportunity. For last, I believe and hope to clear the Republic of Croatia from mines to 2026, at this rate I think we can do it. Our future activities normally thank our pyrotechnics who have sacrificed all these decades of this job, but we need to think about the future, we need to think about the market and we need to think about that one relatively small, but a strong army like Croatia can offer our NATO allies a serious anti-mining centre that can definitely be training for all NATO members, for all NATO forces that our partners are so that here I appeal to the ministry to take advantage of that opportunity. to actively engage. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112733	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112734	Dear colleague Bacic. Here you yourself have said in your presentation that the enemy has sown several thousand and thousands of mine explosive devices throughout Croatia during the Homeland War, do you think that this issue should be opened better cooperation or accountability in financial terms by the Republic of Serbia because somehow this issue is constantly put aside, and this is certainly about large financial amounts which are primarily burdening the Croatian budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112735	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112736	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Pavlichek, for that question. I absolutely agree with you, I think that even the last three decades since we've dealt with the anti-mining activity the biggest problem that both CROMAC and private contractors have had, they've had because we've had a bad relationship with the aggressor. So a lot of these mine maps and plans that they planted were planned, it was unplanned if it was an orderly army that was put in place, if it wasn't scattered without any plan, without any map. And that's why it's probably the most deadly who's come because it's hard for pyrotechnics to pick things up and extend the time of demining when you don't have a plan and you don't have a map where mine suspected areas themselves are. So I believe that in any lawsuit, arbitration or any action against the Republic of Serbia as an aggressor, we have the right to seek all kinds of damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112737	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski. I'm sorry, Pocrniæ Radošević first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112738	Thank you. Dear colleague, during more than 25 years, the Republic of Croatia has managed to clean the house, gardens, infrastructure, roads, agricultural surfaces so the rest are mostly forest areas and it is a really demanding job that awaits us. A multidisciplinary approach is needed in each demining process, so other than the demining done by authorised pyrotechnics in legal entities which are around 40 in the Republic of Croatia there is the Civil Protection Directorate and the Croatian Mine Action Centre which performs technical reconnaissances which accurately determine the mine situation, the complexity of the minement, etc. And what is important to emphasize is the importance of the human factor because without people who are educated and who know how to do their job would not be and certainly they need to be given education, favourable working conditions, equipment, but also psychological help since it is demanding psychophysical jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112739	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112740	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Pocrniæ, for this comment and for the replica itself. I agree with us, you "have the biggest problem in Lika-Senj County", unfortunately because it is the most hilly, forestiest and it is the area that has been left behind somehow for the end was the hardest to approach it. No war can be won, but no fire can be extinguished, so probably no area can be demined if the human leg doesn't come onto it, that's the case. These are the difficult areas that remain, I believe that by 2026 we have enough equipment and people and financial resources to clean up all these areas, and we can only mention one Split-Dalmatia County where Dinara remains to be demined, and here is exactly what day we will declare Nature Park Dinara which will be a tourist center, a mountaineer centre, for recreationals, and we have a suspicious mine area. It shows how important it is that as much as possible We've been investing in these last few years in... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112741	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112742	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, our experience in Ukraine, would be very good for the needs of demining or education of the population. And in your presentation, you stressed the great and need of Croatia to help Ukraine after the end of the war, so I wonder what are and what are the capacities of Croatia in this aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112743	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112744	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to thank my colleagues, Budinsky, for the replica. I believe that if there is going to be a final presentation of the State Secretary from the MUP can inform us about the capacity itself, now that this is a long period of 30 years we have a lot of former employees and CROMACs and certain private companies that have dealt with demining. Here we heard in the opening argument and in the very replicas that some of these employees were and were already in Ukraine in certain areas and were doing certain counselling and work. I believe that the MUP has a base of all these people and that we definitely have to watch this I repeat as one opportunity is Croatia in, perhaps it sounds rough, in a few areas you can point out being first, and demining is definitely that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112745	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112746	Thank you, Vice President. You yourself told Bačić that the mine suspected area in Croatia is the result of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, which is something that is the legacy of this aggression and which represents a long and expensive procedure for us to basically clear Croatia from mines, but also something we cannot measure money are human lives which are unfortunately lost. But Croatia is not the only one in this environment that is mined, the same situation is in BiH. I am interested in your knowledge do you think that Croatia may be able, through its experience and experience through demining through some border projects and international co-operation, to help BiH also move more intensively through the demining process?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112747	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112748	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr, for this matter. I can agree with you, and I think we can definitely cover this area and cover this job. We looked only at the report and I also mentioned this last, last project of 239 million kuna in terms of demining, I believe that there are funds, especially cross-border where we can help our colleagues in BiH, just to note that we have a company like Dok-ing that has the best, best demining machines and only that as a state enough to donate one or two such machines or our HV or just enough to train a certain, certain number of people in BiH and tomorrow and Ukraine, if necessary, I think that aid that is immeasurable and difficult to calculate in coins is rare who has experience like we do, as we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112749	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned the potential of a NATO training centre in mine action, I agree absolutely with you. I would just add the importance and use of EU instruments, for example. The special fund intended for Colombia also had one demining instrument. I believe that the EU will also play a key role in restoring Ukraine and I think it is the interest of Croatia to include that segment for humanitarian reasons, but also because of the expertise that you mentioned Croatia has in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112751	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112752	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Stier for this replica. We just had a Defence Committee where Admiral Bauer was, otherwise, who currently commands the NATO Military Committee, which is appealing to Croatia as well as to all members that we will have to meet in a particular segment, normally is it related to, for a land factor, is it related to the Navy, cyber technology, non-essential, I think this is something that we can offer NATO. I consider that. I fear that, in a lot of things, we are late and so are we already in this France, even something Slovenia is already jumping the way, the way of setting up such centres and training in mine action, but they have no near experience like we do, so this is definitely where, where we have space and where we need to be more committed and take on the role and be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112753	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112754	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, here we have talked a lot about how perhaps we should actually communicate more with the Republic of Serbia this to perhaps nevertheless this, to try to come up with a plan of mined areas to speed up this process and to actually make the costs smaller, and not to talk about all the human victims so far. However, I would like to ask you one more thing what might be going on, relying on what we've been saying, so I came across the information that during the quality control of the demining procedures, we're talking about repeated demining, and that was 2020. 11 cases like that, 2021. 5 to 6 cases where they were actually returning to and repeating, so let's say until then the demining processes, were they rejected by explosives from before or was there simply a gap in demining, which and what knowledge do you have about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112755	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112756	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maric, for this replica. Demining is what we heard on the very symposium itself is a very serious, responsible, very dangerous job and it is not done and it does not work only for one war, it is, it is not only in Croatia, we have examples in France and about the First and Second World War and they have given us some examples of their, their, their making catalogues of mines and explosive devices, this is probably happening in Croatia as well. CROMAC, MUP, we have to trust all services normally when something is declared a mine clean area, but every day we see for ourselves how much we are here, even in, and in the center of Zagreb, we have found mines from, from previous wars, so these are things where I don't believe there was a certain gap of demining or certain people, but simply a demanding job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112757	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112758	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since I live in Lika-Senj County in my presentation, I will look back on everything that has been done about the problem of demining after the Homeland War and everything that needs to be done in the next period. After the Homeland War, Lika-Senj County is one of the mine's most polluted counties because of the large territory covered by the war, but also the large length of the separation line on which mine explosives are most often placed. The report presented today shows that the Croatian mine action system has concrete and measurable results. That's right, 1996. According to the UN's assessment, there were 13,000 kilometres of mine suspected areas, and at the end of 2021. There were 205 km2 which is a significant reduction. The estimated pollution is now around 18,900 mines in 8 counties, 44 cities and municipalities, which means we still have work to do. Since 1998. Some 7 billion kuna has been spent on demining in the Republic of Croatia, more than one billion kuna in the Licko-Senj County area, and significant assistance has been the fact that the demining of Croatian territory has been co-financed by EU grants since 2015. During this entire time in Lika-Senj County, about 35,000 different explosive remains of war were found. Since 1.1.1996, in mine accidents in the Republic of Croatia, 606 people have been killed by 204 deaths. Of this, 131 pyrotechnics died, and even 38 deaths, as it relates to the dangers posed by pyrotechnics and whose work is certainly necessary to evaluate and provide them with the best conditions, technical and protective equipment for work. In Lika-Senj County from 1996 to today 57 people were killed by 22 deaths, so I believe that each kuna invested in demining is worth it, and that is something we must insist on and insist on as long as there are mine suspected areas that are a direct danger to human lives. Lika-Senj County reported in 2021 had 93.9km of mine suspected area. Exclusion of 5 and a half kilometers last year has been planned, and the current situation is such that Lika-Senj County has 88.7 square kilometres of mine suspected areas, which is a significant reduction compared to 15 years ago, but these are still significant areas for which funds must and will be provided in the next EU financial envelope, but also funds from the state budget and funds from the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, which should result in demining and mine-solving operations being completed by 2026. Two large demining projects financed by European funds took place in the Ličko-Senj County area. It was an operation of 522 demining agricultural land that lasted from 2015 to 2018 through which Ličko-Senjska County achieved the grants of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for minement 26.5 km2 agricultural areas of total value something around 220 million kuna where more than 1700 pieces of explosive remains of war were found and destroyed. The project ended nearly 99% of mines of polluted agricultural land. The second project is implemented from 2018 to 2023. From the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion where the demining of mine suspected areas of Ličko-Senj County is reduced by 9.9 km2, which refers to forest areas. 2177 pieces of explosive war leftovers were found and destroyed. It is precisely what we can say that mine suspected areas are still present, they are dangerous and they are a real obstacle to the use of natural resources for economic purposes and are a danger to the lives of locals and visitors and that is why demining Croatian territory and mine action should be one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in the field of security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112759	We have replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112760	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Pocrnic Radosevic, you mentioned in your debate that the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU is one of the most protected natural areas of which some are still polluted by mines and mine-explosive means. You have also highlighted the commendable project within the framework of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion which lasts until 2023. You said the aim was to demining forests, forest and other land. Can you tell me what phase the project is in today, given that it is being implemented in your Lika-Senj County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112761	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112762	Thanks for asking. That's right, 'cause I haven't been able to say much in five minutes. It's about the Villas Velebit project. The project is owned by the Croatian Forests, and the project partner is the Ministry of Interior. It is a project that is being implemented, co-workers are a public institution of Nature Park Velebit but also a National Park Paklenica from Zadar County since the area of the project is the area of Ličko-Senj County but also of Zadar County since it is the area of Velebit and Paklenica. This project is currently in phase that the demining of 1645 ha forest and forest land has been carried out to enable the management of these forest areas and the management of Croatian forests, as well as nature parks. However, there is still a project, the project is still ongoing and in the second part of the project will be... Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112763	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112764	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague. I'll be here to continue this one of yours. with the Velebit project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's... the infrastructure that really is the consequence of whether or not demining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's grown up for 25 years and nothing has been invested, so I'm interested in how much the area will be covered by this project and how much, what does that mean for your local population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112765	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112766	Thank you, colleague. Yes, so this project at one stage had demining forest surfaces, and in the second phase it was about improving forest fire infrastructure which was due to war activities and that 25 years could not be accessed by these parts of Velebit were completely abandoned. Therefore, the reconstruction covers 75 km of fire-fighting averages with elements of the forest road, and when the project is implemented, it will allow for the transparency and access of NATURA 2000 areas, which will increase the contribution of forestry and biodiversity in the areas of nature parks and Paklenica National Park, which are associates in this area, and in whose area the project is implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112767	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112768	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. If I understand correctly from your presentation in Ličko-Senjska County there are still plenty of areas under mine explosives, but agricultural areas if I understand correctly, 99% are practically 100% demining and in some way available for agricultural production. I wonder how this has affected the increase in agricultural production mainly on livestock farming or the development of livestock farming in Lika because we know that we are still insufficient in this sector, and there are huge potentials and does something feel positive and happen in that space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112769	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112770	Thanks for asking. Yes, I mentioned that since a large part of the area of Ličko-Senj County was polluted with mines, first it was that part of the house, gardens, economic facilities, infrastructures, roads, railways then agricultural land and it was just the project since 2015-2020. also from eu fonode and, of course, with money from the state budget, a project has been implemented which demining 26.5 km of agricultural land, which is particularly important if it is a county that is oriented to agricultural production and where it is in the area where it has been mined, and that is almost the entire continental part of the county operating about 3400 OPGs, which is certainly significant because they have had additional agricultural surfaces available, and it is significant in those areas that have long not been used that they are now after 25 years [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Available for organic production. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112771	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112772	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, you were talking about Lika-Senj County which has really suffered a lot in the Homeland War and which is still not cleared from mines today despite a lot of generous resources that have been invested, which only tells you about how huge the problem is. According to some data that I have most of the surfaces that are mined are actually forest land. You mentioned projects that were realized like Naturavita and Fearless Velebit which is extremely important because, in fact, apart from agriculture, the character has potential for rural tourism development, and Velebit is certainly one of the key factors. People should feel safe when they come to Croatia, so I'm wondering if you have any information about when it's planned to be implemented until the end of the demining of Lika-Senj County?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112773	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112774	Thank you for asking, colleague Petyr. Yes, much of the area of Ličko-Senj County has been polluted with mines, I think I said there were about 200 km2 at the beginning, and even 90% of it were forest surfaces, and forest surfaces are harder to demining, of course because these forests in the mountainous and mountainous areas are more difficult, and the time of almost 30 years has made their own, and the configuration of the terrain is different. According to all that I saw from the report and what we discussed I believe that the next financial envelope would provide some 110m euros and make it by mid 2026. The demining process in Ličko-Senj County is also the last part of Croatia to be demined and to be freed from mines until that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112775	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112776	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Porniæ. I'm glad you've just dedicated your individual discussion exclusively to your Lika-Senj County, but it's worth pointing out and it's worth a personal debate since it's also the most polluted mines, precisely because of the field itself and the weight of the terrain that we've talked about and the mountains and forests that are left for demining. I believe that by 2006 your county as well as mine will be demined, especially for nature parks and national parks that you mentioned which tourism and sports we need. But here I thought, since there are a lot of military polygons in Lica, we should join forces and fight for a future demining centre, especially if we can get NATO to open one, especially training to be in Lica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112777	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112778	My colleague, I would be very happy to have such a polygon opened in Lika and here we could certainly initiate and potential there is, there is, and we believe in all these pyrotechnics we have almost 40 business entities dealing with demining, which employ about 570 to 600 licensed pyrotechnicians, we have even seen in the report around 104 dogs working on mine search, we have about 40 technical vehicles or as they are already called that mines, and I think that's the potential that needs to be used, and right now, when those surfaces have been reduced, I expect that all these forces will reach out and we will demine this forest and mountain-mounted area and put it into tourist function and in all other necessary functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112779	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112780	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, you yourself mentioned this report that at the end of 2021 out of 204,4 km2 42% actually goes to your county, so there's a lot of work, a lot of financial resources, a lot of effort, pyrotechnics, and of course we'd like to see all of this done within the deadline, but no one gets hurt. So one of the preconditions is certainly education, and I was saying something in the replica on behalf of the club, but I'm curious about how in your Licko-Senj County, do you have any idea how many educations are being conducted, how many of them were there, and do you think we should do a little more work on that kind of prevention, and how would you suggest it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112781	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112782	Thank you. So here's what we can say after the Homeland War except that we've had war casualties happened to us and that we're also the most polluted county mines and our population has to live with it, it's a good thing these areas are investigated, marked by tags, and we have to appeal to citizens always to respect the markings, not to touch them, and if there's something mine suspected area, that it's not going there, and it's certainly important for that the education of citizens. In Gospić there is also the center of Croatia, the branch office of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and it is good because they are among people and can perform concrete activities on the ground and therefore people are calmer, we always know where the pyrotechnics are, where something is done, so it really gives people the faith that we will soon get rid of mine and start living normally and using their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112783	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek's turn. ... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112784	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is indeed a wealthy country, despite the privatisation robbery despite the Homeland War, despite billions of kunas needed for military weapons, despite billions of kunas invested in reconstruction and despite billions of kunas and hundreds of millions still to be invested in demining, Croatia continued to survive. And we're a really rich country. But nearly 30 years have passed since the Homeland War, and Croatia continues to suffer the consequences. In fact, we are the only EU country that has mine suspected areas. Still in 7 County. So far, we've singled out only for the demining of 7 billion kunas. It's 3 Pelješka bridge, it's 800 new kindergartens, it's 10 newly-sanitary county hospitals that are largely in catastrophic condition. And all of this has been resolved primarily by 2015 with our own resources from our own budget, and only since 2015 from EU funds. I will not talk about the damage they have suffered because it is difficult to measure our farmers because for decades they cannot reach their agricultural land, I will not talk about the damage suffered by Croatian forests because they could not manage forests that were in the area of mine suspected. I don't want to talk, but I want to talk about the number of mines killed, and there's 523 of them, 40 of them and some of them are pyrotechnics. There are among them and children, all other civilians. And it hurts me not to have HDZ coalition partners sitting here today from the SDSS to hear their opinion on this. Is this a different opinion for them than we Croats? Are mines and mine setting in Croatia for Croats and Serbs something different, as they have a view of the Storm? If they're not here today, it's none of their business, we're not talking minority issues here. And now that that's what their minority community's been setting up in the '90s, that's less important. And it hurts. It hurts me because it will never say that we need to open this issue, and it hurts me even more that our diplomacy has absolutely done nothing in the last 20 years to force or at least talk to R. Serbia about the possibility of co-financing the costs of demining Croatia. You know who's responsible for setting up those mines. First of all, R. Serbia, the rebel Serbs, the paramilitary troops. Unfortunately, we don't even have tickets to where those mines are. And it hurts. Not as a politician, but as a man. And it is truly inconceivable that we behave incessantly, to our pyrotechnics. All honours to the Croatian Mine Action Centre are really doing a great job, at the very top, perhaps even the first, feathers, as far as demining is concerned in the whole world, but why would someone's life be threatened by someone else? Why wouldn't the other one help to demining the rest of Croatia financially? Why didn't we ever talk about it openly? Why do we keep our heads down? Can't we just say one time so wait a minute, let's talk about this. Not to mention war damage, a number of other problems. This problem is costing Croatia 7 billion kuna so far. 100,000 Croats could have stayed in Croatia if we had invested those 7 billion kunas in demographics, in encouraging employment measures. Does anyone wonder how we could spend that money more wisely? I don't give a shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112785	You have two replicas. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112786	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. So here you are, in your presentation, touched the cost of costing and suffering from all minefields in Croatia, and I believe that you also know well, since I know where you come from, is it, that you know the causes of all of this, but probably also known, the fact that these minefields have often been set up by completely unprofessional people, paramilitary troops, individuals who have set this up without any rules of engineering, means professions and how professionally it is, would probably be much cheaper and much easier to remove them. Also, to those records that often and do not exist, it is simply difficult, almost impossible to reach. And therefore I believe that you are aware of the weight of this process of demining the Republic of Croatia entirely and that we are simply forced to do so. That it lasts and costs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112787	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112788	I agree, I agree with you that a good part has been set up by paramilitary troops during the period when it was not known, as people say, no one drinks or pays, that it has been placed overnight, that neither is there any record of, that even those who have asked them do not know where they were being asked, the question is in what state they were in when they were setting up, but also once again, I would like to point out that we have never even opened this issue in diplomatic terms that it is openly and clearly discussed, that someone is carrying co-responsibility in financial terms because this is a huge amount. This is a huge amount for a much richer state, let alone for one Croatia, and that is not the ultimate amount, so over the next few years will surely go over a billion kunas for demining, not that it is immeasurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112789	And Mrs. McNally. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112790	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke, my colleague, of the fact that the EU has become very late involved in co-financing of demining. The mine envelope was introduced when we became a member of the EU, then and today there is, we barely managed to keep it thanks to my amendment and that I brought Europarliamentaries to Croatia to meet with the wood sector that told them that we still have mines in Croatia, which one serious and actually a large number of Europarliamentaries didn't even know, they were surprised and said, so we as the EU are the largest humanitarian aid donor anywhere in the world and we need to help, that's fine, and we don't know that one of our members still has that problem. I could talk about some of the other negotiations that I witnessed and participated in where we managed to fight the exception for our forests, not to pay the penalty because we proved that our forests were occupied, so you should consider all these elements when talking about demining. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112792	Dear fellow Members, I did not say that the EU was too late to join, I said that it was included in 2015, aware of the fact that it could not have been included before because in 2013, we were a full member and were not open to financial envelopes. If you personally, and I believe you have, contributed to that, I thank you. But it pains me that those who are in charge and responsible for all of this have neither given nor given lip nor ever raised that question by the Republic of Croatia. Of course it costs and will still cost, Croatia could spend this money in various areas of society, unfortunately we are forced primarily to spend more money for the safety of our citizens for a billion kunas to demining the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112793	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, and now it's time to go. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112794	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. This must be a difficult subject that has occupied us for many years and we haven't found a solution yet. It is a long-term and expensive process, as rightly pointed out by many MPs, for whom we have, with our own resources, collected various donations through international co-operation, but also what has to be said is that recently in this segment, we are looking at the usefulness of our membership in the EU, where through the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, through the Rural Development Programme, but also through the announced co-financing of ESI funds for some future projects, this demining work should finally be brought to an end. The mine envelope, which is an integral part of our common agricultural policy, has managed to be preserved in these pre-tumbations and cuttings of the European budget by proving that unfortunately we still have mine suspected areas, according to the latest data I have, 8 counties, 45 cities and municipalities are polluted with mines, somewhere estimated to be about 15 800 mines and unexploded killing resources, and the largest areas below mines are just forest surfaces, 98.6%. Fortunately, we've demined most of the agricultural areas, we've still got 1.1% and there's other areas, 0.3%. We have the possibility through a national strategic plan that we are preparing for a future programming period within the framework of the common agricultural policy as well, and the question of demining, but what I would like to say, of course, is that these are not the means that will be able to meet our needs because the mine envelope has so far been 9.6m euros, we know that to demining the completely remaining mine surfaces we need much, much more resources. As noted in the Replica, the first legislative exemption Croatia has ever received is the election of my amendment to the LULUCF regulation where greenhouse gases and the absorption of greenhouse gases are actually calculated in terms of land re-use, how much the forest contributes, in the balance sheet the forests to which it is managed. We unfortunately in the period which was established as the reference period between '91. and '98. We couldn't master our forests, and some, as we've heard, and as this report shows, we can't master today. So I have to say that I am proud that this amendment of mine was adopted, which was adopted by that exception that allowed the woodworking sector in Croatia to dominate almost 40% of the ethics, which would not have been possible if that exemption had not passed. When we talk about this subject, of course it's impossible not to touch the subject of who's responsible for all of this. We all know who is responsible and who was the aggressor in Croatia and that mine suspected area, all those who have been killed, all those who cannot use their land, victims of this aggressor, and that is why I am very angry to see that again on this side today the accusations are coming to Croatian pilots, and that some Croatian lawyers are acting as SFRJ lawyers, as if the JNA lawyers are not even aware of what was going on here and who was attacking who. I will remind myself once again, in 2014, I asked as a Europarliamentary to conduct a legal analysis of the Serbian law that took Serbia's power to the Little Hague. I received the signature of most Croatian europarliamentaries and Mr Plenkovic and Mr Stier, but not all of them thought that we should not question whether Serbia has the right to do so or not. Legal analysis has shown that Serbia passed a law unknown in international criminal law. That you took little Haag's powers and that he wants to act as a police officer in this area and discipline and arrest citizens of former republics belonging to the SFRY. They can't do that, but we can see from these charges that they're sending that you're still taking the law. So I would like to call again from this pay phone to put Serbia where it belongs, to abolish Articles 2rd and 3rd of that strange beak if So they can call him in the legal space and abandon Croatian defenders for honorably defending the Republic of Croatia and our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112795	Thank you. You have several replicas, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112796	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petir, I congratulate you on your individual debate, but also on the time when you were a Europarliamentary and everything you've done just about the Self-Demination Fund, but here's a good example a fellow Stier said in his replica about the Demining Fund that was related to South America. After this aggression, Russia in Ukraine will definitely play the EU's main role in rebuilding the big country, and there will be a lot of funds in it, and I believe that there will be funds for demining that will follow only after the aggression. Since we have the most experience, but also the humanitarian and economic interest related to demining, I believe that we as a member of the Republic of Croatia should also play a major role in creating what this fund should look like, what to finance and how. So here I believe that you will also engage or offer them your own Analysis. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112797	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112798	Thank you, colleague Bačić, I think it is an extremely important topic and that we have somehow finally caught that rhythm that we react in time that it is no longer a post-festum that we are no longer in the phase as we have so far had to look for an exception because we cannot follow the pace but that we can, based on our experience, knowledge, innovation, technology that we have developed specifically in this segment that we are talking about today, offer solutions. In that sense, as far as I know, the government is already taking certain activities and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, and I believe that with the support of our private sector, which is really representative here, we certainly have what to offer. I think it's very important that what I said to you in the replica, that we don't somehow distract ourselves from the idea that BiH is our neighbouring country I've spoken to their representatives several times, is particularly interested in their sector of forestry which has urged them to help prepare some cross-border projects so that in fact our experience, but also membership in the EU could be used to demining BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112799	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112800	Thank you. Dear fellow Petyr, thank you for everything you said in the second part of the exhibition, I completely agree with you. I'll go back to this first part of minemination, you come from Sisak-Moslavina County which is the same as Lika-Senj County one of the most polluted mines. We heard that the Directorate of Civil Protection and the Croatian Mine Action Centre are doing mine risk education because mine explosives are still in place. It's especially important for children and schools. The report mentions the Swiss-Croatian programme where a database of mine victims and their families was created in order to provide them with psychosocial, educational and advisory assistance because these people are those who have not lost their lives and they certainly need all the help they need. Do you think that in addition to demining, we should also think about the consequences that these mines have left on our fellow citizens and help them to exercise both certain rights and to ease their burdens They got mine... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112801	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112802	Thank you, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. You're absolutely right when you draw attention to all the elements that followed the Homeland War and, of course, demining or accidents that happened because there was no knowledge of where the mines were. Many people have lost their lives or lost a part of their body and that is something that is irreparable. Therefore, because of the situation in which we are present today, we still have mine suspected areas, and it will obviously take a few more years for education to be important. It is also important to gain sensitivity to the families of the victims whom I express my condolences, to those who have become persons with disabilities for the reason that a very large part of Croatia was under mines, but also to have these children raised so that they would never be people who would reach out for weapons, who would attack the innocent, who would reach out for In other people's territory or tossing mines uncontrollably and destroying human lives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112803	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112804	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Petir here and I will congratulate you on your individual debate because talking about mines, about what remains after the aggression on Croatia are not just statistics, there are dead people, there are huge damages in agriculture, and about forests that we do not talk about. I will also congratulate you on your merit as a Europarliamentary on the amendment that you had only in 2015 realized that there are some suspicious mine areas in Croatia. And you need to talk about it. You need a clear and articulated speech like yours, someone is guilty of it, not someone, you know who's to blame for what happened, who left those mines in Croatia, why we couldn't solve them the way it was done after the war that had cards and everything else. Therefore, I think your debate is affected that we are not just talking about statistics, the number of hectares, the number of mines, but that we are talking about a problem that is Croatia cost sure of maybe 50-60 billion kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112805	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112806	Thank you to my colleague Ivanovic, that in addition to the money allocated for demining there should be added to the resources that would have followed as a penalty if we had not received this exemption and had not spread out and explained that Croatia could not manage with its territory and its forests during this period, that means those forests were there and they absorbed CO2, but we did not have control over them as we do today, so all of these are some contributions which, I think, are normal for each of us to give and to try to influence the best way to protect the interests of the Republic, but we should remember that all of this would not be, nor should that money be invested, nor would people have suffered that we had a good neighbour, unfortunately it was not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112807	And finally, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112808	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, in the context of this report and of the foreign policy situation that we have in mind that Croatia has indeed been in difficult times and in one difficult way acquired this experience safely so that today what is happening in Ukraine in a difficult situation, but that Croatia is ready to educate and show and participate not only in human but also in technology and in all these modern situations that can really show that Croatia is ready for such a challenge. And once again I want to thank you for all your time in the Europarlament and for doing and pointing out and giving amendments, and also for pointing out and sharing that truth about the Homeland War and Croatian defenders where we have often listened, once again I want to thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112809	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112810	Thank you, colleague Deur, I think you as a Croatian defender have a great deal of experience and a contribution to the creation of the Croatian state and you can also do much to help, especially with our colleagues in Ukraine, and I think that according to all the information that I have, Croatia has already offered on several occasions and its knowledge, especially in terms of peaceful reintegration, unfortunately I don't know how current this will be at this point in time the uplifted atmosphere and war conditions, but certainly the consequences of the war will be treated for years, especially in this segment when we are talking about mine action and demining, we have both knowledge and expertise and technology and innovation, and we can certainly offer help there. It is therefore important that at the right moment we present this and at European level in order to be a leader in this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112811	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, the debate was on reports for 2020 and '21. on the counter, on the implementation of the mine action plan and the financial resources spent, means for the 2nd year, in the '20s. And in '21, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112813	We're moving on to the next point. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate of the next two points. So, - Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and - Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan on spent financial resources for 2021 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 7. The Mine Action Act. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, esteemed gentlemen MPs. Here is the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and 2021, and I will try to keep you informed of these two points of the agenda, but with a view to the fact that, of course, the data per year will have to focus on bringing them out for one year and for another. In any case, demining is a job that has been done in the Republic of Croatia for more than two and a half decades, it has cost an extremely large asset, but it has cost human lives, the absence of economic activity in some of the areas that have been demining, and in any case it has produced great difficulties in the normal functioning of our country throughout the war, the postwar period and here until today. So I'm going to start with this latest data that's at the end of 2021. The area of mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia was 204,4 km2, covering the area within 37 units of local self-government in seven counties. Last year, Zadar County was mined, leaving a total of seven counties to be cleaned. Mine suspected space at the end of last year was marked with 8.022 mine threat codes. I'm going to try to get the data out of these two years as soon as possible, so the total area excluded from mine suspected space in 2020. is 66,6 km2 just as planned by the mine action plan, which given the covid-19 disease epidemic, is quite a major achievement as from 20 March to 11 May 2020. the demining operations were suspended so they were not carried out. Mine demining business is in 2020. Reduced by 49.2 km2 while implementing a technical and supplementary general survey from a mine suspected area excluded 4.2 km2. The implementation of the general mine-suspecting survey is in 2020. Off and an additional 7.2 km2. All these exclusions represent a full implementation of the plan. Current financial plan for mine action operations in 2020 It amounted to 421 million 127 thousand 291 kuna and was reached almost entirely, i.e. 417 million 682 thousand and 723 kuna or 99.18%. And in 2020. successfully attracting funds from EU funds for demining operations has been continued, through the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion for the period 2014-2020. a total of 43.04% of total demining funds spent in 2020, hence 43% of the funds spent in that year were from eu funds. For demining in 2020. financial resources have also been fully achieved from the position of compensation for the use of the common useful functions of forests provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the amount of 50 million kuna, which is also the continuation of successful cooperation and systematic demining of economic forests. On the occasion of demining operations in 2020 The MAP issued certificates of exclusion of the area or of the building from mine suspected space, found and destroyed 5,376 pieces of mine explosives and 4,047 unexploded killings. For the second year in a row, this has been an extremely large and multiple increase in mine-based mines and NUS mines as compared to previous years, which is also the result of optimised planning and implementation of demining operations. And in 2020. A mine suspected space marking system has been maintained through the control activities set up and the setting of additional markings indicating the mine danger and the possible discovery of unexploded means of killing. On 1 January 2020, The mine suspected space was marked with an 11,540 plate of mine danger. In that year, a mine incident was reported in the Municipality of Josipdol in Karlovac County because when a civilian person was injured from mine during the cutting of the forest within a defined and marked mine suspected area, so the person outside entered a marked mine suspected space. During 2020 A total of 47 mine danger educations were held in six counties in the area of 22 cities and municipalities, which was somewhat less than usual because you yourself know the restrictions imposed by the covida pandemic. In 2020, military sites and buildings were demined, carried out by the Engineering Unit in accordance with the Mine Action Act, which regulates the demining of military sites and buildings. The demining of military facilities was planned for the military polygon Eugen Kvaternik in Slunj in an area of 248.506 three metres square and in Military Colonel Mirko Vukusic in Zemunik Donji near Zadar in the area of 353.580 meters of mine suspected space. The execution of these works on military facilities found, removed and destroyed 70 anti-walking mines and 184 pieces of various unexploded killings until anti-arming mines were found that year. As for last year, 2021. A total of 45.8 km2 has been excluded from mine suspected space from which 34.1 km2 has been excluded in demining operations and 11.7 km2 by implementing a technical, supplementary, general and general survey of an additional 11.7 km2. However, by conducting a general reconnaissance, and based on new knowledge of mine pollution in a mine suspected area, an additional area of 0.8 km2 is included in mine suspect space. Therefore, according to all of these activities in the last year, a total of 45 km2 has been returned to use by the community. Financial plan for mine action in 2021 It amounted to 384 million 932 thousand 646 kuna, with 94% and 360 million 038 thousand 850 kuna respectively. And in the last year, attracting funds from eu funds was very successful, slightly less than a year ago, but in the past year, 35% of the funds were made up of eu funds. It is particularly valuable to point out that the EU's overall contribution to the operations of mine action in the Republic of Croatia amounts to around 183.4m euros, a total of around 20% of the funds invested in demining in our country. After major projects by Naturavita and Fearless Velebit late last year, at the end of August last year, demining activities began on the project Karlovac Karst, whose realisation of a total of 17.1 square kilometers of the Karlovac County will be freed from mines and mine dangers, and mine suspected area in the county will decrease by 40%. The total value of these three major projects, which I mentioned, which were financed by eu funds and 85% of eu funds, is 15% from national funds, so there are 550 million kunas that make up EU grants. With the realization of these large three projects, mine suspected space was reduced by almost 59 km2. Last year, too, the provision of funds for the use of the common useful functions of forests from the Ministry of Agriculture for Forests and Forest Land was continued and 54.5 million kuna was secured from that position last year and all funds were fully realised. So, compared to the planned area of exclusion from mine suspected space in the last year, it's a little less than planned. This is due to adverse weather conditions which made it impossible to carry out the geodetic measurement and to issue certificates of exclusion from mine suspected space, as this concludes the demining business. For a total surface area of 11 km2 so in this area of Karlovac County and on the mountain of Velika Kapela. In carrying out demining operations in areas in which a certificate of demining or mine-suspecting construction was issued last year, 1262 pieces of mine explosives and 810 pieces of unexploded killing funds were also found, therefore somewhat less than in the year preceding which the number of funds found was recordable. Unfortunately, in 2021, There have been two mine incidents in the Municipality of Saborsko in Karlovac County a group of 18 migrants from Pakistan illegally entered the Republic of Croatia and passed through a marked mine suspected area. In that incident, seven people were killed, two of whom were killed, and four were injured more easily. There were no mine victims in the second mine incident that also took place in Karlovac County in the municipality of Vojnic. We would also like to point out on this occasion that unfortunately, at mine demining operations and in general mines and mine accidents and incidents in our country in total, 606 people were killed in 204 deaths, with 217 pyrotechnics killed, of which 65 were fatal in this total figure, which I said of 606 persons. It is large and difficult to compensate, I would say an irreparable loss and we must do everything possible to make up for this remaining period by the end of 2025 and until the beginning of 2026. as the Republic of Croatia has also committed itself by signing the Ottawa Convention to ensure that all of our counties and units of local self-government are free of mines and thus to say so we can breathe and realise these economic and other potentials that are threatening us as long as there is no mine in our country. When we talk about this suffering, I mentioned this education on mine danger and last year there were 89 educations with a total of 4165 people of different age groups in the 5 counties area. In this case, it may be a happy circumstance that this is the marking of mine suspected space that we always point out here because many people who come to an area are those hunters, tourists, hikers, hikers who don't know where everything is demining, if they don't see the markings very easily they'll enter mine suspected space and die. Since 2004 though. We do not record the loss of children from mines, and until this time in the past year and the loss of migrants from mines, from 2014 until last year no civilians were killed, and we considered this to be an exceptional achievement, which is unfortunately, last year, the loss of migrants in Josipdol was interrupted. All other components of mine action such as the care and assistance of mine victims, international co-operation, reporting and affirmation of new norms and international contracts in the Croatian system during the past and before last year has been carried out within the framework of planned activities with possible restrictions caused by the pandemic. I would say in the end that anyone who says evil can produce something useful, developed in Croatia, has developed considerable domestic demining capacities within companies, therefore individuals. Currently in demining business for 42 companies of which 2 companies have only machines, the rest have pyrotechnics, a total of about 570 almost 6 hundred pyrotechnicians including a workshop manager and assistant employees, we have 104 dogs for mine detection and 43 machines that worked on demining operations last year. Here's hoping I've covered what's been going on in the last 2 years. In demining business. We are left to conclude once again, demining 7 counties, this year it is planned to demining the entire Požega-Slavon County, next year Osijek-Baranja and Sibenik-Kninska and then remain in this 2004, 2024 and '25. mine 4 counties, Split-Dalmatia, which only remained in Dinara and 3 are still the most polluted Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka and Lika-Senjska. I also believe with your support that we will all succeed together and free our country from mines, finally 30 years old. After the end of the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112815	Thank you. Before we move to replicas, we have a request for a break from the respected representative Pavliček on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112816	Dear Chairman, we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to consult again on this report, but also to point out that Croatia is the only EU country that still has mine suspected areas, and that Croatia has been since '95. When she systematically set out to demining the Croatian area to this day she spent about 7 billion kuna, 7 billion kuna, that's about 8 hundred kindergartens, that's the rehabilitation of 10 county hospitals, that's thousands of different demographic measures. Unfortunately, much of these funds have gone from their own budget since 2015. from the EU budget. But those who are the most responsible for setting mines across Croatia, which is today the Republic of Serbia and its paramilitary troops have not paid any kuna, nor the demining interest of Croatia. The question arises what has Croatian diplomacy done on this issue? Has any of our diplomats ever asked the Republic of Serbia if it will participate and is it intended to participate at least partly in the demining of Croatia? Never anyone. And this is the shame of Croatian diplomacy, and this only shows that Croatia must still fight the consequences of large-scale aggression today not only through the restoration of its areas but also today here is the 22nd. i.e. 24 years old. from peaceful reintegration with the demining of its own areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112817	Of course the break is approved, in accordance with Article. 293.b. We will continue, so let's go with the replicas, the first respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic, forgive Katarina Nemet, forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112818	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's a first chance I'd like to take advantage of and thank all the pyrotechnics who actively participated in the demining of Zadar County. I think it is very important for the very lives of all residents in the county and for advanced economic development. You said in your report that if the demining was predicted by 2026, the entire Republic would be interested in how much is that possible and how much will it cost us in the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112819	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112820	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. I certainly take the opportunity to thank all the pyrotechnicians, there's a big job behind them, and as I've brought out great sacrifices, we believe and hope that the victims will no longer be, there's still work, and according to all the projections he should finish by the end of 2025. And then early '26. So let's do this whole paper-shaped thing. The Zadar County is therefore demining, the people of Zadar County can turn to their jobs peacefully and safely. You've seen every year we usually provide about 400 million kunas of funds from the budget, which is from this generally useful function of the forest, which from international means and we believe that these next four years will be enough about a billion and a half to two billion kuna for the whole job to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112821	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112822	Thank you. You mentioned Licko-Senj County yourself. So it's a county that's one of the mines most polluted in the Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War. After reconnaissance and marking in 2005, there were 200.6 km2 mine suspected areas. At the end of last year, it was about 86.7 km2 in the 9 cities and municipalities of Lika-Senj County. It's done a lot in those 25 years. Found and destroyed about 35,000 explosive remains of war. A billion kuna was spent, agricultural areas were demined. What's left is demining forest areas in hill-mounted areas, and we know it's the most demanding part of demining operations due to field and plant configuration. Will we be able to clear Lika-Senj County in the planned period until 2026 and return that land to the inhabitants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112823	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112824	Dear Mrs. Pocrnic, the Lika-Senj County is certainly the most polluted county at the moment, and since it is a mountainous county bounded by Plješevica, Velebit, Veli and Mali Kapel and numerous other mountains, the forest mountainous and somewhat more accessible area for mine. However, according to all plans by the end of 2025, Licko-Senj County should be freed and safe from mines. Infrastructure, settlements and agricultural land have been demining the most almost entirely before, and so there is this forest land that Lika is filled with, but there are still a lot of mines and a lot of work ahead of us, but it will be completed by the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112825	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112826	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, last year when we had a report on 2019, then I asked you about education, and that year there were 152 educations. You agreed with me that they should continue to be more proactive, especially in the media sense, so more work on education needs to be done. However, in 2020 there were 47 educations, 2021. 69 plus 20 through the Natura Vita project, so 89. Personally, I think there is still room for improvement, that there should be more education for the civilian population, especially for children, farmers, etc. What do you think you're gonna do in that sense, will you turn it up a little bit? As far as the 2022s are concerned, as far as the Less Arms campaign is concerned, I think there's still a lot of work to be done here, as well, because, as far as the report shows, there are discarded pieces of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112827	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112828	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, that you have well noticed that these educations and have some connection to this less weapons action, less tragedy, is happening, unfortunately, to mention that sometimes irresponsible persons are getting rid of unwanted weapons by throwing it somewhere. Instead, and once again I call upon all citizens to do it for free and without any sanctions to call the police and the police will come for such a weapon and they will take it and the citizen will not bear any sanctions. Exactly the figures, as you said, the figures say everything in these two reports and there were fewer, fewer educations both in the past and in the previous year. They're the sole result of the situation and the pandemic. And I think that's what it's doing, that it's going to take this year and next years to increase that number of educations because only education prevents people from getting killed by mines. And I agree with you, it's necessary and necessary and we'll do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112829	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112830	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a few weeks ago, we had an 18th International Anti-miny Symposium that was in Vodice this year, and there were a number of exhibitors from several countries, and so were Croatian companies and CROMACs, and with all the activities of panels and topics, the main theme was Ukraine and just our experiences from the Homeland War and somehow our companies and private deminers who have the most experience when we look at Europe as a whole, but they lack a little country and the Ministry itself, so I'm curious whether you're in contact with them or whether the Ministry is working on preparations to help Ukraine because eventually this war is going to end, Ukraine is big, and they'll have problems with mines for the next two decades like we had. Are you preparing, are you talking to our private companies, we've gone far away and it can be one completely new and the humanitarian but economic market? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112831	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112832	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic, that's correct. The war in Ukraine, as we know, did not begin 3 months ago, but began about 8 years ago and over the past years there have been contacts and official Ukrainian authorities with the authorities of the Republic of Macedonia and have been coming and asking questions about our demining model. In Ukraine, some of our citizens who have already worked in CROMAC and demining institutions acted, so that the government of Ukraine is well aware of our opportunities. Now in Ukraine, the situation as it is, hence the serious war situation, these jobs cannot be seriously done, but as soon as possible, the Republic of Croatia will engage with its capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112833	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112834	Dear Secretary of State, both reports and for 2020, 2021 are truly commendable and it is clear that mine action and a plan to exclude territories from mine suspected areas are moving forward. And it's good, so we saw it in 2020. 60.6 km2 off and in 2021. 45.8 km2 excluded from mine suspect area. However, what interests me so little, and I would like to hear your answer, the Split-Dalmatia County has a mine suspected area of 2021. 18.1 km2, and the plan to exclude mine suspected area from Split-Dalmatia County is very unambitious. In 2020, only 0.1 km2, and in 2021. 0.6 km2 even though 0.9 is quite unambitious Considering that [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's about a county that lives on tourism. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112835	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112836	Dear Mr. Brkan. Yes, numbers against numbers are difficult to speak they usually clearly describe the situation. In recent years, there have been occasional focussing on a particular county to free it, although, of course, everyone else and everything else is equally important. In Split County, as far as I am aware if I am not mistaken, there are mostly some areas still in Dinara, so in the mountainous area and Svilaja, which is of course not irrelevant, there are more and more hikers who visit our beautiful mountains, but here may be an opportunity for the authorities themselves from the Split-Dalmatia County to work together with the MUP to get more involved as soon as possible in demining the area. But we have the capacity we have and we have a plan to finish it all by the end of '25. I hope that Split will be sooner. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112837	Thank you. Dear representative Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112838	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here you pointed out in your statement that demining Croatian surfaces and mine action is one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in the area of security in which it has been very successful and invested for 25 years. I will take advantage of the opportunity to praise the great achievement in my Zadar County, which included three cities, Benkovac, Obrovac and Zadar and three municipalities of Pakostana, Polac and Stankovci and thus the Zadar County is completely excluded from the mine suspected area. My question is, how many pandemics did COvid-19 actually affect demining, and is this why this process was slowed down?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112839	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112840	Your Honor, Madam Representative. Of course it affected her, I already said that about seven weeks in 2020. During that lockdown at the end of the 3rd, 4th and half of the 5th months, the demining did not run; after that, despite some closures, the demining was not continued, but of course not in that volume which would not have been such a situation. Surely we would be forward in some cases, here is another county such as Zadar where the recent years have been intensively done in the area around the Vranska Lake and there is indeed intensively done and it is eventually completed, so it is returned to the area and to the farmers, but also to tourists that they can freely use it. I hope there won't be any more restrictions like this and we'll be able to get this job done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112841	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112842	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are the Croatian pyrotechnicians who are really a feather about this job and at the world level, so I wonder how many pyrotechnicians are currently in Croatia and how many licensed demining companies are there?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112843	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112844	Dear Mr. Pavlich. Of course, I agree with you, none of which have become obvious according to the data that I have provided and which are generally not so dangerous in Croatia right now, probably even in the world, so such a job is dangerous in all countries, but this profession is therefore dangerous. We currently have 397 pyrotechnics in the system of them plus we still have 108 workers who are very important in the context of this job, 67 auxiliary employees, so about 570 total people who work, plus we have about 65 people in the Croatian Centre and the MUP within the Croatian Mine Action Centre who also, as I said, work a general technical survey also participate in the exclusion of that suspicious space, so one who no longer question excludes it from mine suspected space. We have 42 companies that are currently working. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Like I said, two only with machines. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112845	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I would kind of refer to the replica of my colleague Jura Brkana when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County, namely, it is important to stress that military spaces and complexes such as Vis, Žrnovnica and Kukuzovac in the area of the town of Sinja mean that these spaces are cleaned in the area of mine explosive means and that they can be brought in quite an economic purpose, and these other areas are about 19.5 km mainly as you mentioned in the inaccessible mountain areas of Dinara and Svilia. However, here we have the knowledge that more and more time is doing its own and the signs are sort of alienating, you know, there are tourists who want to take this warning sign of replacement as some souvenir which is incomprehensible to us, but it puts an increasing number of hikers outside the tourists and beekeepers who come into those areas, so please pay attention in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112847	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112848	Dear Mr. Brcic. Yes, there are always strange people with strange tendencies, and I'm surprised that they don't know that by the way they put people who go somewhere in good faith, the space has been marked, and by passing some of these people I mentioned there is no warning. It is true that in the Split-Dalmatia County we still have a total of 10% of areas that are not demining. I don't think that's the most vital area, of course... but I would never rule out that area of these beautiful mountains if it were irrelevant. It is also important from an economic point of view, but for entertainment, tourism that attracts more and more people, so I believe that soon they will be available to anyone who wants to visit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112849	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112850	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will relate to my colleague Brčić, he said that some would remove these tables and carry home as souvenirs or use them, but there is also the opposite example, which is when these tables would have been taken to places that were not mine-suspecting. Do you have any knowledge of that? First of all, here was a situation related to hunters who would leave those tables so that actually travelers would be driven from areas that they found interesting to hunt. And another thing, ten years ago, I noticed that mine suspected areas were growing, or in some counties where there was no demining that there were new mine suspected areas. How was that possible and did it ever actually happen that someone had examined an area that had come as mine suspected in what way it had come, was there a malversion or a word of crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112851	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112852	Dear Mr. Zekanovic. Any abuse of these boards with warnings of mine suspected space is punishable by law and therefore if someone did so to prevent a hunter from going to an area, it must be punishable and it must not be done and subject to sanctions. Your second question is possible to increase mine suspected space based on some subsequent findings. How do we even know there's a mine suspect space somewhere? For some areas we know clearly because the struggles were fought for a long time, first our army, the police told us where the mines were set, later on, there were some maps, some maps with marked minefields, all of them included, but other than what was on the paper and what the witnesses said were later reported and some other witnesses indirectly heard the stories. Some were specific and proved to have mine suspected space And some don't. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Last year it's like that in 0.8 km. increased mine suspected space. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112853	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112854	With new data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112855	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I want to publicly thank you once again for your report, but also for the pyrotechnics who work responsible and life-threatening work. In fact, the war ended a long time ago, but the enemy left such a mess that, in fact, for those pyrotechnics today, he never stopped the war, and once again, they have my deep respect. I'm glad she also told a colleague that Zadar County is finally cleared of mines and that we can now live with full lungs. I'm interested in the fact that our enemies of the South Army and the Chetniks are now able to cooperate after so much time to make it easier for these pyrotechnics to detect mine explosive fields? And do they really cooperate or continue not to cooperate as they are not So far we've been working together? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112856	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112857	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, here's what I'm going to find out is that I'm just as glad as Zadar's origin that our county is freed from mines, but I'd like the other seven counties to have citizens, residents of these counties as soon as possible. Co-operation with the enemy and in the post-war period is always difficult, but it is also necessary, I would not know you now as much and as accurate numbers as I am, not available at this time with them, but there were of course cases that we also received data from the enemy side. They're valuable, if they come to the future from this moment on, they're welcome. We invite them to talk, not only on this matter, but on the question of victims whose tomb is still unknown and many issues that must be resolved after each conflict. You know who started the conflict, but after the conflict, when some peace is signed, then you need to talk about how to restore life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112858	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Secretary of State, Associates. I am very pleased with everything the Mine Action Centre is doing as the coordinator of all these activities, of course the MUP. What I want to point out in particular is a good kind of cooperation that we and the county have with the Demining Centro because they always respect the opinions and actually the needs of the county for maybe another view than was originally planned. That's very important. The County knows its needs best, especially when it relates to the tourist part or to some part that is important to the county and may not be recognized from the national level. That's what I think that communication is great, and that's the way to move on. And I especially commend the education program, I know him well because the ambulance has some experience with it and general cooperation in work, so here's my personal satisfaction. Everyone who works there. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112860	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112861	Your Honor, Madam Representative. You said everything, but this job is based on good planning, that's true, but sometimes we have a situation that, despite the plan, needs to be more urgent because some things happen, so life didn't stop at a given moment, so it tries to meet local self-government units to demine something maybe before the planned deadline. It is possible, of course, in some limited range not entirely because it would violate our plans. Education and in response to the lady... I mentioned it is very important, I call on everyone who does so not to stop, so what is the solution to this problem near the end, but it has not stopped and in these remaining four years it is important to the last day of education that someone does not get hurt in the last days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112862	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112863	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In your speech you said that this year you plan to completely demining Požega-Slavon County, and by the end of next year of Osijek-Baranja County, how many forest and agricultural areas are still left in mine suspected areas? Are the funds provided for the full demining of these areas and have such areas actually been classified as priority precisely because of the fact that as many agricultural areas as possible should be put into operation as soon as possible because of the larger working surfaces of our farmers and, in fact, because of the increase in food and everything that awaits us in this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112864	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112865	Dear Mrs Vlasic Iljkic, that these two counties remain this year. She's been gone for a few years now, so there's no big surface that needs to be demining, but there's something left. Osijek-Baranja has more. Since the beginning of demining began when demining first settlements, infrastructure, all that is necessary for one, the first return of people and that basic life. Of course, other than roads and infrastructure, agricultural land had to be demined. That's what it's done. There remains forest land that is not less valuable, and it is very valuable in our country, certain swampland, certain canals, reefs. It is a demanding job in Osijek-Baranja County, especially in Kopački rit and along the Drava River, it is not always possible to work there in a certain part of the year, but here we believe that this plan will be fulfilled That county also cleans up mines. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112866	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112867	Thank you. In both reports, only pyrotechnics are mentioned twice, only in the context of their injury or death, but I will remind you that in September 2020, the pyrotechnics had a protest here on Mark's square. At that moment, 70 of them were fired. They rebel and what is their basic problem are low pensions, and among other things, wages varying according to how much they work on the ground. Bozinovic then told them that money has more than ever. It means both from the EU and domestic funds, but then the question is, where are the money? Have their questions and their problems related to their material status been resolved and have their material rights been improved ever since and in what status of pyrotechnics is in the context of the labour rights and labour rights of these workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112868	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112869	Madam, I repeat once again that this job is responsible, dangerous, highly dangerous and very few people would want to do it with their choice. They've made that decision, and they're doing it very well. There's a special law on the rights of pyrotechnics. Under special law, I can go to early retirement. It is true that if a certain month is done less working days that the salaries, or at the end of those receipts are lower because they are honored in some additions, work on the ground is, and then you can't return it if there was no rain, snow or any other circumstances. I think the state has done a lot in terms of the material rights of pyrotechnics. Whether it could be more is always a question, but it is a population that has always been given great attention to solving their material, material and financial position. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112870	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112871	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, my question is actually in the direction of what my colleague Simicevic asked. So, I, I would ask if you could tell me more specifically, so is there any kind of dialogue with the Republic of Serbia about getting these maps of minefields? So, if there's anyone who owns this activity, does your ministry or the Foreign Ministry? And how if such a dialogue exists, how does it work because we can all call here and we'll all call the Republic of Serbia to, that they deliver that information. What they, I mean everyone who worked, and I did have a chance to do this on missing persons issues, it doesn't work like that. So is there an option to be within their approach process whether there was any thought about asking it as one of the issues discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112872	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112873	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that's certainly one question that's hard, contacts have been and there are. Are they systemically difficult enough for everyone to agree on? As long as we still have areas where mines are found, and they're not in whose cards it means that, and you can reasonably suspect that they've been set up by the enemy, given where they are, then each of us will say that this job is not good enough. He is burdened with various other issues you know and yourself so that he is not, often he cannot be viewed separately from all other packages of solving all the aftermath problems or problems arising from the war itself. That this should be given more attention, I agree, and it is certainly the obligation of anyone who is at this point in power to finish this job as soon as possible and with the possibility of any sacrifice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112874	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112875	Here's the esteemed we've had opportunities in these discussions and replicas to hear almost all the data as from your reports of what a terrible accident happened after the war. In fact, one group for which the war is still going on are our people engineers, anti-miny pyrotechnics, certainly agree with a colleague who advocates that their status is absolutely improved in terms of material, social, any other sense, but also what Mr Glavasevic said with the Republic of Serbia, BiH, Montenegro needs to establish any contact that these minefields, that as few people who work to discover these fields and deactivate them, expose their lives. Work on it, this isn't a question, this is a commitment to all of you. There's really no obstacle to how you pass it on to the minister and the prime minister to advocate it. to finally get rid of those questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112876	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112877	Mr. Representative, I'll just say I accept your suggestion and agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112878	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112879	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here I am using the opportunity to express my satisfaction with the demining state in the area of Osijek-Baranja County where, mainly in the area of Baranja, through the Naturavita project, almost everything was demined, practically all agricultural areas, agricultural areas, a large, large part of the forest surfaces, there is a little bit more in Kopački rit of space that is hard to reach and as such it is difficult, difficult to approach this one. This demining situation in the last year was planned 4.3 km2 and the plan was fully implemented in the past year, so that there are still about 12 to 13 km2 in the Osijek-Baranja County area, which contributes significantly not only to economic development but also to the development of tourism in the Baranja area and all parts of it, so please comment or if we could expect this rest to end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112880	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112881	As I was saying earlier, it is planned that all demining operations in the Osijek-Baranja County end in 2023, so next year. I believe that this will contribute to further development, overall economic development, and especially to the tourism development of Osijek-Baranja County, in this case in particular Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112882	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, but before that, we'll take a short technical break by 15 and 40 and then we'll start with the clubs. [[It's 3:30 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.44 HOURS]] Here's the break is over, so we open the debate and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative Marijan Pavliček will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112884	Dear Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. '95. The war officially ended with military redistributive actions of Flash and Storm and ended with the end of the peace integration on January 15, '98. Croatia has indeed entered the peace period. Unfortunately, Croatia is today 24 years old. Since the end of peace integration still suffers the consequences of war destruction. After military redistribution and after peaceful reintegration, mass reconstruction of family houses, residential buildings, a major reconstruction of the infrastructure that was destroyed in the war, however, today Croatia is spending considerable financial resources on demining, namely we are the only EU country that still has mine suspected areas. So far, Croatia has spent around 7 billion kuna on demining only, mostly on own budget funds since 2015. We have also managed to get some funding from the European budget. 7 billion kuna is 3 Peljeska Bridges that could have been built without European money, it is 800 kindergartens of newly built, it is 10 rehabilitations of the county hospitals, and a large part of them are indeed in a catastrophic state and those who are the main and responsible for it, which is the current Republic of Serbia, these are its paramilitary units that have not given us any kunas, nor the demining of the Croatian country. What hurts even more is that Croatian diplomacy and Croatian foreign policy never openly and clearly said and raised the issue in talks with representatives of the Republic of Serbia's resolution ministry. Croatia had to and had to seek war compensation for this amount of finance it itself gave to demining the Republic of Serbia, Croatia had to and had to ask that the Republic of Serbia if nothing else co-financed part of the demining costs, thus building good neighbourly relations. I will not talk about the real economic loss for Croatia which is difficult to assess because for 10 years our farmers could not reach their ores, 10 years of Croatian forest cannot manage their property because it is still part of mine suspected area, all of which are huge financial resources, without talking about war victims, so far there have been more than 525 deadly victims of mines throughout the Republic, of which more than 40 members of Mungos and other companies dealing with demining or pyrotechnics. Although we are indeed here at the very top as far as demining is concerned, unfortunately, there are always accidents like this because it is a very difficult and demanding job where you have to be extremely focused all the time and the human error is unfortunately unforgivable. I'm glad that here's another county, in this case Zadar demining, that we have 7 more counties left and I really hope that the planned deadlines will do so, but once again I appeal to open up the issue of responsibility of the Republic of Serbia and its financing or at least co-financing of these enormous one-off costs because it is indeed primarily the guilt of its huge Serbian aggression and the consequence that its paramilitary troops across Croatia have sown thousands and thousands of murderous missiles of which, unfortunately, are then the least guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112885	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Josip Djakic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, Ministry of Defense. So here are two reports that are united to discuss this mine action and what do you say? After 30. Since the beginning of the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia is still making the most of its efforts to demining mine suspected areas. The so-called security consequences, as well as the inability to exploit mine suspected land, have had a strong impact for many years on the development of those areas that have been affected by war events, and thus on the development of society as a whole. The pollution of mine explosives, as well as unexploded killings, is a constant threat to the victims of the Republic of Croatia, to brakes, to exploit the overall potential of mine polluted counties, to the effective implementation of fire protection and control of the state border, and to carry out various rescue and handling actions following technological incidents. When we talk about demining, we aim to maintain and strengthen public security, but also to reduce the pollution of land by mines and explosives, which is a major economic humanitarian and general social problem. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the Action Plan 2020-2021, which is intended to inform the public about the activities, the objectives made as well as the financial resources provided for that purpose. The mine action plan is in line with the Ministry of the Interior's strategic plan 2020 to 2022. At the end of 2021 the area of mine suspected areas of the Republic of Croatia was 204,4 km square within 37 units of local self-government in 7 counties and was marked with... mine dangers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to 2020, mine suspected area was reduced by 45 km square in such a way that 45.8 kilometers were excluded from mine suspected area and mine suspected 0.8 km. At the end of 2021, the state of mine suspected areas by county remained Ličko-senjska 86.7 km2, Karlovak County 38.1 km2, Sisak-moslavina 34.8 km2, Split-Dalmatia 18.1 km2, Osijek-Baranja 11,1, Sibenik-Kninska 9.3, Požesko-Slavonska 6.3 km2. As we can see, still the largest areas of mine suspected areas are located in the area of Ličko-Senj County, as well as the Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina County, while in 2021, the entire mines cleared Zadar County. The mine suspected area was situated in the three cities of Benkovac, Obrovca, Zadar, and the municipalities of Pakostane, Polac and Stankovci. It covered an area of 9.3 km2. In view of the outbreak of covida-19 disease in the period from 20 March to 11 May 2020, all demining operations were suspended, so we must praise this action plan for 2020, which is fully implemented according to all the objectives set. Unfortunately, mine incidents have also occurred. In 2020, a mine-free incident took place in the Municipality of Josipdol in Karlovac County, and in June 2020, a civilian was injured while cutting the forest, and in 2021 two mine incidents occurred in the Karlova County. The first occurred in the Municipality of Saborsko when during the movement of a group of 18 civilian immigrants from Pakistan through a marked mine suspected area, 7 people were killed, 2 sustained serious physical injuries, and 4 minor injuries. Another incident occurred in the municipality of Vojnic where there was an activation of an unexplosive asset during field work but there were no human casualties or serious consequences. A total of 606 people have been killed in mine accidents so far, with 204 fatalities. During 2020, a total of 47 educations were held on mine danger in six counties in the area of 22 towns and municipalities. The educations included about 4600 people, while since 2021, the district civil protection offices have maintained a total of 69 mine danger educations covering 3416 people of various age groups but the highest number of children of preschool and school age as well as target populations of the local population, municipalities and cities with mine suspected area. In view of the need to implement anti- epidemiological measures, education is mainly carried out in a reduced volume and with a smaller number of persons. The financial plan in 2020 amounted to 421 million 127 thousand 291 kuna and was realised in the amount of 417 million 682 thousand 723 kuna, or 99.18% and in 2021. 384 million 902 thousand 646 and 94% were realised, i.e. 360 million 038 thousand 850 kuna were spent and we can say that the successful trend of insurance of EU funds continued. Not all funds from the source of the operational programme are realised competitiveness and cohesion in 2014-2020 because due to weather conditions, demining on the project Karlovac has not been completed. The financial resources from the fee position for the use of common useful forest functions are secured from the Ministry of Agriculture and are fully realised. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the implementation of demining works in 2020, 2021, with the optimal use of available resources and real impact achieved. The priority of engagement was to demining mine suspected areas in... Colonel Mirko Vukusic in Zemunik Donji, and at the military range Eugen Quaternik in Slunj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All works of demining military sites and buildings in 2021 were carried out effectively without even one extraordinary event, which primarily indicates good training and consistent application of prescribed humanitarian demining procedures. Thanks to the built-up system of mine action, the necessary knowledge and skills of people dealing with this problem and specific testing polygons, we can respond to any challenge in the mine action segment, and offer the highest quality operational testing but also participate in the most challenging research and development projects for mine detection in the world. The Republic of Croatia has experience that we have gained in a difficult way, but today and in the future we can offer our help to others. Aware of the time in which we live war in Ukraine, we will certainly offer our help in terms of specialized companies and experts as well as delivering the most modern techniques of domestic manufacturers. Which I welcome and congratulate because they are at the very top of the world with their technological achievements and exceptions. And finally, I want to thank all the stakeholders who allow us to clear the ground of mine explosive devices and I believe that by 2026, as planned and foreseen by the Republic of Croatia will be a safe, free and clean land without mines. The HDZ Club will make, of course, support the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2020 and '21. The year remains awake until Croatia is clear from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112887	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative and vice president of this house, Davorko Vidovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112888	Vice-President, honored gentlemen from one ministry and another, so here's the report, even though I haven't dealt with this problem more intensively for 10 years, I've come up with a lot of things. For example, when I led the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2001, '02. And '03. The year someone told me I'd be in '22. In the Croatian Parliament, I would probably say that he is very pessimistic. But time has passed, we have this problem but fortunately we see its end. Why is it important to still have a public focus on this problem? Simply because of the fact that as long as a mine is a danger to any citizen of our country or to a tourist, God or any child until the war in Croatia is over. It's a war after the war. The mine danger and mine problem that we as a country have faced is indeed a unique experience of an EU member country. We faced this problem and we handled it as best we knew and learned it and I would say we demonstrated actually a slightly underrated creativity and the ability of us, our people, our experts to give creative answers to the problems this country faces. We've created a kind of an arguerrel innovation. The formation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was a model of study in the world, so that the experience that we gained in such a professionally organized system, the management and management of mine action, the education of people, the construction of polygons, and in particular the mobilization of Croatian intelligence and knowledge on finding and innovation or the creation of brand new machines for cleaning minefields, work and innovation related to protective equipment have become truly what someone had previously noticed in the world and what I would say niche in which Croatia proved to be the top-of-the-line this organized with a top product. The necessity has forced us to do so, and as it usually does in life, any threat would be good to turn into an opportunity. Here I think of the fact that, as the secretary of state has now mentioned, we have about 600 people inside that system and it would be very good right now, not waiting for '26. rather than have very clearly worked out plans for what we're going to do with those 600 people. How and in what way will we nouhau know that we have, which we may even have been able to turn into some more serious, more systematic system of disseminating those who, unfortunately, will still need these knowledge in the world and as we have the opportunity to see and today is the vice president of Ukraine's Rade, the Ukrainian Parliament even explicitly called us and asked for help in what Ukraine is just waiting for a team that is not only being used there but are the most insidious mines that could only not know what kind of a monstrous mind to imagine. There's been a lot of talk here about money. I would disagree with some of these statements if there were no inflows or help from the side when it comes to demining Croatia. We would be very unfair to one Kingdom of Norway, to the Swiss Confederation, which is in those early 2000s and even in the '90s. For years, they made a huge financial contribution to go into faster demining. But I can agree that the majority of the demining money was secured on our own, from our own sources, and that each kuna invested and each dollar invested in demining the kuna was less for something else that we could have done in this country. But this is our historical destiny these are the events that have now remained behind us and we should really be, we would really be in 2026. If this dynamic continues, and here's this 2. The report says that it is possible to follow this dynamic even though I must say that I shared the skepticism of the moment that CROMAC lost its legal personality, when it entered in some way I feared that the system was not degraded and that we might not do something that we might later be able to complain about. Between Sisak and Petrinja there are two places Moscenica and Czecho Selo, there is one street that leads to Kotar forest where there is not a single house where there is no mine victim, for them war and mine problem will never be over, people who have lost their feet, without their loved ones, etc. will forever be marked by this problem and I appeal that these people are treated as victims of war, a civilian victim of war, that they never forget in fact that their sacrifice and that as a society we show maximum solidarity with it, with these people and that in this sense we respect the victim of the pyrotechnics, a large number of these people, I think 60th even that somewhere the size of the pyrotechnicians who have lost their lives in battle with mines. I am convinced that this ugly experience that we have had may be our strong and foreign policy to say adjudicate and that as a country we promote ourselves as an active opponent and active to say to a participant of all those political activities and events in which this danger will arise because we know that unlike those who are only for this problem, the problem has been heard. We as the Social Democrats Club will accept this report and we want it to be that and that the reports that will come behind will be the full fulfillment of the plan, and then that in '26. Let us indeed toast and say that the war has finally ended in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112889	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112890	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, other secretary of state, this colleague and colleague. My predecessors had a few, a few thoughts that are here agreeing this speech and I actually had this debate and I'm talking about actually that this is one of those topics on which we can obviously talk about some kind of consensus and consensus so that what my colleague Vidovic said that only when we're done demining will the war really end, that is, it's also occurred to me, and that's why I want to thank all the pyrotechnics who have worked through all these years to really bring the war to an end. First of all, I'd like to point out that we're not happy, and we have to say that with the fact that we're late for 2020, so we already have a general problem with our reports being late in these things, ironically speaking, this is only 2.g. No, it's just 2. or a year and a half depending on how you look at it, but it would have been very good if we had discussed the 2020 report in a timely manner, among other things, because it was during that period, which is exactly what my colleague, Peovic, in his reply to the secretary of state noted, during that period we had protests of pyrotechnics, so maybe it was the time, which was actually the secretary of state in response to that replica, that might have been the time to conduct this debate so that we could structure their labour rights, so that we could improve them, and precisely because these people are doing the work that they are doing, it would certainly make sense. For that debate, of course, it's not too late, so maybe here one of those points would be that the secretary of state and all those who are most invited actually initiate that debate to do so first chance. If it is a sincere desire for this debate to be conducted and their labour rights to be regulated better and better quality, then it is something we should do. The secretary of state also said he was busy and had money. In that case, I would also like that demining dynamic to be better and faster. Those plans we have can then be even more ambitious, and I think one of the things that we should be rushing into is these incidents that we've also talked about, so we've had one accident with illegal migrants in which in fact one terrible number of people have been killed, some and fatal. Although, I think it's a much broader issue than this debate of course, but the issue of migrants is something that we can't rationally expect to fit in a little while, I think we all know, it is, it is, and the climate crisis is causing it, wars are causing it, and if Croatia, if we know that Croatia is on one route, and it is located then maybe we should put focus on demining these areas because and increase the dynamics in them simply if no other reason why it can potentially have consequences for our responsibility. So, in that sense, if there's anything we can do about it, I think it would definitely be worth it. Col. Djakić mentioned it in fact in his debate, although it is not here now, he mentioned the Croatian nouhau in demining and his colleague Vidovic also mentioned it and apparently we all thought of Ukraine. It's not surprising either. Croatia is a country which, in terms of war, in terms of the consequences of war, has a great experience in the concerns of war victims, unfortunately, we have a strong opportunity. I would, of course, be much happier if Croatia had been a country that had gone undefeated by war in every sense, but it was not so. However, many of this experience has been kind of a success without offering it to those who have needs for such experience. We are, for example, somewhere in 2013 until 2015, working, the current MEP Matic and I together with a very, very broad group of people, including colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Parliament at the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. In part, we were able to offer this law to some others, for example in the previous term of the Croatian Parliament in 2017, I personally took part in the exchange of experiences with, in the compensation of the Jewish women who were victims of sexual violence, but this is very limited. So, if we want this, that demining becomes something that we can truly offer to any Ukraine, any other in the near future, then it has to be very active in doing that. And that's something we should be working on inter-resorially. So, it must enter into some documents of international cooperation, it must, there must be the Foreign and European Ministry involved, we need to talk about it with international partners, and then some serious money must actually be poured into it with some of the documents leading us in a certain direction of development because it will not happen in the spirit of the world. So, if we want what I think is a very good idea and ultimately gives perspective to these pyrotechnicians who, with the right question and in 2020, have rightly wondered what their perspective is. So, start those talks now because we'll be demining if everything goes according to plans in a few years, which is great for us, but then we should have the next steps ready. So that's what we encourage you to do. And I would end up touching the same thing that we addressed in replicas, which is the issue of co-operation with Serbia about getting minefield tickets. The dialogue with Serbia on some of our open issues is not any mystery is actually very bad. In some things, in the vast majority of things responsibility for the fact that this dialogue is bad is not ours. So, in the vast majority of cases, it does not lie in Croatia. We all debate many times here on political opportunities in Serbia, we know that it is difficult to find partners there, we also know that, very often, progress in such talks, in this dialogue is conditional on both political opportunities in Serbia and what I think about it, and so on and so on about missing persons, for example. and this is based on my experience from the Ministry of Defence on missing persons that until Croatia takes the initiative on this. So until you're doing a continuous, intense on one side of the dialogue, on the other hand the pressure continuous, structured, at more levels that shift won't come. So the resulting tomb in Sotina, the discovery of that tomb was the result of international co-operation with Serbia, was the result of such continuous and structured pressure combined ironically with the fact that Serbia wanted to reopen its Chapter 23. So, I'm not going to be in this place unanimously and without the principle of saying that now Serbia needs to be blocked by negotiations, I personally, I mean publicly I've said that many times I think it's an instrument that should not be reached irresponsiblely and recklessly, but it is an instrument. It is an instrument that stands at our disposal. And it should not be presented as punishment, yes, and now we will punish you, but it is a fact that those on their European path if that is their goal which, to understand is not always clear that it is not clear at all, but if that is their goal then they need it, then Croatia should be able to offer them clear steps that are for us, from our perspective not a matter of bilateral something but a question of their European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112891	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, he's going to speak to a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112892	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will first refer to the 2020 report. We discussed the 2019 report in February last year, so now the question why didn't we discuss it before leaving everything for 2022? In addition, one objection is that the mine action plan is up to 2021. According to previous reports or the Anti-minal Act, it should have been adopted differently, namely by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting held on 22 July 2021, covering 2020 and 2021. which is contrary to the provisions of the law because they are in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7th century 1 states that the MUP draws up a proposal for a mine action plan for a one-year period and delivers it to the competent ministries, and in Article 4 of the same law, it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a plan for a one-year period and is adopted no later than the end of the current year for which it is brought, since this was adopted in July 2021, we believe that the legal provisions were not respected. The plan was also not published in the National Journal, nor on the MUP's pages, only on the government's website in the form of a proposal, that is, as far as the first criticism is concerned. Secondly, it is good that a fully implemented mine action plan has been implemented in the sense that an area of 60.6 km2 has been excluded and that sub-target 1.1 has been completed, so the complete removal of the cascade ammunition pursuant to the Convention on Casual Shooting. During 2020 of these 60.6 km2 it is actually an increase compared to 2019 when 45.8 km2 is turned off and it would be good if that pace could continue, but here are some weather opportunities, some pandemics do their part. So the largest areas of mine suspected areas are located in the area of Ličko-Senj County, Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina, Split-Dalmatia, most of which are forests and forest areas. As for the financial aspect, so the financial plan was 421,127 million kuna, practically not everything was realised, 99.18%, the average unit demining price was 9.10 kuna per m2, 2019. I saw that 8.54 kuna per m2, for 2021 I couldn't find that data, so I guess we'll find it somewhere. Furthermore, you have one error in Table 10 because the area of demining is shown in m2, so you mention 58.86 m2, 870 million kunas spent, so km2, so correct that error. There is also little inconsistency with the data in Table 10 relative to what it really is and what is in the text, so it is said that the project Naturavita is the total value of the project 376,8 million kuna, the total value of the eligible costs of 369.6 million kuna, of which 85% and 314.7 million kuna are the grants of the cohesion fund, and then Table 10 says that the value of the project is 376.8 million kuna, and then you find that the share of the grants from the cohesion fund is 212 million kuna, so there is little imbalance. For the Fairless Velebit project, the total value of acceptable costs is 257,3 million kuna, and then it turns out that in Table 10 it is the total value of the project, so there is little imbalance. And for the project Karlovac Karst means the total eligible costs of the project 231,8 million kuna, and in Table 10 goes below the total project value, even we who are not experts in demining understand what are acceptable costs and what is the total value of the project, and then there is little and this illogical need to be corrected. Furthermore, I also point out that the report is something mentioned, but the debate on the board was said that although certain counties of demining were completed several years ago, mine explosives and unexploded means of killing are still found on certain surfaces, there are obviously irresponsible citizens who reject both weapons and mine explosives in the area, so what I was saying in the replica really needs to strengthen the campaign "less weapons, less tragedy", not yet, of course, to be penalized, but one day it will have to be carried out if education is not to invest with fruit or if people really do not realize that they have to hand over weapons that I really don't think they have to keep at home and then put it off in this way. As for 2021, at the end of 2021 mine suspected areas spread to 204,4 km2, covering 7 counties, 37 JLS, mostly in the area of Licko-Senj County, Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina. During 2020, a total of mines cleared Zadar County, then in 2021, less than 45.8 km2 were excluded, the plan was 54.2 km2, which reads the interpretation that there were unfavourable weather opportunities. As far as money is concerned, the MUP predicted a mine action of 384.9 million kuna, spent about 360 million kunas, so 94% is realised, 35% are EU funds. Furthermore, as far as these incidents we've already mentioned, we'd like there to be no such incidents. We are facing the passing of migrants, the border is not protected from it, a lot of people have been killed in this 7-person incident in the 7-person Parliament 1 and died, so it should obviously make sure that migrants pass through and where they are not marked areas and here in some way try to prevent such a situation. The Republic of Croatia spends about 400 million kuna per year on demining, if we are to reach that plan by March 2026, so it will certainly be one 400 million kuna per year and continue to be large funds, and it really needs to reach the EU funds as much as possible. By the end of 2022, Split-Dalmatia, Požesko-Slavon County, is planned to be demined until the end of 2023. Osijek-Baranja, Sibenik-Kninska. We hope that's really going to work out. Some sort of planned pace that should be 55 km2 each year to achieve that goal we set by March 2026. We have also mentioned more colleagues that, unfortunately, in the EU, we have great experience with problems with mine-explosive and mine suspected areas so that we could certainly offer our knowledge and in some ways also resources. On the one hand, humanitarian action, on the other hand, professional demining. Here's what Ukraine faces, so let's not wake up, we need to be wide-breasted and help. In the end, I'd round up one year and another with education. So there were many more educations in 2019. 152 educations 20,000 persons, 17 counties. In 2020, apparently due to a pandemic significantly less than 47 educations, 4,600 people. 2021. total 89 education in 5 counties. So you have to keep working on additional education, on, to be more proactive in fact and in the media sense and what I was saying about the Less Weapons campaign, less tragedy. And finally, on behalf of the club, I thank both personally and in the name of the club for all pyrotechnicians and all those involved in the demining procedures. We will, uh, these two reports will support but we would like to not be late and to mention the law actually respects it. And here we hope that this plan of total cleansing will be realised by March 2026. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112893	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112894	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, although it has now been more than 30 years since the start of the Homeland War, during which the aggressor and the occupier sown countless mines and explosive devices to which a total of 524 dead persons of which more than 200 those who have lost their lives in the period since the end of the war here must be numbered by hundreds of those whose injuries, disability also result from mines and unexploded killings. We also had a recent 18th International Mine Action Symposium where there was the Directorate and Civil Protection and the Geneva Centre for Humanitarian Mine Action, the Ambassador of France as a sponsor, director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Centre for Testing, Development and Training, talked about how many mined areas were left. 7 County, 37 units of local, local self-government where we advance in the mined area of Ličko-Senj County, unfortunately my Split-Dalmatia as a tourist center. And we have to point out how dangerous this is, which is that we had two mine incidents last year related to migrants who died. It should also be commended to the ministry and to note that EU funds have also been used to have this last project along with the Carlovakia County, Croatian Forests and the MUP worth over 230 million kuna and that we have this strong bilateral cooperation with both Switzerland and France that should be commended. But we must note, and here I have come to mention this very new moment, and this is a new geopolitical situation in Europe, war and aggression in Ukraine, and unfortunately this is all that is happening. What we have been through and that we haven't mined our territory 30 years after the war we imagine now, now a country the size of Ukraine and how long it will take for them to demine this large, mass area when we see, when we see and see information and how much Russia in its aggression uses and forbidden funds, forbidden by international conventions and sows that area by mines. We can immediately conclude that Ukraine will fight mine incidents and mine areas for the next two decades. And here as it was at the symposium highlighted by many companies dealing with demining, we heard here and that many pyrotechnics who have this very experience, it is something where Croatia can find their area because this is not only a humanitarian question where normal Croatia will jump in and help all that triba to its friends in Ukraine, but it is definitely a single market project as little and harsh as it sounds now, and at some point aggression will stop, war activities will stop, Russia and Ukraine will have to sit together at the table. We have already offered and heard from the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister, we have offered our experiences regarding peaceful reintegration. I believe that such a similar scenario will be in Ukraine, but we must offer this very experience of mine action is the only country in Europe that has experience in this area is Croatia. When we look at only our companies and private contractors who worked with CROMAC on the very symposium we heard about self-planning, scanning areas, flying planes, making maps of mines, working together, partnerships, not to mention here a private company like Doking who has today the best demining products in the world. I think this is an area where we can certainly offer our expertise, offer our help, but also be the first to be in that segment on European soil and we definitely have to look at it again, how cruel it looked on just as a humanitarian issue as a particular, and a certain economic and market opportunity. For last, I believe and hope to clear the Republic of Croatia from mines to 2026, at this rate I think we can do it. Our future activities normally thank our pyrotechnics who have sacrificed all these decades of this job, but we need to think about the future, we need to think about the market and we need to think about that one relatively small, but a strong army like Croatia can offer our NATO allies a serious anti-mining centre that can definitely be training for all NATO members, for all NATO forces that our partners are so that here I appeal to the ministry to take advantage of that opportunity. to actively engage. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112895	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112896	Dear colleague Bacic. Here you yourself have said in your presentation that the enemy has sown several thousand and thousands of mine explosive devices throughout Croatia during the Homeland War, do you think that this issue should be opened better cooperation or accountability in financial terms by the Republic of Serbia because somehow this issue is constantly put aside, and this is certainly about large financial amounts which are primarily burdening the Croatian budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112897	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112898	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Pavlichek, for that question. I absolutely agree with you, I think that even the last three decades since we've dealt with the anti-mining activity the biggest problem that both CROMAC and private contractors have had, they've had because we've had a bad relationship with the aggressor. So a lot of these mine maps and plans that they planted were planned, it was unplanned if it was an orderly army that was put in place, if it wasn't scattered without any plan, without any map. And that's why it's probably the most deadly who's come because it's hard for pyrotechnics to pick things up and extend the time of demining when you don't have a plan and you don't have a map where mine suspected areas themselves are. So I believe that in any lawsuit, arbitration or any action against the Republic of Serbia as an aggressor, we have the right to seek all kinds of damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112899	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski. I'm sorry, Pocrniæ Radošević first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112900	Thank you. Dear colleague, during more than 25 years, the Republic of Croatia has managed to clean the house, gardens, infrastructure, roads, agricultural surfaces so the rest are mostly forest areas and it is a really demanding job that awaits us. A multidisciplinary approach is needed in each demining process, so other than the demining done by authorised pyrotechnics in legal entities which are around 40 in the Republic of Croatia there is the Civil Protection Directorate and the Croatian Mine Action Centre which performs technical reconnaissances which accurately determine the mine situation, the complexity of the minement, etc. And what is important to emphasize is the importance of the human factor because without people who are educated and who know how to do their job would not be and certainly they need to be given education, favourable working conditions, equipment, but also psychological help since it is demanding psychophysical jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112901	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112902	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Pocrniæ, for this comment and for the replica itself. I agree with us, you "have the biggest problem in Lika-Senj County", unfortunately because it is the most hilly, forestiest and it is the area that has been left behind somehow for the end was the hardest to approach it. No war can be won, but no fire can be extinguished, so probably no area can be demined if the human leg doesn't come onto it, that's the case. These are the difficult areas that remain, I believe that by 2026 we have enough equipment and people and financial resources to clean up all these areas, and we can only mention one Split-Dalmatia County where Dinara remains to be demined, and here is exactly what day we will declare Nature Park Dinara which will be a tourist center, a mountaineer centre, for recreationals, and we have a suspicious mine area. It shows how important it is that as much as possible We've been investing in these last few years in... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112903	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112904	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, our experience in Ukraine, would be very good for the needs of demining or education of the population. And in your presentation, you stressed the great and need of Croatia to help Ukraine after the end of the war, so I wonder what are and what are the capacities of Croatia in this aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112905	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112906	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to thank my colleagues, Budinsky, for the replica. I believe that if there is going to be a final presentation of the State Secretary from the MUP can inform us about the capacity itself, now that this is a long period of 30 years we have a lot of former employees and CROMACs and certain private companies that have dealt with demining. Here we heard in the opening argument and in the very replicas that some of these employees were and were already in Ukraine in certain areas and were doing certain counselling and work. I believe that the MUP has a base of all these people and that we definitely have to watch this I repeat as one opportunity is Croatia in, perhaps it sounds rough, in a few areas you can point out being first, and demining is definitely that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112907	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112908	Thank you, Vice President. You yourself told Bačić that the mine suspected area in Croatia is the result of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, which is something that is the legacy of this aggression and which represents a long and expensive procedure for us to basically clear Croatia from mines, but also something we cannot measure money are human lives which are unfortunately lost. But Croatia is not the only one in this environment that is mined, the same situation is in BiH. I am interested in your knowledge do you think that Croatia may be able, through its experience and experience through demining through some border projects and international co-operation, to help BiH also move more intensively through the demining process?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112909	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112910	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr, for this matter. I can agree with you, and I think we can definitely cover this area and cover this job. We looked only at the report and I also mentioned this last, last project of 239 million kuna in terms of demining, I believe that there are funds, especially cross-border where we can help our colleagues in BiH, just to note that we have a company like Dok-ing that has the best, best demining machines and only that as a state enough to donate one or two such machines or our HV or just enough to train a certain, certain number of people in BiH and tomorrow and Ukraine, if necessary, I think that aid that is immeasurable and difficult to calculate in coins is rare who has experience like we do, as we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112911	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned the potential of a NATO training centre in mine action, I agree absolutely with you. I would just add the importance and use of EU instruments, for example. The special fund intended for Colombia also had one demining instrument. I believe that the EU will also play a key role in restoring Ukraine and I think it is the interest of Croatia to include that segment for humanitarian reasons, but also because of the expertise that you mentioned Croatia has in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112913	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112914	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Stier for this replica. We just had a Defence Committee where Admiral Bauer was, otherwise, who currently commands the NATO Military Committee, which is appealing to Croatia as well as to all members that we will have to meet in a particular segment, normally is it related to, for a land factor, is it related to the Navy, cyber technology, non-essential, I think this is something that we can offer NATO. I consider that. I fear that, in a lot of things, we are late and so are we already in this France, even something Slovenia is already jumping the way, the way of setting up such centres and training in mine action, but they have no near experience like we do, so this is definitely where, where we have space and where we need to be more committed and take on the role and be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112915	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112916	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, here we have talked a lot about how perhaps we should actually communicate more with the Republic of Serbia this to perhaps nevertheless this, to try to come up with a plan of mined areas to speed up this process and to actually make the costs smaller, and not to talk about all the human victims so far. However, I would like to ask you one more thing what might be going on, relying on what we've been saying, so I came across the information that during the quality control of the demining procedures, we're talking about repeated demining, and that was 2020. 11 cases like that, 2021. 5 to 6 cases where they were actually returning to and repeating, so let's say until then the demining processes, were they rejected by explosives from before or was there simply a gap in demining, which and what knowledge do you have about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112917	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112918	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maric, for this replica. Demining is what we heard on the very symposium itself is a very serious, responsible, very dangerous job and it is not done and it does not work only for one war, it is, it is not only in Croatia, we have examples in France and about the First and Second World War and they have given us some examples of their, their, their making catalogues of mines and explosive devices, this is probably happening in Croatia as well. CROMAC, MUP, we have to trust all services normally when something is declared a mine clean area, but every day we see for ourselves how much we are here, even in, and in the center of Zagreb, we have found mines from, from previous wars, so these are things where I don't believe there was a certain gap of demining or certain people, but simply a demanding job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112919	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112920	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since I live in Lika-Senj County in my presentation, I will look back on everything that has been done about the problem of demining after the Homeland War and everything that needs to be done in the next period. After the Homeland War, Lika-Senj County is one of the mine's most polluted counties because of the large territory covered by the war, but also the large length of the separation line on which mine explosives are most often placed. The report presented today shows that the Croatian mine action system has concrete and measurable results. That's right, 1996. According to the UN's assessment, there were 13,000 kilometres of mine suspected areas, and at the end of 2021. There were 205 km2 which is a significant reduction. The estimated pollution is now around 18,900 mines in 8 counties, 44 cities and municipalities, which means we still have work to do. Since 1998. Some 7 billion kuna has been spent on demining in the Republic of Croatia, more than one billion kuna in the Licko-Senj County area, and significant assistance has been the fact that the demining of Croatian territory has been co-financed by EU grants since 2015. During this entire time in Lika-Senj County, about 35,000 different explosive remains of war were found. Since 1.1.1996, in mine accidents in the Republic of Croatia, 606 people have been killed by 204 deaths. Of this, 131 pyrotechnics died, and even 38 deaths, as it relates to the dangers posed by pyrotechnics and whose work is certainly necessary to evaluate and provide them with the best conditions, technical and protective equipment for work. In Lika-Senj County from 1996 to today 57 people were killed by 22 deaths, so I believe that each kuna invested in demining is worth it, and that is something we must insist on and insist on as long as there are mine suspected areas that are a direct danger to human lives. Lika-Senj County reported in 2021 had 93.9km of mine suspected area. Exclusion of 5 and a half kilometers last year has been planned, and the current situation is such that Lika-Senj County has 88.7 square kilometres of mine suspected areas, which is a significant reduction compared to 15 years ago, but these are still significant areas for which funds must and will be provided in the next EU financial envelope, but also funds from the state budget and funds from the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, which should result in demining and mine-solving operations being completed by 2026. Two large demining projects financed by European funds took place in the Ličko-Senj County area. It was an operation of 522 demining agricultural land that lasted from 2015 to 2018 through which Ličko-Senjska County achieved the grants of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for minement 26.5 km2 agricultural areas of total value something around 220 million kuna where more than 1700 pieces of explosive remains of war were found and destroyed. The project ended nearly 99% of mines of polluted agricultural land. The second project is implemented from 2018 to 2023. From the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion where the demining of mine suspected areas of Ličko-Senj County is reduced by 9.9 km2, which refers to forest areas. 2177 pieces of explosive war leftovers were found and destroyed. It is precisely what we can say that mine suspected areas are still present, they are dangerous and they are a real obstacle to the use of natural resources for economic purposes and are a danger to the lives of locals and visitors and that is why demining Croatian territory and mine action should be one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in the field of security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112921	We have replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112922	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Pocrnic Radosevic, you mentioned in your debate that the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU is one of the most protected natural areas of which some are still polluted by mines and mine-explosive means. You have also highlighted the commendable project within the framework of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion which lasts until 2023. You said the aim was to demining forests, forest and other land. Can you tell me what phase the project is in today, given that it is being implemented in your Lika-Senj County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112923	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112924	Thanks for asking. That's right, 'cause I haven't been able to say much in five minutes. It's about the Villas Velebit project. The project is owned by the Croatian Forests, and the project partner is the Ministry of Interior. It is a project that is being implemented, co-workers are a public institution of Nature Park Velebit but also a National Park Paklenica from Zadar County since the area of the project is the area of Ličko-Senj County but also of Zadar County since it is the area of Velebit and Paklenica. This project is currently in phase that the demining of 1645 ha forest and forest land has been carried out to enable the management of these forest areas and the management of Croatian forests, as well as nature parks. However, there is still a project, the project is still ongoing and in the second part of the project will be... Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112925	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112926	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague. I'll be here to continue this one of yours. with the Velebit project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's... the infrastructure that really is the consequence of whether or not demining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's grown up for 25 years and nothing has been invested, so I'm interested in how much the area will be covered by this project and how much, what does that mean for your local population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112927	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112928	Thank you, colleague. Yes, so this project at one stage had demining forest surfaces, and in the second phase it was about improving forest fire infrastructure which was due to war activities and that 25 years could not be accessed by these parts of Velebit were completely abandoned. Therefore, the reconstruction covers 75 km of fire-fighting averages with elements of the forest road, and when the project is implemented, it will allow for the transparency and access of NATURA 2000 areas, which will increase the contribution of forestry and biodiversity in the areas of nature parks and Paklenica National Park, which are associates in this area, and in whose area the project is implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112929	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112930	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. If I understand correctly from your presentation in Ličko-Senjska County there are still plenty of areas under mine explosives, but agricultural areas if I understand correctly, 99% are practically 100% demining and in some way available for agricultural production. I wonder how this has affected the increase in agricultural production mainly on livestock farming or the development of livestock farming in Lika because we know that we are still insufficient in this sector, and there are huge potentials and does something feel positive and happen in that space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112931	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112932	Thanks for asking. Yes, I mentioned that since a large part of the area of Ličko-Senj County was polluted with mines, first it was that part of the house, gardens, economic facilities, infrastructures, roads, railways then agricultural land and it was just the project since 2015-2020. also from eu fonode and, of course, with money from the state budget, a project has been implemented which demining 26.5 km of agricultural land, which is particularly important if it is a county that is oriented to agricultural production and where it is in the area where it has been mined, and that is almost the entire continental part of the county operating about 3400 OPGs, which is certainly significant because they have had additional agricultural surfaces available, and it is significant in those areas that have long not been used that they are now after 25 years [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Available for organic production. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112933	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112934	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, you were talking about Lika-Senj County which has really suffered a lot in the Homeland War and which is still not cleared from mines today despite a lot of generous resources that have been invested, which only tells you about how huge the problem is. According to some data that I have most of the surfaces that are mined are actually forest land. You mentioned projects that were realized like Naturavita and Fearless Velebit which is extremely important because, in fact, apart from agriculture, the character has potential for rural tourism development, and Velebit is certainly one of the key factors. People should feel safe when they come to Croatia, so I'm wondering if you have any information about when it's planned to be implemented until the end of the demining of Lika-Senj County?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112935	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112936	Thank you for asking, colleague Petyr. Yes, much of the area of Ličko-Senj County has been polluted with mines, I think I said there were about 200 km2 at the beginning, and even 90% of it were forest surfaces, and forest surfaces are harder to demining, of course because these forests in the mountainous and mountainous areas are more difficult, and the time of almost 30 years has made their own, and the configuration of the terrain is different. According to all that I saw from the report and what we discussed I believe that the next financial envelope would provide some 110m euros and make it by mid 2026. The demining process in Ličko-Senj County is also the last part of Croatia to be demined and to be freed from mines until that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112937	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112938	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Porniæ. I'm glad you've just dedicated your individual discussion exclusively to your Lika-Senj County, but it's worth pointing out and it's worth a personal debate since it's also the most polluted mines, precisely because of the field itself and the weight of the terrain that we've talked about and the mountains and forests that are left for demining. I believe that by 2006 your county as well as mine will be demined, especially for nature parks and national parks that you mentioned which tourism and sports we need. But here I thought, since there are a lot of military polygons in Lica, we should join forces and fight for a future demining centre, especially if we can get NATO to open one, especially training to be in Lica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112939	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112940	My colleague, I would be very happy to have such a polygon opened in Lika and here we could certainly initiate and potential there is, there is, and we believe in all these pyrotechnics we have almost 40 business entities dealing with demining, which employ about 570 to 600 licensed pyrotechnicians, we have even seen in the report around 104 dogs working on mine search, we have about 40 technical vehicles or as they are already called that mines, and I think that's the potential that needs to be used, and right now, when those surfaces have been reduced, I expect that all these forces will reach out and we will demine this forest and mountain-mounted area and put it into tourist function and in all other necessary functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112941	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112942	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, you yourself mentioned this report that at the end of 2021 out of 204,4 km2 42% actually goes to your county, so there's a lot of work, a lot of financial resources, a lot of effort, pyrotechnics, and of course we'd like to see all of this done within the deadline, but no one gets hurt. So one of the preconditions is certainly education, and I was saying something in the replica on behalf of the club, but I'm curious about how in your Licko-Senj County, do you have any idea how many educations are being conducted, how many of them were there, and do you think we should do a little more work on that kind of prevention, and how would you suggest it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112943	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112944	Thank you. So here's what we can say after the Homeland War except that we've had war casualties happened to us and that we're also the most polluted county mines and our population has to live with it, it's a good thing these areas are investigated, marked by tags, and we have to appeal to citizens always to respect the markings, not to touch them, and if there's something mine suspected area, that it's not going there, and it's certainly important for that the education of citizens. In Gospić there is also the center of Croatia, the branch office of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and it is good because they are among people and can perform concrete activities on the ground and therefore people are calmer, we always know where the pyrotechnics are, where something is done, so it really gives people the faith that we will soon get rid of mine and start living normally and using their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112945	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek's turn. ... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112946	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is indeed a wealthy country, despite the privatisation robbery despite the Homeland War, despite billions of kunas needed for military weapons, despite billions of kunas invested in reconstruction and despite billions of kunas and hundreds of millions still to be invested in demining, Croatia continued to survive. And we're a really rich country. But nearly 30 years have passed since the Homeland War, and Croatia continues to suffer the consequences. In fact, we are the only EU country that has mine suspected areas. Still in 7 County. So far, we've singled out only for the demining of 7 billion kunas. It's 3 Pelješka bridge, it's 800 new kindergartens, it's 10 newly-sanitary county hospitals that are largely in catastrophic condition. And all of this has been resolved primarily by 2015 with our own resources from our own budget, and only since 2015 from EU funds. I will not talk about the damage they have suffered because it is difficult to measure our farmers because for decades they cannot reach their agricultural land, I will not talk about the damage suffered by Croatian forests because they could not manage forests that were in the area of mine suspected. I don't want to talk, but I want to talk about the number of mines killed, and there's 523 of them, 40 of them and some of them are pyrotechnics. There are among them and children, all other civilians. And it hurts me not to have HDZ coalition partners sitting here today from the SDSS to hear their opinion on this. Is this a different opinion for them than we Croats? Are mines and mine setting in Croatia for Croats and Serbs something different, as they have a view of the Storm? If they're not here today, it's none of their business, we're not talking minority issues here. And now that that's what their minority community's been setting up in the '90s, that's less important. And it hurts. It hurts me because it will never say that we need to open this issue, and it hurts me even more that our diplomacy has absolutely done nothing in the last 20 years to force or at least talk to R. Serbia about the possibility of co-financing the costs of demining Croatia. You know who's responsible for setting up those mines. First of all, R. Serbia, the rebel Serbs, the paramilitary troops. Unfortunately, we don't even have tickets to where those mines are. And it hurts. Not as a politician, but as a man. And it is truly inconceivable that we behave incessantly, to our pyrotechnics. All honours to the Croatian Mine Action Centre are really doing a great job, at the very top, perhaps even the first, feathers, as far as demining is concerned in the whole world, but why would someone's life be threatened by someone else? Why wouldn't the other one help to demining the rest of Croatia financially? Why didn't we ever talk about it openly? Why do we keep our heads down? Can't we just say one time so wait a minute, let's talk about this. Not to mention war damage, a number of other problems. This problem is costing Croatia 7 billion kuna so far. 100,000 Croats could have stayed in Croatia if we had invested those 7 billion kunas in demographics, in encouraging employment measures. Does anyone wonder how we could spend that money more wisely? I don't give a shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112947	You have two replicas. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112948	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. So here you are, in your presentation, touched the cost of costing and suffering from all minefields in Croatia, and I believe that you also know well, since I know where you come from, is it, that you know the causes of all of this, but probably also known, the fact that these minefields have often been set up by completely unprofessional people, paramilitary troops, individuals who have set this up without any rules of engineering, means professions and how professionally it is, would probably be much cheaper and much easier to remove them. Also, to those records that often and do not exist, it is simply difficult, almost impossible to reach. And therefore I believe that you are aware of the weight of this process of demining the Republic of Croatia entirely and that we are simply forced to do so. That it lasts and costs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112949	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112950	I agree, I agree with you that a good part has been set up by paramilitary troops during the period when it was not known, as people say, no one drinks or pays, that it has been placed overnight, that neither is there any record of, that even those who have asked them do not know where they were being asked, the question is in what state they were in when they were setting up, but also once again, I would like to point out that we have never even opened this issue in diplomatic terms that it is openly and clearly discussed, that someone is carrying co-responsibility in financial terms because this is a huge amount. This is a huge amount for a much richer state, let alone for one Croatia, and that is not the ultimate amount, so over the next few years will surely go over a billion kunas for demining, not that it is immeasurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112951	And Mrs. McNally. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112952	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke, my colleague, of the fact that the EU has become very late involved in co-financing of demining. The mine envelope was introduced when we became a member of the EU, then and today there is, we barely managed to keep it thanks to my amendment and that I brought Europarliamentaries to Croatia to meet with the wood sector that told them that we still have mines in Croatia, which one serious and actually a large number of Europarliamentaries didn't even know, they were surprised and said, so we as the EU are the largest humanitarian aid donor anywhere in the world and we need to help, that's fine, and we don't know that one of our members still has that problem. I could talk about some of the other negotiations that I witnessed and participated in where we managed to fight the exception for our forests, not to pay the penalty because we proved that our forests were occupied, so you should consider all these elements when talking about demining. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112953	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112954	Dear fellow Members, I did not say that the EU was too late to join, I said that it was included in 2015, aware of the fact that it could not have been included before because in 2013, we were a full member and were not open to financial envelopes. If you personally, and I believe you have, contributed to that, I thank you. But it pains me that those who are in charge and responsible for all of this have neither given nor given lip nor ever raised that question by the Republic of Croatia. Of course it costs and will still cost, Croatia could spend this money in various areas of society, unfortunately we are forced primarily to spend more money for the safety of our citizens for a billion kunas to demining the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112955	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, and now it's time to go. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112956	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. This must be a difficult subject that has occupied us for many years and we haven't found a solution yet. It is a long-term and expensive process, as rightly pointed out by many MPs, for whom we have, with our own resources, collected various donations through international co-operation, but also what has to be said is that recently in this segment, we are looking at the usefulness of our membership in the EU, where through the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, through the Rural Development Programme, but also through the announced co-financing of ESI funds for some future projects, this demining work should finally be brought to an end. The mine envelope, which is an integral part of our common agricultural policy, has managed to be preserved in these pre-tumbations and cuttings of the European budget by proving that unfortunately we still have mine suspected areas, according to the latest data I have, 8 counties, 45 cities and municipalities are polluted with mines, somewhere estimated to be about 15 800 mines and unexploded killing resources, and the largest areas below mines are just forest surfaces, 98.6%. Fortunately, we've demined most of the agricultural areas, we've still got 1.1% and there's other areas, 0.3%. We have the possibility through a national strategic plan that we are preparing for a future programming period within the framework of the common agricultural policy as well, and the question of demining, but what I would like to say, of course, is that these are not the means that will be able to meet our needs because the mine envelope has so far been 9.6m euros, we know that to demining the completely remaining mine surfaces we need much, much more resources. As noted in the Replica, the first legislative exemption Croatia has ever received is the election of my amendment to the LULUCF regulation where greenhouse gases and the absorption of greenhouse gases are actually calculated in terms of land re-use, how much the forest contributes, in the balance sheet the forests to which it is managed. We unfortunately in the period which was established as the reference period between '91. and '98. We couldn't master our forests, and some, as we've heard, and as this report shows, we can't master today. So I have to say that I am proud that this amendment of mine was adopted, which was adopted by that exception that allowed the woodworking sector in Croatia to dominate almost 40% of the ethics, which would not have been possible if that exemption had not passed. When we talk about this subject, of course it's impossible not to touch the subject of who's responsible for all of this. We all know who is responsible and who was the aggressor in Croatia and that mine suspected area, all those who have been killed, all those who cannot use their land, victims of this aggressor, and that is why I am very angry to see that again on this side today the accusations are coming to Croatian pilots, and that some Croatian lawyers are acting as SFRJ lawyers, as if the JNA lawyers are not even aware of what was going on here and who was attacking who. I will remind myself once again, in 2014, I asked as a Europarliamentary to conduct a legal analysis of the Serbian law that took Serbia's power to the Little Hague. I received the signature of most Croatian europarliamentaries and Mr Plenkovic and Mr Stier, but not all of them thought that we should not question whether Serbia has the right to do so or not. Legal analysis has shown that Serbia passed a law unknown in international criminal law. That you took little Haag's powers and that he wants to act as a police officer in this area and discipline and arrest citizens of former republics belonging to the SFRY. They can't do that, but we can see from these charges that they're sending that you're still taking the law. So I would like to call again from this pay phone to put Serbia where it belongs, to abolish Articles 2rd and 3rd of that strange beak if So they can call him in the legal space and abandon Croatian defenders for honorably defending the Republic of Croatia and our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112957	Thank you. You have several replicas, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112958	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petir, I congratulate you on your individual debate, but also on the time when you were a Europarliamentary and everything you've done just about the Self-Demination Fund, but here's a good example a fellow Stier said in his replica about the Demining Fund that was related to South America. After this aggression, Russia in Ukraine will definitely play the EU's main role in rebuilding the big country, and there will be a lot of funds in it, and I believe that there will be funds for demining that will follow only after the aggression. Since we have the most experience, but also the humanitarian and economic interest related to demining, I believe that we as a member of the Republic of Croatia should also play a major role in creating what this fund should look like, what to finance and how. So here I believe that you will also engage or offer them your own Analysis. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112960	Thank you, colleague Bačić, I think it is an extremely important topic and that we have somehow finally caught that rhythm that we react in time that it is no longer a post-festum that we are no longer in the phase as we have so far had to look for an exception because we cannot follow the pace but that we can, based on our experience, knowledge, innovation, technology that we have developed specifically in this segment that we are talking about today, offer solutions. In that sense, as far as I know, the government is already taking certain activities and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, and I believe that with the support of our private sector, which is really representative here, we certainly have what to offer. I think it's very important that what I said to you in the replica, that we don't somehow distract ourselves from the idea that BiH is our neighbouring country I've spoken to their representatives several times, is particularly interested in their sector of forestry which has urged them to help prepare some cross-border projects so that in fact our experience, but also membership in the EU could be used to demining BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112961	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112962	Thank you. Dear fellow Petyr, thank you for everything you said in the second part of the exhibition, I completely agree with you. I'll go back to this first part of minemination, you come from Sisak-Moslavina County which is the same as Lika-Senj County one of the most polluted mines. We heard that the Directorate of Civil Protection and the Croatian Mine Action Centre are doing mine risk education because mine explosives are still in place. It's especially important for children and schools. The report mentions the Swiss-Croatian programme where a database of mine victims and their families was created in order to provide them with psychosocial, educational and advisory assistance because these people are those who have not lost their lives and they certainly need all the help they need. Do you think that in addition to demining, we should also think about the consequences that these mines have left on our fellow citizens and help them to exercise both certain rights and to ease their burdens They got mine... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112963	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112964	Thank you, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. You're absolutely right when you draw attention to all the elements that followed the Homeland War and, of course, demining or accidents that happened because there was no knowledge of where the mines were. Many people have lost their lives or lost a part of their body and that is something that is irreparable. Therefore, because of the situation in which we are present today, we still have mine suspected areas, and it will obviously take a few more years for education to be important. It is also important to gain sensitivity to the families of the victims whom I express my condolences, to those who have become persons with disabilities for the reason that a very large part of Croatia was under mines, but also to have these children raised so that they would never be people who would reach out for weapons, who would attack the innocent, who would reach out for In other people's territory or tossing mines uncontrollably and destroying human lives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112965	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112966	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Petir here and I will congratulate you on your individual debate because talking about mines, about what remains after the aggression on Croatia are not just statistics, there are dead people, there are huge damages in agriculture, and about forests that we do not talk about. I will also congratulate you on your merit as a Europarliamentary on the amendment that you had only in 2015 realized that there are some suspicious mine areas in Croatia. And you need to talk about it. You need a clear and articulated speech like yours, someone is guilty of it, not someone, you know who's to blame for what happened, who left those mines in Croatia, why we couldn't solve them the way it was done after the war that had cards and everything else. Therefore, I think your debate is affected that we are not just talking about statistics, the number of hectares, the number of mines, but that we are talking about a problem that is Croatia cost sure of maybe 50-60 billion kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112967	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112968	Thank you to my colleague Ivanovic, that in addition to the money allocated for demining there should be added to the resources that would have followed as a penalty if we had not received this exemption and had not spread out and explained that Croatia could not manage with its territory and its forests during this period, that means those forests were there and they absorbed CO2, but we did not have control over them as we do today, so all of these are some contributions which, I think, are normal for each of us to give and to try to influence the best way to protect the interests of the Republic, but we should remember that all of this would not be, nor should that money be invested, nor would people have suffered that we had a good neighbour, unfortunately it was not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112969	And finally, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112970	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, in the context of this report and of the foreign policy situation that we have in mind that Croatia has indeed been in difficult times and in one difficult way acquired this experience safely so that today what is happening in Ukraine in a difficult situation, but that Croatia is ready to educate and show and participate not only in human but also in technology and in all these modern situations that can really show that Croatia is ready for such a challenge. And once again I want to thank you for all your time in the Europarlament and for doing and pointing out and giving amendments, and also for pointing out and sharing that truth about the Homeland War and Croatian defenders where we have often listened, once again I want to thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112971	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112972	Thank you, colleague Deur, I think you as a Croatian defender have a great deal of experience and a contribution to the creation of the Croatian state and you can also do much to help, especially with our colleagues in Ukraine, and I think that according to all the information that I have, Croatia has already offered on several occasions and its knowledge, especially in terms of peaceful reintegration, unfortunately I don't know how current this will be at this point in time the uplifted atmosphere and war conditions, but certainly the consequences of the war will be treated for years, especially in this segment when we are talking about mine action and demining, we have both knowledge and expertise and technology and innovation, and we can certainly offer help there. It is therefore important that at the right moment we present this and at European level in order to be a leader in this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-26-0.u112973	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, the debate was on reports for 2020 and '21. on the counter, on the implementation of the mine action plan and the financial resources spent, means for the 2nd year, in the '20s. And in '21, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
