ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83057	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative Željko Sačić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83058	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, we have the Croatian public, I have the law in hand, the decision to declare the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted on 22 December 2011, was promoted by Prof. Dr. Ivo Josipovic, then the president of the Republic of Croatia, actually signed Boris Šprem as president on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. In that law, there is a provision in Article 34 which is in fact a positive law, which prevents the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the event that members of the government commits a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 5 years in prison cannot be brought against them without government approval. This is today for us Croatian sovereigns, but also for many citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a just and truthfully disputed provision, and we believe that it must be abolished because there is no reason for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to restrict the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia to question the objectivity of the procedures of the Croatian Attorney General because they have put these provisions in place as in an explanation, so the State Attorney's Office could in some way subjectivise, i.e. a legal chicanite or malicious essence towards the members of the government. Well, that's a disastrous explanation where in one rough way, they express their mistrust in the objective work of the State's Attorney's Office and, with all the other conditions, they bind their hands to do their job. On the contrary, we Croatian sovereigns very much want and encourage the DORH in every way and the police independently do their job because let's not ignore the fact that up to 5 years in prison are not just criminal acts of traffic violations. So there are also serious crimes that are also corruptive in terms of abuse of official duties, receiving, giving bribes, various forms of official crimes where the government itself must be an incentive for such offenders and criminal types from its ranks, even if they were ministers itself to drive them away or force them to resign, let alone protect them from prosecution when police and DORH come to their knowledge that there is a certain quantum fact against them that indicates that they are perpetrators of criminal offences. So let us unite ourselves all in that part and the Croatian public and politicians and this scientific community that this provision and this tool which, by my deep conviction, is held by the President of the Government in whatever way it was, you see that this was done in 2011, so this is being dragged back to these days and the then prime minister who had this element in his hand, the present one has, and we are in trouble so if we ignore this war in Ukraine, a terrible thing, but we must not ignore that we are responsible for Croatian people to fight corruption, and one of the first tools is that the government is to be our bearer and chief feather in the fight against corruption, not to protect corruption in its own ranks, but even by law to protect us. Well, that doesn't make sense. When we Croatian police officers chase if they take a sandwich from a man, immorally unethical not to say illegally, he ends up having no immunity, he ends up in a tight court. Many, because of 100 euros or 50 marks once long or 100 kuna ended without bread and some, the official court said it was not appropriate, appropriate for police or customs officers or anyone else exercising public authority to receive or give bribes or in any way abuses. So how could a minister be exculpated while the Minister of Government is not to be prosecuted? So he can't be in the ranks of MPs in HS, MPs in HS have their immunity prescribed by the Constitution as well as the judges of the Constitutional Court,... the court, the attorney general, the President of the Republic, and in that rank the minister cannot be and it should be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83121	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83122	I thank the vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. In these days when all the legal proposals seem to be put on a different agenda compared to the news that comes to us from Ukraine, which is in war storm after the Russian attack on this friendly country when we prepare to take care of thousands of refugees from Ukraine, we find all possible ways to help the friendly country of Ukraine, there is an increasing need for Croatia to be a self-sustainable country both in agricultural production and in any other industrial production and energy. In particular, industrial production for construction is important because the restoration of earthquake damaged buildings has no alternative, trust in and in its beaks is an old saying today very current. It is enough to pass through our Slavonia and Banija to see how much abandoned agricultural potentials are available to us and it is only necessary to plant agricultural cultures that will allow its profitability to remain in these areas, especially young people, as well as to move into these areas of people who see their perspective and perspective for their families. Last week on February 22nd, the Social Democrats' Club organised a roundtable in HS on the exploitation of the full potential of hemp. Participants pointed out that hemp is used in many industries in construction, paper, textile, food, cosmetic, chemical, pharmaceutical, automotive, as well as space industry. Today’s technologies can produce about 25,000 different products from hemp. In particular, the environmental potential of hemp should be highlighted. The tavern can improve the state of the environment not only in terms of cleaning the polluted soil but also reduce CO2 emissions, as hemp consumes 4 times the CO2 of the trees. In addition to the mention of drinking CO2 hemp, it also removes active chemicals and toxins from the soil. Elimination of the removal of legally defined limit values, including the contents of 0,2% of THC in dry matter, would facilitate the production of hemp. The reason why the legalisation of hemp has become a trend in many countries is not only medical and environmental but also economically, both profitable and fiscal. In fact, countries that have legalized hemp for recreational purposes have extremely positive economic results. In 2021, the Canadian Chamber of Commerce announced that a hemp business is incomeing $17 billion annually, creating thousands of direct jobs and tens of thousands of auxiliary jobs. Countries that can, which are among the first to fully legalise or liberalise hemp, will benefit most from this because investment channels to three countries will open up which is of exceptional importance to the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law on the exploitation of the full potential of hemp, which we have referred to as the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, has enabled full liberalisation and legalisation of hemp, since the current legal framework does not prescribe how many hemp products can be produced, for example, in the construction industry, hemp concrete, insulating materials, hemp and other industries, and does not allow the production of hemp for recreational, or personal purposes. As for medical cannabis, various diseases, but individual patients also require different approaches. In California, we have clinics that practice exactly this individual approach. The greatest step in this direction, however, was made by the State of Israel. So we want the Republic of Croatia to be the leader in using all the potential hemp including this establishment of a clinic to treat and relieve pain to hemp preparations. We can't just sit around complaining about how our agricultural land is abandoned, unused and how young people move out because they don't see an economic perspective in the Republic of Croatia. We have enough raw agricultural land, we have thanks to God and mind and knowledge in this area as seen on the mentioned round table and exploiting the full potential of hemp. Just to be brave to move, to finally stop this moaning of ourselves and our poor destiny. We are not going to wait 2023 when foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, so they buy us all agricultural land for small money. Then our young interested entrepreneurs can really say write home has failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83201	Thank you very much. Since it's 1 hour now we'll stop working on this wheel and move on to taking a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak, he is gone, he loses his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83202	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. The political, social, economic and security circumstances in which we have found ourselves for the past week are completely different from anything we have ever been used to and from everything we expected. The aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has a significant impact on everyday life in both Croatia and the world. This influence is also seen in changing political circumstances that have entered into a completely extraordinary state of affairs from regular day to day. The civilized world reacted quickly and resolutely in an attempt to discourage and prevent Russia from continuing to wage war and to shine fear and death. These efforts were also joined by the Republic of Croatia, through the Government and with the support of the assembly, in a decisive response from all our allies and partners to the emerging situation. Logically and expected to join the RS response and the opposition, we supported the government's moves in this regard, we are aware of the situation and indeed would not be expected to do otherwise. However, no matter how terrible the situation in Ukraine is and how engulfing the thoughts of all people in Croatia, our domestic political problems have not disappeared or become smaller. The fact that we fully support the response to war in Ukraine does not mean that in any way we support other government policies, human decisions and moves that are being dragged within Croatia. Domestic news is harder to break through the forest of information from Ukraine that we've been tracking from minute to minute, but no one has been able to launch investigations and press charges against ministers in the government. Corruption, or suspected of corruption, remains one of the main problems of the HDZ government, along with corruption, nothing remains about recovery after the earthquake. We don't have a new minister or a minister, and we don't even know when it's going to be proposed. And regardless of the circumstances in the world, we will not stop questioning and criticizing the government over these and other issues. That's why I'm sorry, and I think it was the wrong and inappropriate reaction of Prime Minister Plenkovic yesterday when the MP and MPs who had critical comments on the work of the government declared the pests and traitors. It just doesn't work. Vladimir Putin will win right if we let that happen. The state of war in our neighborhood does not mean permission to suspend democracy and freedom of speech especially in the assembly, I do not enter into it at all, I agree with what is spoken or not, whether I agree with the moment when spoken or not it is the choice of each representative personally and it is completely irrelevant that anyone, including the prime minister, thinks about it. What's important is that life is still going on, that domestic problems are still problems and that both the government and the opposition continue to do their jobs, and the main job of the opposition is to question, point to bad things and be critical and it cannot be stopped by harsh words or by silent or open invitation to extraordinary circumstances. If something is a systemic pattern of the situation in which Europe has found itself, it is precisely an undeveloped democracy and a stifled opposition in Russia. Our mission, taught by this experience, is to strengthen our democracy, strengthen our awareness of the important role of the opposition, citizens and free media. I know the opposition government is getting on their nerves, so that's normal, but there's only one worse thing than the boring opposition, which is that the opposition is gone. In some things we will all agree and give support like the situation in Ukraine, about many we will not, neither will we in opposition to each other. There's no united opposition, it's an anti-democratic myth. Why would the left have to get along with the right, why would the liberals have to get along with the conservatives? We all do our jobs and represent those citizens who agree with us. But what we must keep in mind is that harsh words and ugly labels have no place. Criticism and critical are neither pestilence nor high treason, especially now that the very idea of freedom and democracy is under attack in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83261	On behalf of the Green-Left Blog's Club of Representatives will be a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83262	Thank you. In the session of the terrible situation in Ukraine in a situation that is at the edge of the global conflict, in a situation where it is called the opposition to taking common positions on aggression in Ukraine, it continues to be typical HDZ processes which are all just not focused on public interest or to say more clearly are directed directly against public interest. I'm talking again about a shipping institute that the government has decided to liquidate by its decision of 4.11. The decision only speaks of a 120,000 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s in New Zagreb, but nowhere, nowhere, not a single word mentions valuable and unique laboratory resource not only for Croatia but also for the wider region. Motivated by such an unreasonable and harmful decision, we organized a Round Table in the Parliament where we gathered aside from top experts and professors who in their exhibitions and in the debate have established the enormous value of the Brodar Institute for Croatian Science and Economy and sent a clear message that the liquidation and disposal of the Brodar Institute would be simply irreparable damage. They made very concrete proposals for survival, restructuring, reforming the current Broding Institute. All agreed that Brodarski should become a national technical institute that, in addition to maritime technology in the current context, should certainly highlight the unique role of the shipping role in the development of the Croatian Navy. Thus, with this maritime technology, it could develop its expertise and activity in related areas such as electromobility, hydrogen, the development of renewable energy sources, energy storage and the like. And work closely with domestic and foreign industries, and be associated with scientific and high school institutions. I guess it is not necessary to stress how important this is in the context of the current political and therefore energy situation. And also in the context of the fight against climate change in which we are late and green transformation has become simply imperative. In this, the new National Technical Institute as an upgrade to the present Brodar Institute is necessary and needs to be launched tomorrow. The center for restructuring and sale, therefore the CERRP as the legal representative of the Republic of Croatia in the Assembly of Society for three years, has done absolutely nothing to get out of the problems it has encountered. But the director of the CERRP Mr. Mladen Plecjaš rushed to appoint the liquidator until 12 to 15% of the government's resources were paid to the creditors exactly the opposite of the government's decision because the decision clearly states that after the payment of the equity loan, the company was obliged to notify the CERRP and to sell the CERRP at the latest within three days of the settlement of its commitments, and only then does the CERRP launch the liquidation. Mr. Plećaš also when commenting on a potential contract with the Slovaks on the restructuring of the Brodar Institute says that the state almost lost the most valuable property in Zagreb and again the property. Not a word about labs, valuable technical documentation, scientists. Why? Is it possible that, again and again, like 30 years so far, only someone's profits can be more important than the public interest of the Republic of Croatia? And again, we will be looking at some developer who will build shopping centres, apartments, cafes, make huge money, and Croatia is left without a unique scientific resource and potential, and it is irrevocable. Maybe we'll be watching the investigation open for a while and we'll see about Brodarski, but it'll be too late. To paraphrasise Tin Ujevic "it's all naked, it's all clear, but don't be late". I call again on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to launch as soon as possible processes that will save the Broding Institute, valuable laboratories, technical archives that will retain experts and scientists. The scientific community has made concrete proposals on how the process can be implemented within months. All it takes is a political decision, just a political decision. Save the Prime Minister Brodarski, it's all in your hands! This is your responsibility, especially at this time of vital interest for the Republic of Croatia and for all its citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83415	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Andreja Maric will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83416	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the first part, I will talk about the problems that health trainees face. I've already talked about it on several occasions. Let me remind you of over a year since the representatives of a large group of healthcare professionals who have been waiting too long for a traineeship, I have been working very hard on this issue. A series of parliamentary issues addressed to Minister Beros, the ministry's meetings gave birth to the following. In 2021, 2,000 seats were granted, for 2020 there were only 170 seats, and now 900 seats are scheduled for 2022. Unfortunately, it remains insufficient without the allocation of quotas of what real needs are. Although, at my request, the minister sent several letters to health institutions to re-apply quotas but within the framework of the existing regulation. There are no rules on the criteria for the assignment of internships, and the system is terribly slow. Yes, many have received an internship, some soon after schooling, but some continue to wait a long time for what is inadmissible. The State has prescribed the obligation to carry out the traineeship part of the health profession but is obviously not able to provide them with it. But here on 25.2.2022, a thematic session was finally held at my initiative in the assembly, health interns. For the first time, all stakeholders needed to solve the problem have gathered in one place. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, HZZ, HZZO, Ministry of Science and Education participated, representatives of health professions that are required to perform a traineeship. The debate was constructive, we presented the problem although there is a good will of the administration to solve the problems, however it was seen that it did not understand what all the problems were completely and unfortunately looking at things in the flat. But here we have come to the point where we have offered solutions. Ideally, it would be that the state can urgently schedule the required 2,500, 3000 seats and pay the internship but obviously there is no money for it. The State has prescribed the obligation to carry out the internship and must make it possible as soon as possible. It is necessary to try to shorten the duration of the internship from 12 to 6 months, so instead of the estimated 900 seats, it will be 1800 seats for 2022. The sooner you re-introduce the criteria for enrolment, length of study, average grades, etc., so that some do not get internships immediately after schooling, and some do not even after a few years. It is then necessary to change the allocation of quotas by the so-called institutions. The Regulation on standards for the reception of healthcare professionals on traineeships will no longer take place to open 675 places for nurses who no longer have to perform the internship and then remain unused. Next, the requirement to be at the employment office during the duration of the internship tender should be lifted. Now there is a potential problem, and I will, of course, still look for official clarifications because they say it is one of the EU's conditions for withdrawing funding. You need to know that many of these young people in order to survive do different jobs outside the profession of Glovo, Lidl, post office and thus are actually no longer at the employment office, they can't access the competition, it turns out there are only 700, and there are over 2000. In addition, hundreds of new people finish schooling in the 6th month, so those 900 seats won't be enough. We were also talking about abolishing the traineeship. Some chambers have declared that they are not in favour of abolishing the internships, some of them are, and we will see whether the ministry will do so on a partial basis or not. Changing the schooling quotas is a solution for the future, it will not solve the current problem but it also needs to be discussed further. There has also been a problem that due to the possession of more professional equipment, they cannot carry out the necessary training for medium professional equipment. And another problem she would point to, which is the health insurance problem of students. So, all students of the Republic of Croatia if they are regular have additional health insurance, but those students who study outside the EU and outside the Republic of Croatia do not have, and are regular students. For example, a bridge university funded by the Croatian state, however, such students from Dalmatia, Slavonia, etc., who are studying in Mostar are treated not as our regular students who are in the Republic of Croatia. They can even work through a student service as they do, but the problem is this supplementary health insurance issue. So, there is a gap in the law between the Law on the conduct of student affairs adopted in 2018, supplement 2020, until the Health Insurance Act is yet to be renewed, it will probably go this year, we will certainly insist on resolving both the issue and the additional health insurance students like that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83503	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Ante Deur will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83504	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we were in Pakrac yesterday marking the 31st anniversary of the start of the Homeland War. First of all, I must stress that the outcome of this resistance was built on patriotism by the few good and real people who, by example, showed that it could be impossible. These are the people who have become the wheel, who have launched others in the defence of the entire Croatian state. Unfortunately, today this same fate happens to each other and to other people who are constant in defending their independence against an army that does not cross the ban on the Geneva Convention. Ukraine is a country that defends itself like we used to against a military superior conqueror who takes territories under his paw. Only from one initiative because he doesn't want to accept those closest to them, and he thinks otherwise or different from them. Croatia, as a country that has fought in blood, has been called upon to show solidarity and support to Ukraine in all fields. The duty of us based on the experience in which we have been invited to respect the integrity of all, but to seek it for ourselves. EU support for Ukraine was quick and uncompromising that, unfortunately, 30 years ago, Croatia did not win in a fierce attack on Serbian aggression. After a long time, Europe has achieved Schuman's dream united in the community, for the first time, we act as a whole EU by providing groundless support and assistance to the Ukrainian people. I must stress that the objective and all constituent elements such as the customs union, freedom of the market, capital, the movement of people, the common trade zone is to show unity both in the diversity and recognition of the integrity of all members and to open new access routes. The HS has rarely seen such unity that we have achieved in terms of war in Ukraine, supporting Ukraine, respecting the courage of the Ukrainians as we have been in the Homeland War HS shows through a declaration of firm belief that it is a secure, stable and prosperous Ukraine in the strategic interest of all citizens of Ukraine, the EU, the entire European continent, world peace and international order. The EU has shown the strength that has been hidden in its citizens for all these decades. It is particularly important today that the EU and the international community pay additional attention to achieving the European perspective of neighbouring countries, especially BiH. It is time to agree and respect... the structure of BiH, or to reach an agreement on the electoral law. The deal is crucial for stability and progress, for functionality, for improvement, for the European perspective of BiH, which Croatia strongly supports. Speaking of stability in Southeast Europe, the issue of Serbia's stance towards Russian aggression is being raised. I believe that the Serbian leadership and people will have the wisdom and courage to say no to a policy that can only bring them back to the dark of the 1990s and that they will see their future in a united stable Europe. In front of Ukraine, in front of Russia, in front of all of us, Europe, the world is a long and painful way to negotiate peace and all of these events. We have shown that we can unite when a friend needs help, show enough political wisdom in finding the best solutions, ensure that military action ceases, sits at the table and continue diplomatically to solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83573	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83574	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we are again in difficult times after two years of pandemic, pandemic marketing, the simple formation of agency news we came to the second stage of this war in Ukraine where there is again agency news, where there is unilateral public intelligence and where we simply came in a position not to know how to judge something. But it is not my intention to talk today about the war in Ukraine but about how we cannot rely on the EU on food, on the situation in the Republic of Croatia and on our future. We must also be aware that the strongest EU countries have dragged their wealth through the centuries into their countries and thus have become large and that they continue to have such appetites for all and so do we. The proof of this is the state of Croatian agriculture, the proof of the situation is our production that we have in Croatia. And since we're in war times, in a war that threatens to escalate and expand from Ukraine to Europe, and not God, and the whole world, we have to think about what we're going to do tomorrow. At a time when our stock reserves have 15 kilograms of wheat per capita and two and a half kilograms of meat per capita, and that's the question if we have to think about making the future at least better. We need to think that the future crop that is also questionable in the Republic of Croatia, because the only plant of artificial fertilisers we've had we've sold in private hands. The private owner does not think about production but is thinking about profit. He is not considering whether the Croatian peasant will have artificial fertilisers that will enable him to make competitive contributions to be competitive on the world market. We see that the main raw materials that come for the production of artificial fertilisers, which are natural gas and mineral raw materials, come from Russia, that we have come to the stage that in the future we are likely to look hard for artificial fertilisers, or our production will be so low that we will be in far worse shape than we are today. I've warned several times that we're one step to hunger. Some may have been funny, but I think from today's position, from what we see today despite all these media blocks, we might be a little bit more aware that it is. So I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I appeal to the ruling party, the ruling coalition, to the Ministry of Agriculture that what I have already through my discussions on the Agriculture Development Strategy, I have said to abolish VAT on artificial fertilisers to all other repromaterials, to equipment that must be purchased, which has been drastically collected two years ago, to help farmers who do not have the capacity to co-finance or fully finance the storage of agricultural products so that they can welcome a higher price, and thus our stock reserves would be in far better shape than they are today. It is not a great effort for the government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is the help of those who need help most, but it is the help of those who are most easily adapted to poor production conditions, which are small and medium-sized OPGs. Large systems such as Forten will quickly fall into problems, and will hardly transform into forms that can adapt to emerging situations, and we see that situations change from day to day. It is the OPGs that are very quickly transformed which transform less production into production that is more necessary, which are more profitable and which need Croatian economy, but also Croatian agriculture. A little effort of mine, listen to it, work it out, and you will see that it will be a great benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83604	The next club of MPs will be that IDS, according to a respected representative, Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83605	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues I must begin to admit that in these days when we face war horrors in Ukraine and all that this war and humanitarian crisis carries with it will be somewhat and embarrassing to talk about someone else, someone may at this point be telling banal topics. But the fact is that the world has not stopped, the current and life issues and problems continue to have and should certainly point to them. Many of our citizens continue to face a number of daily problems and challenges that are rarely powerless and where they expect community assistance, and above all institutions that they believe might and should help them. I will specifically warn of the great problems faced by Istrian fishermen I have spoken to on many occasions. I am well aware of many of their problems and needs, some of which are more complex and not so easy to solve, and for some, however, there was just a little bit of goodwill and involvement of competent institutions. I believe the public knows very well about the great and already second-time current problem that Istrian fishermen have because of the unresolved issue of demarcation in the Savudrian Valley. For this reason, almost every fishing trip costs them large fines punishable by Slovenian police for allegedly illegal fishing in their sea. In fact, on the west coast of Istria, fishermen are forced to sail outside 3 miles from the coast in advance of being aware that they will receive fines of 700, 800 EUR, and some have thus collected incredible amounts that are numbered in hundreds of thousands of euros. What will be the question is, but despite the promises of our diplomacy of concrete shifts and help there is no help. These people live daily and work in constant fear of the unfounded debt being charged. And what that would mean for them is, unfortunately, not too much to explain. There are also some other problems that fishermen of northwestern and western Istria face. In recent times, the over-population of dolphins has caused them extensive material damage, sever nets, and eat fish caught. Delphines do not have a natural enemy, species are protected, and fishermen say that along the eastern coast of the Adriatic are far greater numbers than those of the relevant scientific institutions and ministries. It is, therefore, a fishing sector's desire to find a sustainable solution that will remove or binously mitigate the problem, I stress with the protection of the dolphin population, but also the right to work in the fishing sector as one of our important economic branches. The second, even fresher natural phenomenon that hit the fishing fleet in the area has been the unprecedented bustle of jellyfish with which fishermen of northwestern Istria have been struggling for more than 2 months. There are so many of them, and they are so big and heavy that they destroy the nets when they lift them up and pull them out, so some of them don't even go out to sea right now. They just don't know what to do or how to do it. They hope to help the institutions understandably so that, as many times as this time, they will not be left to themselves. I therefore appeal to the government and the competent ministry to help fishermen at least partially bridge this disaster that has made it impossible for them to work properly through a possible declaration of a natural disaster, and certainly by a concrete financial package. And then, of course, we should also find out why this natural phenomenon even occurred because of the warming of the sea or something else and see how to prevent it from happening again next year. I will repeat the fishing sector as one of our important economic branches. We all know it's bread with 7 crusts, so I'm convinced that these people deserve our understanding and our help that is of great importance to them right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83696	On behalf of the Club of Representatives For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u83697	Thank you. Your Honor. In the Croatian public, the news has been silenced that after the EU and US President Jo Biden's administration, the Croatian government has expressed dissatisfaction with the way the Croatian government is fighting corruption and is in Zagreb setting up a special legal adviser. Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic thus suffered another severe political blow. After the investigation against Gabriela Zalac, but also some former ministers in Plenkovic's government took over European investigators from the installation of a special US legal adviser in Zagreb, another sign is that the international community does not trust the Croatian prime minister when he says his government is doing everything it can when it comes to fighting corruption and organised crime. The US legal adviser starts working in Zagreb in April, and except for Croatia, he will also be in charge of the Western Balkan countries such as Serbia, BiH and Montenegro, but the fact that the work will lead from Zagreb is a clear message from the Biden administration of what attitude he has towards the Croatian government's fight against corruption. The arrival of a special legal adviser in Croatia is a significant message to the Croatian summit and tells the prime minister himself that the news has been cut short in Croatia's political space and Croatian media. Nor should the American sensitivity to energy issues be forgotten, so the new US legal adviser will pay almost certainly special attention to the observation of all aspects of the Croatian government's and Andrej Plenkovic's relationship to the INA and MOL issues. Although the prime minister argues that his government is successfully fighting corruption moves by the first European prosecutor's office, and now the US government has shown that this is not quite true. Already, the fact that an important American government adviser will be doing his job from Zagreb deserves attention, especially as it is a man who will directly oversee corruption practices as well as those related to organised crime. It is very likely that the future legal adviser will focus his work on countries such as Serbia or BiH, but it is also certain that US President Jo Biden's administration will send a clear message to the government of Andrej Plenkovic that Croatia is not satisfied with the way in which corruption and organised crime are being dealt with at the moment. It is also an interesting timing for tendering, so in the moments when the Croatian State's Attorney's Office found itself at the centre of attention because of the cover-up of former Minister Gabriela Žalac's affair. The case revealed all the weaknesses of the domestic judicial system, and the DORH took a major blow by including European investigators, and Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek remained in office only thanks to the prime minister. But Plenkovic has turned his attention to the international political public in the future, and in the future, other than European investigators who are investigating largely various cases of embezzlement involving other former Plenkovic ministers will now have to take care of the US legal adviser. For Biden's administration to think seriously about the new function of legal adviser is seen from the text of an ad published on the US Department of Justice's pages, the adviser will specify how they operate from Zagreb, and the assistance will be focused mainly on fraud in public procurement, corruption, money laundering, organised crime, gender-based violence and human trafficking. The following is also said in the course of the competition, a permanent legal adviser will represent the Ministry of Justice in implementing technical assistance activities financed by the Office of the State Department for International Narcotics and Law Implementation, which would increase capacity to investigate criminal prosecution and trial in cases involving corruption and organised crime throughout the Western Balkans, specifically including Montenegro, Albania, BiH, Croatia, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia and Serbia. For Croatia, the key issue it will play throughout the process is whether it will be one of the main American partners in the whole story or because of the growing number of corruption affairs it will be part of the problem that Biden's administration is trying to solve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94807	Dear Parliamentarians and Parliamentarians good morning. On the basis of Art. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Justice suggest that HS conduct a joint debate on the points of the first and second agenda foreseen for today and on points 3 and 4 foreseen for today. The first and second are the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act and the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on consumer bankruptcy, and the third and fourth Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register and the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies. Do we agree on a united debate? No objection, thank you. Then we will conduct a united debate on these points, so now we move on to the first two points, these are: - The final draft law on amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 231 and - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Bank Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 232. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and I would like to call now, but no, I see we have a request for a break, fellow Members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94808	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF Club for 10 minutes to warn of this important law. This law can be crucial for workers and workers who will lose their jobs in the coming months and then come into that classic situation that workers are in these bankruptcy proceedings at the very end and generally fail to collect their claims. We know that Kamenski workers have only charged 15% of their claims, we know of situations where owners have burdened the property with separate rights so that, as in the case of DINA and DIOKI, Robert Ježić, workers have failed to collect their claims. When I first read the law, I asked the Secretary of State to make changes and supplementing this law means art. Paragraphs 2 and 3 which would allow workers to gain easier access to their hard-earned salaries. This article, unfortunately, and in the second reading, did not change, I went even with the conclusion, so here I was discouraged by our colleague, Bukarica, so I gave up on him, but that conclusion was just directed at the legislator to warn that it was very important to change that article that unfortunately did not appear in this second reading either. Without this change, and here we are going into major and extensive changes to this law, we are not going to allow workers to secure the collection of their funds, and this law is actually in line with the Restructure and Insolvency Directive which just points to more attention to workers and enable them to participate not only in the process of restructuring the company but also in the process of bankruptcy. We'll probably have a sad situation, here's to 3:00. May is once again being prepared for a large number of cancellations, uncertain means the future of many companies, and it is very important that this law be changed in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94809	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94810	Thank you very much, President. We are also looking for a two-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to say once again that these Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and on the Banking Law and on consumer bankruptcy are primarily not only going into the implementation of the Directive but are going into strong changes to laws which will primarily go into the protection of workers and increase the rights of workers. We will see this through the debate today and through the promoter where both bankruptcy managers and the court will have to report in time and to HZZO so that all workers have health insurance. It will also be included in the DIP which will be authorised to report employee claims in order, therefore, to ensure that there are sufficient resources in the bankruptcy procedure based on the search for the budget of the institutions or funds, in order to ensure that the gross salaries of workers are settled if there are also sufficient funds in the bankruptcy mass, in the event that both the bankruptcy manager and the workers have not reported demand from the base of pay in the bankruptcy procedure. It is also going into a series of measures and the professionalisation of bankruptcy managers, so it is going to be with the training of bankruptcy managers, where it will also be done to make bankruptcy what is necessary to react with an early alert for all those entrepreneurs and privates who have problems in their business, that is how the competent authorities will be tasked to help all of them to overcome situations that happen to them in a negative sense not to go into bankruptcy but therefore to preside over teaching themselves further, as well as through a financial agency related to reporting to citizens and consumers related to their simple and regular bankruptcy will help the wider circle have more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94811	Thank you. The third explanation of the rest of your colleagues, Mr. Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94812	Thank you. So, I want to make it clear here that the Croatian people have nothing to do with the fact that Prime Minister Plenkovic and the entire government are a key factor in defending Ukraine. Croatian citizens have serious problems. We're talking about consumer bankruptcy here today. What does the FINA run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia do? He raises fees for paying bills by almost 60% and what kind of message when the media asked them why they are doing it in the wake of the biggest crisis of FINA and Croatia mailing a message we are not a social institution. So what happens to Croatian citizens and Croatian consumers because of the rise in energy prices? Have we paid enough attention to that? What did the government do about the silent minuses? Both the CNB and the government said they'd regulate it. Nothing's been regulated. Croatian citizens are on the verge of poverty, the government has done nothing. About the fuel, it did not go into the reduction or elimination of excise duties, but to the insane freezing of fuel prices, which will eventually be spilled over the back of Croatian citizens and Croatian consumers. That's the problem. Salapic will not defend Ukraine, Plenkovic will not defend Ukraine, nor will Jandrokovic. Deal with real problems of Croatian citizens. Don't hide your corruption behind this situation around Ukraine and use Ukraine and the sacrifice of the Ukrainian people as a fig leaf but solve the problems of Croatian citizens and remove corrupt ministers from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94813	And you will surely save Ukraine?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94814	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94815	And better. We are now going to the fourth debate or to explain the break, colleague Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94816	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The bankruptcy law is one of the key qualities of which the overall quality of Croatian justice depends, and how they will be implemented depends on the impression of citizens whether we are a fair and functional state. Unfortunately, the way they are, the way this law transposes regulations and directives once again proves to us that we contain forms, not essentials. Therefore, it is said that the purpose of this law is to allow sustainable businesses and entrepreneurs, to be preventively restructured, to allow for the continuation of their work. First of all, there was a need to run an analysis of where it's stuck so far. How many bankruptcy managers saved companies whose bankruptcys they ran? The key problem of the bankruptcy law in the Republic of Croatia is lack of control over the work of bankruptcy managers. These controls simply do not exist or are introduced by this law. Another problem is that we did not prescribe qualifications, specific qualifications of bankruptcy managers to take over a particular firm. So, if the company deals, I don't know about leather gallantry, then the bankruptcy manager must have some knowledge about it. It doesn't exist in our system. And just when they were able to save some companies because they didn't know about the dam they found themselves in, the company was completely ruined. No control of the costs incurred in the bankruptcy proceedings. Absolutely nothing. In Croatia, bankruptcy proceedings were conducted against companies and companies where costs exceeded actually many other items that led to insolvency. Not a single item in this law concerns and does not touch these key fundamental problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94817	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94818	Dear Members, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club in order to once again warn that this law has not been firstly supported by the professional public, how it will strike on the back and on the citizens and small entrepreneurs who are unfortunately living in Croatia more difficult and the government as if by this law it is preparing citizens and entrepreneurs for bankruptcy because Croatia is awaiting a difficult year. I'm asking you, in this year's last year where it all gathers in which prices of food products have gone and about 150 percent how is it possible that the state has failed to control anything at all? You know how it's possible? Because, unfortunately, the state is bending to the interests of foreign owners and foreign trade chains because how else do you explain that an identical product in a store in Zagreb costs more than one store in Slavonia in the same trade chain? How do you explain that this product in Croatia is 30% more expensive than in the same store in Germany? How do you explain that some products have increased as much as 150%? How do you explain that the government today tolerates the march on gasoline for approximately 2 kunas while the margin was once 50 limes? So do foreign trade chains run this country, do foreign owners or Croatian state run this country? State, the government is doing nothing to protect the citizens. Measures such as reducing VAT to food will go into the pocket with foreign trade chains, not citizens because we've seen it before. Therefore, Croatia, eaten by corruption, would certainly have been easier to deal with from the crisis if it hadn't been for corruption. But the corruption that confirms that there are one behind the other ministers ending under investigation simply proves that billions in Croatia go to corruption rather than to a better life of citizens. Imagine that these billions that, according to Transparency International, go to corruption were directed to raise wages and pensions. So, citizens in Croatia would certainly live much better today, have a higher standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94819	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94820	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes in order to point out once again that these amendments and additions to the Banking Act do not go into scale. And what's the measure? Finally calculating with the bankruptcy mafia. Why do I say it's about the bankruptcy mob? Well, the spread of corrupt judges and bankruptcy managers has cost this country millions, millions so far, and the state still loses millions because of their wrong decisions. Your last case is Sinjska brickna where the space in the centre of Sinja was sold for ridiculous amounts. And who's at a loss? Again, the Republic of Croatia. And while on the one hand he has a Tax Administration that hunts our citizens around the world to pay them taxes because, as long as their family lives in Croatia, they have to pay taxes in Croatia. On the other hand, bankruptcy managers in the face of corrupt judges are costing this country millions and millions of kunas. Only legally in 17 years, 250 bankruptcy managers legally received 7 billion kunas because through bankruptcy property was managed by 112 billion kuna. Therefore, this law should be done in a way that finally deals with what we can freely call a bankruptcy mafia, and this law does not go into scale and will not solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94821	The apartment is approved. Here you go, colleague of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94822	Thank you. Dearlywed, I demand a 10-minute break on behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia in order to point out once again the certain illogicalities that occur in our society. So, 2016. When we passed the Consumer Banks Act, we had over 300,000 citizens who could use that bankruptcy or they could ask for a write-off of the debt provided for by that law. However, of those 250,000 who were then able to request a write-off of the debt, the method was used by about 10,000 citizens. Why is it so, why did citizens who were in serious trouble throw letters that arrived at their home address that allowed them to write off their debt, ignore them and throw them in the trash? Have we paid attention to this bill and the circumstances, and are we even aware that Croatia is actually located or that Croatian citizens are in a difficult situation and more and more will come into blockades? So we're talking about huge gatherings that follow the daily lives of our citizens, and we've actually created institutions that become their own purpose, is that okay, is this law going towards facilitating the bankruptcy of our citizens or not? I think there's still a lot to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94823	If you'll call, yes, Comrade Bartulica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94824	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. I will repeat once again that Croatia is not in the right way faced with the legacy of socialism, communism and all that it brings with it unfortunately. Compared to other countries that are far ahead of us, and were behind us, Croatia is losing the race. We have a dysfunctional public administration, so when nothing happens in the restoration, when we see in Banovina the state of despair of people and in Zagreb nothing changes, so the public administration cannot send it into bankruptcy. People who are irresponsible in their positions and possibly because of corruption affairs can be removed or ended up in custody, but companies end up in bankruptcy, there are other rules on the market if you fail to do business, and the conditions of business in Croatia are very difficult. That's why young people have two choices or abroad because there are jobs or get a job somewhere in the public sector because they create new jobs through political corruption, clientelism and the like. So this is the kind of Croatia we have, and the price is huge, and this is best seen by the census. So our governance model doesn't meet the real needs of our people, and I'm going to keep doing it and I'm going to repeat it, because the simple irresponsibility at public functions from the local level to the central government is too great, we see what's going on, so the government is fighting for political survival because every day new ministers are under investigation. So there must be something urgent changing, and this law, even if it is perfect, is a small drop in the sea as long as Croatia is lagging behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94825	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we'll take one break by 10 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94827	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputies and MPs, you are presented with the Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of the Republic of Croatia, which implements in Croatian legislation the provisions of the EU Directive of 2019 1023, amending the EU Directive of 2017 1132, on restructuring and insolvency in the frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt waiver and banning and measures to increase the effectiveness of the procedures relating to restructuring, insolvency and discharge of debts. Subject changes shall redefine the conditions for the appointment of bankruptcy managers, the award of cases to bankruptcy managers. The issue of continuous professional training of bankruptcy managers is defined and a better quality system of supervision of bankruptcy managers is introduced. A work warning system is being introduced for companies with difficulties in order to advise themselves in time and eventually find a way to address financial difficulties. In addition, we introduce stronger protection mechanisms for workers in insolvency proceedings with regard to health insurance and payment of contributions to pension insurance. When it comes to consumer bankruptcy, the time of consumer behaviour checks is reduced from 5 to 3 years. In parallel, the period shall be reduced and the period shall be reduced to the right to be released from the remaining obligations when the court will not determine the period of verification and behaviour from 10 to 6 years and now from 5 to 3 years. In addition, we reduce the amount when the consumer is considered unable to pay its debts which so far were more than 30,000 kuna, we reduce to a total of more than 20,000 kuna. This eliminated the gap between regular consumer bankruptcy and simple consumer bankruptcy. The amendments and additions to the proposed laws will ensure better quality implementation of pre-banking procedures, create a legal framework for the establishment of an effective early warning system and ensure greater protection of the rights of bankrupt workers and enable consumers to deal with the financial problem or debt more quickly. We propose that the laws in question be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94828	Thank you very much. Let's go with the replicas, first up, colleague Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94829	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, together with Romania, the European Commission singles us out as the worst members in which creditors charge barely 30% of their claims. Well, my question is very simple. Do you feel that the main problem in itself, when we talk about bankruptcy proceedings, is the bankruptcy managers themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94831	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we believe that this new legal framework has created stronger tools, above all, for the supervision of bankruptcy managers, in the way they work, by now leading the list of bankruptcy managers under these amendments to the law of the Ministry of Justice and of the Administration, and also by controlling who can and who cannot be a bankruptcy manager. We've had A and B bankruptcy managers so far, and now we've got a list of qualified and highly qualified bankruptcy managers, and we want to prevent people who have just passed creditor exams in this one from getting extremely difficult cases where there's a problem with time and perhaps with the way of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings. We're aware there's a problem, they're not since yesterday. They have been accumulated for many years, however, and these laws are under the supervision of the European Commission, and today is a meeting.../incomprehensible/... with the European Commission regarding the National Recovery and Resistance Plan when the bankruptcy law will also be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94832	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94833	Thank you. In teaching what I explained means when it was the first reading of this law we warned you that it was necessary to amend Article 254 of paragraphs 2 and 3 to allow workers to come more and to have a bigger, better situation when they collect their claims, and we all know that workers very little are charging their claims. So the bankruptcy manager is the first in line to collect, so he, the payer goes to him, the creditors get their debts back, but to the workers their hard-earned salaries don't. To change that, it was necessary to amend that article. I wonder why you haven't changed it. Thus, it would be possible for the determination of the case-law to be fixed at a flat rate of 15, and not at a rate of 5%, which is in accordance with Article 10 and Article 23, which are now included in the larger greater participation of workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94834	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94835	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we believe that these amendments, this final bill put workers' rights to a higher level than they were so far. I've already said about health insurance, pension insurance. As for bankruptcy managers, we also saw that there are problems, that I do not repeat what I said to the distinguished representative Kujundzic, so we want this control at the Ministry of Justice and Administration to create quality, professional and impartial bankruptcy managers under the supervision of the ministry will take care primarily of their work, their time of work, and I also said about how someone can become a bankruptcy manager. We've had legal gaps so far, and I think we've fixed these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94836	Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94837	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here, as we could hear from this final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on bankruptcy and the bankruptcy of consumers, an early call is introduced, or early warning of debtors relating to situations where certain difficulties exist and thus brings them into one, a better position where they will go through and counselling and all go in the direction of overcoming financial problems so that a particular entrepreneur does not end up in bankruptcy or so that he can continue to work successfully later. My question is therefore, on the one hand, it will be regulated through the Regulation, on the other hand, and the Ministry of Economy has therefore proposed that, through the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, the possibility of early warning of the debtors of the small economy, I would like to know whether it will be united or whether this warning will be done by the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship in its own way, and the Ministry of Finance in its own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94838	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94839	Thank you very much. The honourable representative is just the intensities of this final bill to be in line with the conclusions of the debate in the first reading. So that's where we added it to Article 7a. The bankruptcy law is a new paragraph 6 where this early warning system is to be introduced not only on the proposal of the Ministry of Economy but also with the Tax Administration and the Financial Agency. It's not just about bankruptcy, it's about pre-determined. Therefore, it is not our aim to achieve neither pre-demand nor bankruptcy proceedings, but to try to help an entity in business problems to prevent such proceedings from happening early in time. I think we are also in line with the directive, but also with the possibilities this is a major change in the bankruptcy law where many people will find themselves in a situation to help them before they get into business problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94840	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94841	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Secretary of State is the fact that this bankruptcy law is clearly not satisfied with either, entirely nor with the believers, nor with the debtors. Why don't you just make an assessment, a deep assessment of the impact of the regulations, and make one complete, complete amendment of the law that will be comprehensive. Instead, we wait for the EU with a directive to hit us on the fingers and then we go with the dotted changes. Make one depth assessment and simply a comprehensive amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94842	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94843	Thank you very much. Dear MPs cannot agree with you that these are only dotted amendments that are the implementation of the European Directive that I have stated in the opening presentation, but we are also going beyond the European Directive. So we are aware of the problems relating to the bankruptcy law and the bankruptcy of consumers. Remember the time when we passed the Law on Pre-departure Deals, then with 114 votes of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, we brought unanimity minors in order to help people in these pre-fashion proceedings. However, these legal gaps and the ways in which this was being carried out we are aware that it takes a lot of time to repair what was not right. I believe that these amendments, which I agree with you, need more laws to make full changes, but we are now in time to do this because of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but also because of the urgency of the situation, we have done this. And I think we should all support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94844	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94845	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your honorary secretary, you mentioned now the pre-demand settlements, the intention that she wanted to be, should have been achieved by that law was very good. After that, however, there was no concern for fraud. Are you aware of how much compulsory companies have after this actually helped some companies never repay their debts to true believers or true believers? So that's a big problem. And that's the kind of thing we need to do in our laws. We should also address this problem that we have with bankruptcy managers and trade courts. I think we're all aware of what's going on with the bankruptcy managers.../incomprehensible/... I'm glad you put it in the law that a little control can be done who can be the bankruptcy manager, who can't be. However, we should also later carry out control of their work, the efficiency of what they make, where that money ends, how successful they are in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94846	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94847	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I think it's the task of all of us, regardless of who the opposition is now, and who is in power, the problems are common they go to the past, and they will be in the future. As far as bankruptcy managers are concerned, I think this list of highly qualified bankruptcy managers has made a major shift. So I'm just gonna say what the conditions are for these people. For a highly qualified bankruptcy manager, a person who has been entered in the list of bankruptcy managers for at least 7 years, appointed as a bankruptcy manager in at least 2 bankruptcy proceedings in which creditors can be identified as medium and large entrepreneurs, who have successfully completed at least 2 bankruptcy proceedings by confirming the bankruptcy plan. So I think these conditions that we're looking for new ones will have a major impact on the quality of these bankruptcy managers. That's right, and we'll also be taking care of the Ministry of Justice and the administration to keep that expertise and education at the highest possible level. These are not only our European obligations, I think these are obligations that will be for the future of all of us, regardless of who will be in power at what time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94848	I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94849	I'm sorry, I'd just say that we accept all amendments to the Legislative Committee for both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94850	Okay. Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening the debate is the first turn of the Most Representatives' Club and counterpart Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94851	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, what is the whole taste of this package of laws we will see in practice. Do we need a change? It's obvious. What and in what size? It'll only show us time. And I believe, on the other hand, that it's more than ever in the state's interest to sweep up the garbage that's been accumulated for years if we talk about everything that's bankruptcy that's involved. All of what we've had so far can be seen and understood in the facts that I'm going to make as well as in the manipulations in bankruptcy proceedings, and in particular in pre-fashion settlements. In addition to the fact that the judiciary is found under an increase most often mentioned earlier, it opens another dilemma that I have asked the secretary of state as a question. Are the main problems in bankruptcy proceedings or laws, or are they the ones that apply the laws, and never catch them? As I said, the European Commission has not given us much of an enviable position together with Romania. Perhaps in that spectrum we should observe the urgency, the urgency of these changes. I hope this proposal will not pass as a pre-fashion settlement that was introduced in the term of the government of Zoran Milanovic when lucid Slavko Linic was the finance minister. Their introduction into legislation and practice was explained by the need to speed up the bankruptcy proceedings that lasted for years. It seems to me that Nama in Zagreb still lasts over 20 years if I am not mistaken. Until all the property of the debtor drowned, and he fell forever. Linic's credit is that he still has the opinion and the stories are that the advances as well as the bankruptcy procedures in which someone is always favored and someone is peeled to the skin. There are bankruptcys, but always below the vote, and yet there is no public speaking as a form of institutional thieving. And there is a small number of those procedures that have ended with criminal charges, and all of us who have seen or heard, and I will mention to you what happened and what genocide has been affected by the bankruptcy genocide has never been held responsible for this. The importance of these changes also implies that each other's newly founded company fails until its fifth birthday. As crazy as this has been so far, unfairly and badly, we can see how I said, by example, the property landscape itself that I repeat, I'm going to hit a bankruptcy genocide. He had economic stability not long ago, but also demographic stability. Since the 1990s, 11 factories and companies have been closed in the Imot region, which have employed and fed more than 9000 people. I will mention Novogradnja in Zagvozd, the commercial giant Progress, the textile factory Biokovka and Trimot, the special purpose factory Imostroj, where the mortars were produced in the 1990s, and on the foundations that today formed a business centre, in which day after day not the populist but the real shops are closed. In the list of these never endings, as followed by the Imot winery, the agricultural combination of Agrococa, the plant Brodosplit in Prološč, the water industry, the auto company, etc. They all have a common bankruptcy denominator. Today, politicians in a region that is faithful to HDZ policy love to fence and say that they were social factories where certain forms of social peace were purchased, and that they were all strongly condemned to failure or that an individual was guilty on the other hand. But I agree it's the individual who didn't fall off the pear. The most common policy in those times was the one who set it up, and the bad laws have been doing it for many years. It turns out that the laws of this package in those times were written by no one but the directors of not only these giants from Imotska krajina, but throughout Dalmatia, where 65,000 people were left without work on the basis of bankruptcy, and then throughout Croatia. Once the shopping centre of this part of the Dalmatian hinterland and neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina fell on a beggar stick and all these executive joints destroyed and sold us out, dismembered us like a last rag that I don't know if we can wipe the floor anymore. And today what is most regrettable is walking free, acting great Croats, honest people and patriots. And we can forgive them all, but what we'll never do is take our pride. I'll bring up Imot's winery. Her account was blocked in 2014. Believers forgave her 70% of the 98 million kuna debt. The property, not after all these write-offs and more favourable arrangements, failed to repay the debts. She fed about 400 families and 700 other cooperatives. She outlived several failed tenders that the Privatisation Fund tried to sell for a single kuna. However, the unwanted bride evidently, despite the sale price of 1 kuna, was behind her in the obligation to preserve jobs and repay debts, so no one wanted to get rid of the mustache. The agricultural combination Property of bankruptcy failed to save itself by pre-banking a settlement successfully concluded with its 63 creditors in November 2014. And it was finally sold at a public auction after 13 contests no one answered. The workers and the cooperatives are also owed hundreds of thousands of kuna. Even 52000 square meters of fallen winery Imota has been sold for how much? For 600,000 kuna. So the selling price was 86 lip per square. His earned salary requires 70 workers of the former winery. Inside the sold complex there is also the Mozaik Hall which is on the list of protected facilities. The Ministry of Culture said that according to law, the owner should protect and protect cultural well-being, and therefore it is not necessary and physically possible to single out the area in which he is culturally well-being. The Trimot factory where my mother left 30, just over 30 years of her life. She had about 1,000 employees. Half a million kuna prizes were given to the bank manager and all the money from the sale of land was taken by the state. It was sold for a million and 300,000 kuna. There's a big nothing for the workers! And today they survive in fields beneath the Imotski beruca and planting fruits and vegetables, and cleaning apartments on the Makarska coast. The administrations that systematically destroyed the factory walk and live much better for my mother and all the other 899 women who worked upstairs. What's a tragedy if we're talking about Trimoto is that the state was giving support, and the money was gone. It's more than a hundred million kunas in debt. I'm not going to mention here an ex-trade giant progress whose property doesn't even know where she ended up whose lollipops and beavers that managed him walk, and no matter how I go on, I won't because it's quite a pain in the ass. I believe that this form of genocide will never happen in Croatia again. I believe and warmly hope that the changes in this area that we can truly spit on from all sides, if we wanted to, but I hope that this one we call the centralized system of appointment of bankruptcy managers never anywhere again, and no one on any inch of this country will lead to agony, I will not talk about the lives of all those who have certain companies, certain factories built by their work. And responsible for the end of the claim, all state-owned companies or all those that should be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, put into the hands of the workers, surely this kind of genocide will not happen. We will in good faith support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94852	The second is the Club of Representatives of Croatian sovereigns and respected colleague Vukilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94853	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The first question, of course, that is imposed on all of us when we see this extensive material and we see the number of articles that change these amendments and the additions of the law are always the same. When you change over 100 articles whether we should have made a new law rather than going into changes and additions, although it is a very complex matter, a complex law. And if we look at what happened from the first reading to this second one, there hasn't been any major changes, some grammatic peas have been corrected, some nomotechnical. The only thing that can be pointed out is art. 4th relating to Art. 7.a The bankruptcy law in which a new item has been added to which it is prescribed that the ministry responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts will ensure the establishment of an early warning system for small economy entities and should be commended because it is through pre-determined settlements that a number of small entrepreneurs have been severely damaged because their negotiating power is extremely weak especially in such situations and then amounts that are for large economic operators something that they can easily and without major problems overcome for them are extremely problematic and can be even devastating and lastingly disrupting their business. This law is really important. Over the years, we have witnessed numerous irregularities and even criminal activities, activities that are on the verge of legality, which have filled media columns, and then ultimately we always have to ask the same question, which is whether through bankruptcy the company has been given a chance for further work, for restructuring, whether the property has been preserved, whether it has been put into office and ultimately whether workers and creditors have settled their claims. Many examples point to the fact that all of this remained somehow in the background, and these situations in which companies went into bankruptcy were used by bankrupt managers and corrupt judges for personal gain because often creditors do not fully settle, but high fees are paid to bankruptcy managers. I've already said, I'm going to repeat once again that over 14,000 bankruptcys have been carried out over 17 years, the bankruptcy mass has been 112 billion kunas. For the legal fees of 250 bankruptcy managers, 6.8 billion gross were paid and 50 judges were tried in those cases. That's legal. And what's illegal, what's illegal, it's criminally measured by millions because there's an affair in bankruptcy proceedings, and unfortunately new ones appear every day. So the bankruptcy managers in connection with the corrupt judges illegally obtained millions of dollars and indeed we can rightly say that this is about the bankruptcy mafia. Business premises, camps are resold, then fictitious bankruptcy proceedings, and instead of bankruptcy proceedings being quick, fair and effective, we continue to witness these bad examples. The latest is the bankruptcy of Ciglana from Sinj, which has been on its way for ten years, and recently, the Court of Auditors has sold valuable property of Ciglana in Sinj in the city centre, and it is almost invaluable, although a normal procedure by selling that land could be settled by a number of creditors. Namely, the brick is located in the centre of the closest town of Sinja land of approximately 35,000 square meters, which is estimated at 500 kuna per square metre because it is loaded with mortgages, so the price is low. But apparently it wasn't low enough but it was going to an even lower price, it was sold into incriminating, and it was 150 kuna per metre square. All of this information is introduced to both the judge and the bankruptcy manager and the president of the court, when it was seen that no one was responding for the exception, the sale was done, and in principle the creditors were there who were able to make good peace with the loss, and the clear profit was of course for someone else and then what else to call it than the bankruptcy mafia. And obviously it's a practice that goes on and on, the credentials are, of course, desperate and maybe it's 10,000 kuna then the whole system of persecution would be on their feet, and here when millions go, then nothing, it's all somewhere on the edge of the law, but here it's all by law and in principle what's worse in that situation is that there was the possibility of saving both property and in principle to satisfy a large number of creditors who were actually looking for a delay in selling that property in the centre of Sinj. And nothing was done, the land was sold at a symbolic price, and what's worst for it is probably no one's answer, nothing's going to happen, and we all still need to look at that lack of responsibility. The fact is that the state in these bankruptcy proceedings loses millions because the state is also a creditor for contributions to salaries, for taxes, the local tax community will not be charged any of that, but the tax collectors are really very agile when it comes to hunting Croats around the world who went to profit with their belly after bread and pay them back five years for income tax. What I'm going to point out again, that's what I said in my first reading, that's the art. 54. Based on which only those who are legal and economic professions can access the expert exam for the bankruptcy manager, it is not too logical for me why the legal person could be better able to lead the bankruptcy of the quarry, cementists, I don't know the bakers or the production of cakes than perhaps some technologist, engineer, etc., but I see that the legislator actually stays in it and nothing has changed there, I don't see why some other professions would be less qualified for the work of a bankruptcy manager. If it wasn't all that black, I'd point out some good things in this proposal, and that's what's being solved for workers who are always pretty damaged in these bankruptcy proceedings. A major problem is solved where workers are paid gross wages after the bankruptcy process ends, they get the money, but it remains so. We can call it a hole of two or five years during which taxes and contributions are not paid, which is a major problem, of course, when they go into retirement related to their total work experience, these changes and additions are dealt with and that is generally good. It is also good to introduce a new bankruptcy collection and monitoring system so that data on the average cost of the bankruptcy process will be monitored, the number of entrepreneurs who have passed the procedure leading to forgiveness of the number of entrepreneurs, the number of jobs lost. We'll have at least some valid statistics based on which we can then make quality decisions in the future. All in all, when everything is somehow audible to this amendment and supplementation there are both good and bad sides, of course no legislative solution is ever perfect, but once again I will point out, maybe we should have made a new law and reform it thoroughly, make it all a solution to all these problems. And ultimately, the most important thing is to prevent criminal acts that were really too much. Here is my colleague Kujundzic, before me, listed just some in a small town in Dalmatia Zagora called Imotski, when I would begin to list everything that happened in a small town from Slavonia in Osijek, and then I wouldn't have had enough of these ten minutes but probably it would have taken me a lot longer to list just the factories that existed in Osijek, which are no longer in the tracks. As for consumer bankruptcy and this proposal, I sincerely only hope that citizens who are truly in serious financial difficulties will be helped to overcome them more easily and in principle to live up to that consumer bankruptcy because it has not yet come to life and the question is whether these changes and additions will make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94854	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a colleague, Bernardic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94855	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So it's already said a lot about this law and about consumer bankruptcy and bankruptcy in first reading, but what's important is to point out at the beginning that this law has not been supported by the expert public. So he didn't get support or an association of bankruptcy managers, but it's less important, what's much more important is that he didn't get support in at least all segments from professors, respected intellectuals of insolvency rights who were first called into question when this matter was simply on the agenda. And when it is seen that this law is in line with the 2017 Directive. on restructuring and insolvency as well as its 2019 amendment which should be aimed at strengthening the national bankruptcy framework then the question is actually that it is now in 2022. and how do we trust the Government to have any intention of doing anything seriously in this matter if it took more than three years for these directives to be rewritten or implemented into Croatian legislation. And now it is done from the hills, from the valley, without great consultation with the professional public and what is the worst law which unfortunately is not in the spirit of European practice, and I have talked to many these days will feel on their backs especially citizens and small entrepreneurs. So, as always, those who are the most unprotected. We have witnessed through history, especially in the last 30 years, numerous corruption affairs, numerous bankruptcys, the withdrawal of bankruptcy processes, the sale of state property, the simple destruction of Croatia's state that has not been sanctioned in any way. A major role in this, as my predecessors said, was also played by bankruptcy managers and inability or simply the inability of the country to regulate this issue, but now that the law is finally coming to the agenda, he is carrying with him a bunch of problems. One of them is what I will particularly concentrate on is the bankruptcy of consumers or the bankruptcy of citizens, that is what is in particular focus. So, apart from reducing this good behavior from the three so far, from five to three years to consumers, so citizens are just beginning to be uncertain because their fate is being shifted to a municipal court that actually has no experience in insolvency proceedings, and thus the procedure for citizens is becoming practically a major experiment. And we are witnessing what the experiment means to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to this government. We have two years since the earthquake in Zagreb without any renovated roof, without any scraps that have been rescheduled in Markushevec. For a year and a half, a year and a few days since the earthquake in Banja, people still sleep in containers. Unfortunately, their families are well-moved and displaced, and this shows the complete dysfunction of the state. So this government has taught us that their expensive experiments are actually paid by citizens. What you need to know well is that it takes a lot of time for someone to become a good judge in bankruptcy law, because it's a little multidisciplinary, looking for a foothold in material and procedural law, and in a number of other laws like the Laws on Mandatory Relations. Another important issue is the issue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. When it comes to Croatia, unfortunately, it has not decided to follow the practices of the most advanced European countries. Thus, there is no specific procedure defined here, but only foresees that Article 52 of the new paragraph 5 will lead to special care in the establishment of groups of courts on the protection of vulnerable creditors such as small suppliers. So nothing, a blank, nothing without any procedure, no serious intention of protecting them. And these most vulnerable little believers are, in fact, the most vulnerable because because of their business that is simply small in scope does not have legal service, often they cannot react without spot, and that is why they are often the last in line to charge. So they're fine with fees when there's no more property. I would remind you that the economies of modern European countries are now resting on small and medium-sized enterprises because these small and medium-sized enterprises are the cornerstone of resilience. These are the economies of Italy, Germany, France, in fact the most developed European countries in which we would like to be. Not to mention another major problem, it also refers to international entities. This law does not well determine their position and insurance of demand which may result in fewer foreign investments. And while Croatia as the poorest EU member in Bulgaria, even Romania has reached for GDP, should simply be interested in attracting foreign investment. I don't think it goes into my head that especially when foreign investments are involved, it can't be accounted for. While some already operating in Croatia, some foreign trade chains, foreign lobbys are in a particularly privileged position. I'll talk about it later. As in the first reading, there is a huge discrepancy of the bankruptcy plan and the pre-banking process, and the professional public has many objections to the position of the various creditors. But I will now shift my focus to consumer bankruptcy, because here last night, unfortunately, we are under cover of the night, and this is one of the most important topics in Croatia under galloping inflation, we could listen to a report on consumer protection which essentially acknowledged that consumer protection in Croatia is still at extremely low levels. It is differentiated, scattered, in a lot of small initiatives and projects. There was just a little ministry, a little waste, a little protection of the water economy. This looked like a dump of everything and everything without any central point of consumer protection as if it had been made from the hills, from the valley and as if everything needed and everything that should not be in that report had been inserted into it. The question is, why doesn't the state protect the citizens? Why doesn't the state protect the most vulnerable consumers? Why is our country unable to establish order and control the extra profits foreign traders make in Croatia? The question is why. The question is why and the question is, are consumers protected? Whether consumers are protected if they are prices, I also talked about it in the introduction of an identical product in Zagreb and Slavonia higher on the shelf in Zagreb. Are they protected? This country doesn't control it. You have identical products that are 30% cheaper in Germany than in Croatia, and the state doesn't control it either. You have a margin on oil derivatives, for example, which is now at two kuna levels, and oil is cheaper than in 2009, 2008. At that time, the margin from foreign companies was at 50 lip levels. So the state tolerates the duopol two companies that actually impose huge prices of gasoline, thus regulating the market, imposing that price on gasoline, and now it's almost 13 kuna. Among other things, that's why he collects everything. How can the state control when prices of certain food products add up to 150%? So traders, under the exception of inflation, collect everything alive. The State does not, unfortunately, prevent this, but announces some measures such as reducing VAT on certain food products. Gentlemen, we've had this before! It didn't get any effect at all. The lack of that tax that the state took didn't end up in citizens' pockets, ended up in the pockets of foreign trade chains. And my question is how the state can't control foreign trade chains or maybe it's on purpose. Maybe that's how it simply encourages foreign owners to make extra profits here. Just look at the banks and their interest rates. So, because of the crisis, if because of anything else, then because of the interest rate crisis this year will grow. What is the state doing in this matter to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? We haven't heard anything about that. So the problems in our country are growing every day. Citizens are unprotected, all of us are less, people are living harder, in the last 10 years 400,000 people have left our country. Over a million people are on the verge of poverty. With Bulgaria, Croatia is the last, or poorest member of the EU, and corruption has gripped all the pores of our society. Therefore, in order to start Croatia, it is simply necessary to eradicate corruption and return the centre of political decision-making to the Croatian Parliament, which unfortunately is not today. It's all up to the government. The Parliament has turned into a handlifting service for the ruling. The government behaves as they will, doesn't account for it, because these huge arrests because the ministers simply raped themselves, do what they want, and that's something that's not good for our country. Croatia should be the leader in some sense and technological development, live in harmony with its environment and exploit its natural potential. His sun, his sea, his woods, his water, his oil, his natural gas, but most importantly, we're on our own. To respect others, but not to deliver the country with foreign interests because Croatia must be its own. This government, unfortunately, does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94856	We are going to the fourth debate of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94857	Good afternoon. So we pointed to some problems already in the first reading that unfortunately were not removed even in these technical matters. For example, we warned that when it is said here to decide something about workers, they decide something to add what workers or the working council, and that is not what it is, it is not included. Article 66, which adds paragraph 6, states that if restructuring plans provide for measures that lead to a change in the organisation of work or contract for working with workers, the measures shall be subject to the approval of workers. There is a clear intensity meaning that it was going to adapt to a directive that puts a lot of emphasis on workers in the process of restructuring or recovery, but here even our observation that it would be good to define which workers, that it is a working council which is also in accordance with the Labour Act, I don't know why I have to admit it isn't, is not included in this, in this second reading means changes. But what we have first stressed and what is proof that unfortunately these bases, that these changes are a basis for further carelessness, total care for workers in the bankruptcy process is a fundamental thing, which is that this law does not change the article that would allow workers to be higher in the order of the collection of their claims that represent actually hard-earned wages. When I asked the Secretary of State here why Article 254 paragraph 3 and paragraph 2 had not been amended, which would have defined that at this initial stage it meant that instead of 5%, a distinction law was accepted 15% means that workers would be allowed to charge at least to some extent, then the answer was that it would be possible for workers to receive health care and pension, pension. I think it's some right that we should all have regardless of whether we're busy or not, but it's obvious that that doesn't even mean anymore, but health care is considered a privilege, and I'm afraid it's going to get worse and worse at least while these governments are. So our proposal went to amend Article 254 of paragraphs 2 and 3 where it should increase the extent of the funds that at the very beginning of the bankruptcy are determined as these costs of cashing in the case of a separate right which is now only 5%. And it should be at least 15%. The State Secretary also replied that he would deal more with this law if it was made possible for the control of bankruptcy managers, to their quality, but it always comes down to education, education instead of things that are fundamental. And that's that the bankruptcy managers, when they come into the company to conduct bankruptcy, are regularly charged, are making good money, are earning from, means really dramatic bankruptcy situations, that the city in which the company is neatly charged the communal fee, and there's no saying not to charge the utility fee, but the workers who have the meaning of their claims, and their claims are their salaries that they did and they didn't earn, they're not put on that, so the first place to charge is that they're defaulting if you've done some work that you have to pay you, that there's no but maybe. So it's known that no bankruptcy claims are charged, that workers are left without their hard-earned salaries and things are going to get worse. So Kamenskog workers only 15% of the claims charged, we had the situation so that the owner of Robert Ježić means to place it means to bring his company into a situation that workers can't be charged so that it means real estate puts in, borrowing on the property. So all the time since the sale of the debtor's assets, the bankruptcy managers are settling down, the municipal fee is being settled, but the workers are not being settled. And that should have changed these changes and additions, especially if we have a situation in which we're going to have two kinds of bankruptcys of the last gigans, like the 3rd of May that is on their knees and where the cancellations are again announced and 20 workers have already been fired, and there will be many more of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who, anyway, barely survive. So every year one 16% open, new companies close. In 5 years 51% of newly opened companies will be closed. So it's statistics that are even statistics from 2015 to 2019, and now things are sure to get worse. Let's say from 2015 to '19. Of the 14,000 start-ups, 7,000 of them were shut down, considering the Covid crisis, given geopolitical relations, we can expect things to get worse today. What is a pity that, in fact, in this legislative proposal, it was really going to be in line with the insolvency directive, the discharge of debt, the restructuring of insolvency, which puts a great deal of emphasis on workers, so you have an art. 10 of this Directive, which states that adequate participation of workers should be ensured, as provided for by Union and national law. 23rd century C.E. The Directive says that in order to increase support for workers and their representatives, Member States should ensure that workers are given access to relevant and updated information on the availability of early warning tools and should also be able to support workers' representatives in assessing the economic situation of debtors. This is crucial, so that workers are also allowed to participate in the economic assessment of debtors, and not that there are therefore situations where the owner himself ensures that there is no collection of these claims by putting mortgages on the property. What is also, here in that directive was put in place as a rule is art. 44 which says that categories of creditors are formed and that particularly vulnerable have an advantage, says Member States should also be able to lay down specific rules that support the formation of categories in which non-classified or otherwise particularly vulnerable creditors, such as workers or small suppliers, would benefit from such category formation. So, although some things, we have to admit, exist now in the law, but they don't actually apply and workers remain truly unprotected. This Law has also made a better decision to protect only small suppliers, not to mention workers, we can say that the meaning of those instructions that we received in the directive was somewhat good and so here, we can also commend something in this Law, which is a change of art. 66 where the item is added, where it is said that workers have the right to collective bargaining and industrial action in pre-profit proceedings, which is particularly important because workers are practically, industrial actions, meaning strike, legislation, so we can say, forbidden. It is, not an exaggeration if we have in mind the assessment of the judgment somewhere there since 2018, which has been criminalised by many strikes, and the most famous is the one in Croatia Airlines and the strike of SDF Harvesters in County where the literal strike means the courts have banned. Such practices, therefore, where workers must justify their right to strike, and the employer has no reason to defend himself and can use everything against workers, so it is also used to exclude workers in the strike manipulation of the concept of lock-out, meaning also other options set out in the Labour Act, among other things. But here it was important to apply, what these directives mention, and that is to protect workers much more and that is completely meaning here, disabled and other, to involve workers in the procedure itself and to keep workers constantly informed. And as the workers were informed, it was best seen in the situation of the Orjava, where the workers were here, stood at 30 degrees in Mark's square and waited for Minister Horvat, to explain to them what would be with them so that he would, in a cynical manner, answer them when he came to them and practically didn't tell them anything. This law, I hope, changes that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94858	5th debate, Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia, respected colleague Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94859	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So when we talk about the application of the provisions of the current bankruptcy law, we can say that during a certain period of application, however, a sort of order was introduced by eradicating almost non-existent companies, which had been reduced to certain pre-determined manipulations, but experts immediately pointed out, so after its adoption of certain potential weaknesses. Legal experts who have analysed the current law have proposed changes that could prevent new problems, including injustices. I'd like to set aside some of the advantages of the current bankruptcy law. For example, debtors can no longer abuse pre-prices, no more agony with too long blocks, many companies whose debt has not been charged, however, there are shortcomings that I am not entirely sure will improve. So, among other things, it's a limit to 4 auctions and a limit to the value of the assets. Without assessing the property of the witches, there's no auction. FINA does not send information to the court and to the bankruptcy manager on auctions, the reduction of prices by 25% in the next auction in too many bankruptcy cases, which then leads excessively to bankruptcy, the shortened procedure due to unpreparedness often causes liquidation proceedings, the company in bankruptcy retains old OIB, which is why it can be blocked, there is no centralised public announcement about the launch of bankruptcy, the possibility of rejecting the bankruptcy manager to take over the case without consequences, etc., but we still have certain fictitious bankruptcys in order to benefit certain groups, which usually goes to the harm of the workers themselves. Then how could we improve the amendment and addition of the bankruptcy law that we have on the agenda today? For example, it was possible to include a requirement for courts to be obliged to send from land books to a bankruptcy judge data on the property of a creditor, then to provide to bankruptcy companies only to the address of the creditor, to take existing bank valuations as an alternative solution, if the cost of an expert cannot be paid. Then, that judges choose their own bankruptcy managers who can refuse only a few procedures. The Ministry of Justice and Administration has prepared for us these changes to the bankruptcy law, which would better define among other things the profession of the bankruptcy manager. It doesn't matter, but it doesn't matter. Only lawyers and economists and those who have at least three years of work and experience in the profession could have access to the expert exam for the bankruptcy manager. It has been shown that these professions provide the best basis for doing the job. Furthermore, this proposal would leave system A and B of the list of bankruptcy managers and the current system of allocation of cases. Instead of A and B lists, bankruptcy managers would be included in the list of highly qualified bankruptcy managers and the list of qualified bankruptcy managers. Only those persons who are at least seven years on the list of bankruptcy managers who have at least two bankruptcy proceedings relating to medium and large entrepreneurs could enter the category of highly qualified bankruptcy managers. But if they hadn't shut them down and disabled their every further effort, they'd have successfully completed it by confirming the bankruptcy plan. Important news also concerns the protection of workers in the bankruptcy process. In the future, the bankruptcy manager would be obliged to notify HZZO on time of bankruptcy, thereby regulating the exercise of the rights of healthcare workers. Workers who would have found themselves sick during bankruptcy should have been informed that their employment relationship with the date of erasure of the company in the court register had ceased. The interventions in the Banking Law should solve another major problem in which workers would find themselves because their company ended up in bankruptcy. It is the situation in which workers pay their gross salary after the bankruptcy procedure is completed. They get the money, but it remains that empty walk, or period of two or five years, depending on how long the bankruptcy took, during which their taxes and contributions were not paid. According to this proposal, the State Attorney's Office would be empowered to report the claims of workers and to represent them in a bankruptcy procedure based on budget searches, institutions or funds in the amount of the total wage or salary compensation which may be commended in this case. As the main objective of amending and supplementing the provisions that should allow sustainable businesses and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to have access to effective national preventive restructuring frameworks that enable them to continue their work. The need for amending and supplementing the law as argued by the applicant stems from the need for a more effective solution to the problem of insolvency of business entities as a result of the occurrence of special circumstances in order to declare the outbreak of covid-19 disease caused by the virus. These particular circumstances have highlighted the urgent need to ensure further implementation of the same and in such demanding new circumstances with all participants of the bankruptcy procedure as far as possible. However, the proposed amendments and additions are intended to be applicable and useful after the end of those specific circumstances. Insolvency is a fact of life in the world of a dynamic and modern economy of about half the entrepreneurs operate for less than five years, and around every year nearly 200,000 across the EU face insolvency and millions of people remain unemployed. This means that a significant number of entrepreneurs in the EU fail every day, but that number is on the rise, especially in Croatia itself. So the insolvency rate has doubled since the beginning of the covid crisis. Although the pre-profit and bankruptcy legislative framework has remained significantly improved in Croatia over the past few years among the participants of these proceedings, the opinion remains that the current bankruptcy system is still burdened with unnecessary formalities and that the bankruptcy process can take quite a long time to prevent effective restructuring of sustainable officials and the preservation of already created values. The Proposer argues that these changes will improve the existing legal framework for bankruptcy managers in such a way as to establish a more restrictive entry into the profession, strengthen the role of the initial but continuous professional training, redefine the system A and B lists, the system of allocation of objects, the system of supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, and strengthen the system of professional responsibility of the bankruptcy managers themselves. An additional set of data collection system will be developed, i.e. on the average cost of each type of procedure, the average recovery rates for insured and unsecured creditors, the number of entrepreneurs after the procedure which led to the discharge of the debt of insolvent entrepreneurs started a new job and the number of related jobs related to restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. We can support the development of early warning mechanisms and tools to signal debtors in financial problems that it is necessary to act without delay in order to avoid bankruptcy, and in time to access the restructuring of business that is in difficulty. The proposal is aimed at ensuring that sustainable business entities and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties have access to a more effective national framework for preventive restructuring that will enable them to continue their work as well as improve the position of workers in bankruptcy proceedings, as it will, among other things, ensure that the bankruptcy manager, i.e. the court, at the time of notification of bankruptcy, and that the rights of health insurance workers would not be questioned. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the legislation to lay down solutions that will balance the existing system of pre-banking and bankruptcy, and to further improve it by respecting all needs for the bankruptcy and pre-availability process to be implemented quickly, efficiently and economically, and for sustainable businesses and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to have access to effective national frameworks for preventive restructuring enabling them to continue their work, but also to retain jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94860	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP and the Honorable Representative Michel Jaksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94861	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to all. Since we have already had a debate on this set of laws and some things have been further changed since the first reading, I must say that we welcome these steps and efforts made between these two readings. But at the very beginning of its debate, it would really make one very short retrospective of what we have so far had and in its bankruptcy laws and in the implementation of the bankruptcy itself and in the pre-profit settlements because what I think every one of us, regardless of the political colors, will agree, is that bankruptcy in Croatia has never been brought to life amongst the citizens as something that is a chance for a new beginning and for the adoption of some justice where there is no economic continuation of business, but unfortunately the term of the bankruptcy mafia appeared, and for anyone who has looked at it on the side, and God did not give up, it ended up with the fact that the bankruptcy itself was most often delivered to those who ended up in bankruptcy, whether in the pre-trial settlement. And it's certainly in that context, and in this atmosphere, it's not easy to make changes, it's not easy to take steps because we have a few relatively frigid cases where there's a bankruptcy mafia, where there are serious doubts about both judges and those who run bankruptcy and of course whenever you say we're going to change something, let's do better, the question is how many people are willing to believe it, and also to support that path. But with what we are doing today, we can still agree that we have a trend back in 5, 6, 7 years that with each of these changes we can say that we are doing something new and doing something better, to raise this one protection factor, and therefore we hope that we can raise the confidence factor of our bankruptcy laws. Because what is certain is that Croatia has its structural problems in the economy for many years. Some would say 30, some would say let's connect it to communism, so some things have become too many, but definitely these structural problems exist as they are and surely we haven't done enough in independence itself, or in the part where we have become a full member of the EU so that we can start these structural reforms and begin to change the structure of our economy and work together in a different, more competitive way. It is also certain that this very structure of the economy has shown us in every major European and world crisis how fragile our economy is and how easily some trends in our environment, thanks to our structure, are much easier to pour into our economy, by our workers, and how much stronger we end up in this crisis than some more developed economies that are therefore more resilient and otherwise structured for such situations. We are now in a crisis moment because of a crown that has been going on for two years. There has been an inflation and price growth situation that has already spread over our economy, and these days we are witnessing a new moment concerning war in Ukraine and Russian aggression where there is unfortunately room for further impact on our economy and our economic operators. Why did I say all this? Because in bankruptcy, too, we should ask ourselves whether this will be enough in the next period, given that we can go from price increases to insolvency increases, to whether or not entities who will either fire people or will not be able to serve their obligations might occur and simply ask ourselves whether this set of bankruptcy laws that are going to change will be enough for potential lateral shocks that will definitely be. What I can say in front of the SDP Club is that we believe that in the coming time we will have to lead a much more proactive policy of economic reform. The bankruptcy is a very important thing because returning to the beginning of the debate is not, not every bankruptcy must be a fraud, not every bankruptcy must be an agenda that someone has drawn out money and escaped but bankruptcy can sometimes be an opportunity where workers can be protected, where believers can be protected and where they can simply enable further economic action. And we simply think that, unfortunately in the future, we will have to deal more seriously with this particular issue, precisely with these sets of laws, and figure out what it is in the bankruptcy law that is the category that is legal and which, of course, we all want to satisfy, but which category in future and current changes of bankruptcy laws will be the economic one and contribute to making our economies even stronger, even more stable on the well-being of both our workers and our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94862	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Nikola Mažar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94863	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, distinguished state secretaries on behalf of the promoters, as we could hear in the introduction as well as in the debates on the presentation of club positions today are two final proposals of the Bank's Bank and the bankruptcy of consumers who implement the directive or introduce measures relating to restructuring, insolvency and discharge of debt. However, in addition to the implementation of the directive itself, we can see that these amendments and amendments to the law go into one broader and larger changes and complement both bankruptcy law and pre-banking procedure. And what we, above all, welcome in the HDZ Club, and therefore consider all these changes that go both in the direction of helping our entrepreneurs and in the direction of helping the entire economy, but also in the direction of helping our citizens. What is certainly good and what will prove to be one of the good newspapers that is being introduced is therefore an early warning of the existence of circumstances that could lead to a threatening inability to pay. It is also required to regulate the early warning procedure for the negative development of the balance of payments in order for the debtor to react and take the necessary actions in time to avoid the result of incompetence to pay. We have also heard that between the first and second readings in the Assembly there have been changes which, by the proposal of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, relate to art. 4 i.e. Art. 7a The bankruptcy law added to new chapter 6 which stipulates that the ministry responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts will ensure the establishment of an early warning system for small economy entities. This is certainly something that will, not only help legal persons and entrepreneurs, where competent authorities see difficulties in business in time and provide them with the possibility of consulting on ways of solving the underlying financial difficulties, but will certainly change their opinion on the concepts of pre-demands and bankruptcys which, in our citizens, mention very negative emotions and perceptions of the failure of the company, the failure of entrepreneurs, the loss of jobs and everything that was closely linked to the bankruptcy itself, the advances, but also with the time when they were moving, or with its late opening, when there was no more property in a commercial society, or when the debts had already reached such amounts that it was not possible to cover them with the remaining assets of society. Also, according to the proposed amendments and additions, the bankruptcy law would distinguish two situations, acceptance of the plan by the creditors and confirmation of the plan by the court. These changes would give the court much greater autonomy when deciding to confirm the plan. The court would no longer be bound by the credentials' decision to accept the plan but could decide on its own whether the adopted plan will confirm it. These amendments to the Law further regulate issues related to the appointment of bankruptcy managers and the way in which they are assigned. A special list of bankruptcy managers is introduced, which would be called a list of highly qualified bankruptcy managers and qualified bankruptcy managers. This redefines the system of A and B lists and the system of allocations to bankruptcy managers in such a way that creditors who are on the list A of bankruptcy managers for at least 7 years, who have been appointed in 2 bankruptcy proceedings in which creditors are medium or large entrepreneurs within the meaning of the Accounting Act and have completed at least 2 bankruptcy proceedings by confirming the bankruptcy plan. This will allow for better quality implementation of bankruptcy procedures, improve the system of allocations and further professionalise the role of bankruptcy managers, which is extremely important because it is those who are actually the center of bankruptcy proceedings, those who operate, who monitor everything that happens and who implement it. Schoolly on the professionalized role of bankruptcy managers, they will also insist on their expertise and through changes to the conditions for passing an expert exam. According to the proposed amendment and supplementation of the law, only persons who have completed a degree in legal or economic profession and who have at least 3 years of working experience in the legal or economic profession could be approached by a professional examination. The pre-trial procedure also amends the provisions relating to the vote on the restructuring plan, i.e. if the creditors do not know by the start of the voting hearing whether or not they have voted in favour of or against the restructuring plan, or cannot be clearly determined from their statement as they voted, they will be considered to have voted in favour of the plan. So far, it has been considered that there has been opposition to the restructuring plan, thus preventing the implementation of the plan and increasing the possibility of going to bankruptcy companies. These amendments and additions will also ensure greater protection of the rights of workers whose companies are bankrupt. Namely, the bankruptcy managers or the court will be obliged to notify HZZO of bankruptcy in time, thus ensuring the right of all health insurance workers. In addition, the State Election Commission will be authorised to declare the demand of workers and represent them in a bankruptcy procedure based on budget searches, institutions or funds, thus ensuring that gross salaries of workers are settled if there are sufficient funds in the bankruptcy table, even if the bankruptcy manager and workers have not reported demand from the base of pay in the bankruptcy procedure. Insolvent or over-indebted entrepreneurs will be allowed to continue their business through debt waiver. These measures will reduce the negative attitude towards bankruptcy, improve the general business environment, encourage sustainable entrepreneurs to restructure at an early stage and allow business to continue. The proposed changes and additions to the Consumer Bank Law will reduce the time of consumer behaviour checks from 5 to 3 years. In addition, provisions on the call of citizens or consumers meeting the conditions for consumer bankruptcy are further regulated, and these proposed amendments will deliver calls to citizens and consumers within 30 days of the date of adoption of a solution to reject the proposal for the implementation of the simple process of consumer bankruptcy. Further regulation of the delivery of calls to citizens wants to enable them to resolve their financial problems more easily and faster. Also, the proposed legal changes to the conditions for the implementation of regular consumer bankruptcy are reduced from the current 30 thousand kuna to 20 thousand kuna in order to allow all insolvency consumers to conduct a simple or regular process of consumer bankruptcy. The amendments and additions to those proposed laws will ensure better quality implementation of pre-banking procedures, create a legal framework for the establishment of an effective early warning system, ensure greater protection of bankruptcy workers' rights, and enable consumers to deal with financial problems or debt more quickly. We also welcome and support the changes that have been accepted and implemented between the first and second readings in HS, which are further strengthened by the proposed amendments and complements and are going towards a wider circle of consumers to which new more favourable provisions will apply, and which will prevent delays in the conduct of proceedings in all bankruptcy and pre-banking cases, and for all of the above reasons, the HDZ Club will support the proposed Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Law and the Consumer Banks Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94864	On behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94865	Chairman of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. There are two fundamental responsibilities for each government in managing its country. I'm going to try to show both of you right through the amendments and additions to this law. So the first concern is that the legal order and the political system function in orderly, that democracy is as it is written in the constitution and the laws are real, not fictitious and fictitious. Unfortunately, we have made our procedural provisions of the HS Rules of Procedure thick, thick, and thus HS no longer achieves the role that a parliament should play in democratic societies. In fact, in the case of changes and additions, we can only discuss within the context of the content defined by these amendments and amendments, and nothing beyond and beyond. So when we try to point out that the essence is somewhere else, that the legal problem, the fundamental legal problem of changes and additions is completely intact we don't actually have the tools to make our laws better. In this part of our democracy and our legal and political system have made a huge appointment because even if we were to submit changes and additions to which we would relatively improve the right state of affairs very probably all the opposition amendments would be rejected, so we do not have a real democracy in which to discuss quality laws rather than have the dictatorship of the majority, so this is a fundamental problem. Another problem, especially the HDZ rule of the past 30 years. is the country's impact on the economy. The bankruptcy law is one of the best examples of how the Republic of Croatia has damaged citizens' interests as well as the interests of entrepreneurs. Today, several times, and even by the HDZ Representatives Club, something is said that is actually true, and that is that the centre of the bankruptcy law is bankrupt managers. It is precisely in this law that amendments and additions are least spoken of in this law. Bank managers in the Republic of Croatia actually no one controls, not essentially, not essentially. I will try several examples that I know from practice in bankruptcy proceedings that unfortunately I have had the opportunity to observe what I have seen. So, several MPs were talking today about us in Croatia having a bankruptcy mafia. Yeah, we got her. Does the judiciary deal with it? He doesn't. And I'm telling you that the problem is actually much bigger, and it's that a lot of bad actions that on a daily basis are carried out by more or less all bankruptcy managers are not at all criminal but is something that is woven into the very core itself, in the very core, in the very structure of the skeleton of the rule of bankruptcy law. For example. I had a situation in which we had a successful company dealing with heavy metallurgy, so it actually produced parts for hydrothermia and built hydroelectricity throughout Europe until the moment the owner and director unfortunately suffered a severe stroke and was disabled in performing their functions, in fact the whole of the company was based on his knowledge and on his abilities. At that point, the state appointed a temporary administration in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act, a lawyer who unfortunately knew nothing about heavy metallurgy. It was not able to manage a company whose head had been placed on it, the company quickly entered into the bankruptcy process, and then the bankruptcy manager came. In the meantime, the company accumulated debts, as usual, the bankruptcy manager hired judicial experts to assess the value of machinery and equipment and this assessment was thick, thick, thick, thick below the market value of each individual machine and all other materials used in the production. So literally overnight is one company that could actually be saved under cover and under State patronage deleted from the list of existence. When a man who had actually learned to talk again for several years and learnt to walk again and recovered he saw that his once very powerful and successful companies were simply gone, and then he went to see and check what had happened, so he saw how the bankruptcy was treated, and then he saw how his bankruptcy was assessed and began to file criminal charges, one after the other, one after the other, one after the other. They considered him crazy, and what he was saying was actually true, which is that all of the wires, of the machines, of whatever you want, whatever was found, and even of the vehicle, were estimated to be invaluable because that's what the accounting items say, and then in the bankruptcy process, the values of everything the company had at that time, which the bankruptcy manager sold and sold out, I say with the opinion and with the protection of the authorised court evaluator. Of course the criminal charges were rejected because everything that was done was carried out in accordance with the law, in accordance with the law, and where is that bankruptcy mafia we're talking about? So here, here, in the provisions of the law nothing has changed, and many companies, it seems to me that colleague Vuciilovic said that we had 14,000 total bankruptcy proceedings, that the bankruptcy mass was 112 billion kuna, that the bankruptcy managers of them were 200-thousand, watch out for 200-thousands of them charged their costs of about 6 billion kuna. You know what the biggest paradox is? What we have is a situation where, for example, the deputy municipal chief of a municipality of 1,000 residents is asked to submit an property card and to control the property from that property card. No one's ever asked anyone to file any property card, no one in the system has come up with it, so isn't that nakaradous, why isn't that being discussed? We've got 50 bankruptcy judges, only 50, so judges can file property cards. Who? The DSV that has two parliamentary deputies sitting in. With all due respect, parliamentarians have no competence to verify the data from the property cards and therefore we have, and neither the DIP as a body is a body that performs these activities systematically and properly. It is said to establish a system when conditions are met. When's that gonna be? It doesn't exist. If it were just to compare which judge is working with which bankruptcy manager we would quickly get to who's in contact with, but the state should have mechanisms for that, it should have tools and should have trained people who know where corruption and crime are looking at at all. No, there's no server of two three broken judges, there's a lot more of them, but we don't create conditions for them to find themselves and to isolate themselves from the system and move away. The most we could think of is that in these changes and additions, we have now installed that ethical codes will be passed on to bankruptcy managers, so that applications against bankruptcy managers will be submitted to the Ministry of Justice in the first degree, and then for the appeal to some ethical committee that the minister will appoint. This is not control, we will not make any progress, and any poor work of a bankruptcy manager will not achieve this basic purpose that makes the law possible. It is said to enable sustainable businesses and entrepreneurs to preventively restructure their companies to allow them to continue their work. So give me a list of these 14,000 companies that went through bankruptcy proceedings that we successfully restructured, especially under the baton of bankruptcy managers? The bankruptcy managers have one single goal, and this is to sell out the assets of the Buddha why, very often, under the table with some price arrangements, they build up their costs because we designed the rules so that their work and their compensation are paid, so it is not a problem for individuals, it is a problem of a system that can only be solved, but for starters so that the law is tailored not according to the directives, it is an honor to the directives, but we need to do an analysis of what our problems result from and find an answer to these problems and then install them and add to what the Directive requires of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94866	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, and the honourable representative Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94867	Thank you. Here I am today going to dedicate this debate to the Consumer Personal Bank Act, which is the part that we first talked about when it was in the first reading, and we actually wanted to propose here some models that precede the personal bankruptcy of consumers, which could effectively affect the reduction of the over-indebtedness of citizens and households in Croatia. In fact, since we are very concerned with this whole issue of over-indebted debt and sales of citizens, we have seen, of course, practices in other countries and one of the really good practices of reducing household debt has been developed in France in the last 10 years. have recorded a serious trend in household over-indebtedness, for example in 2011, since 2011. To date, the number of over-indebted households has literally halved, literally halved. And they attribute it precisely to the result of this pro-active policy, prevention and combating over-indebtedness they have been carrying out not only in those last 10 years. It's been since the late '80s and their fight against the overindulgence of households except for yesterday's emphasis on education, etc. in consumer protection, I guess it's clear to all of us here that of course we need financial literacy, that of course we should do education, but if we recommend that education is the only mechanism against over-indebtedness, we're actually telling people that you're guilty because you didn't know it, and that's not because very often households come into over-indebted situations because of some extraordinary events that no one could have predicted. There's been an accident, you stay disabled after that accident, you lose your job, and you can't pay off the loan, you lose your job, you can't pay off the loan. Don't let God get sick, etc. So these are some situations that happen to people and for which we don't have these mechanisms that precede this personal bankruptcy. You have seen already in the first debate, i.e. in the first reading, a number of clubs pointed out that in fact this mechanism is very little used, very little is used. And on the other hand, we have a huge number of over-indebted households. And that is why we believe that what France has introduced is something that could be effective for Croatia as well. Therefore, they allowed the Law on Prevention, the resolution of difficulties related to the over-indebtedness of individuals and families of the procedure for resolving and the situation managed by the state bank of Bank de France and any citizen in the over-indebted situation may submit his file on the over-indebtedness of any branch of that bank which is subsequently in charge of the management of the entire procedure. As soon as the file is submitted, so as soon as the file is submitted and someone declares that in a situation of over-indebtedness they have certain rights and these rights are to suspend all accounts both in connection and on salaries. The Committee for Excessive Debt which therefore analyses the file may request the judge to suspend the process of decommissioning, so until the status of over-indebtedness has been established. The bank has an obligation, so the bank of that citizen in which he previously had an account, doesn't have to be Bank de France has an obligation to keep his account open. So there's no closing of accounts, no blocking of accounts because the goal is actually to keep the citizen economically, financially functional. Compensation fees for illegal overruns, charge problems and similar incidents are limited at that time. So the bank also stops charging them, and even a citizen himself must suspend payment of debts until a real state of debt is established. So what the commission determines is actually two states. Is the person irrevocably over-indebted, so whether it's a condition where he really won't be able to repay those debts at all. In that case, therefore, if the situation is irrevocably threatened, they may decide to delete the debt by a procedure they call a personal recovery procedure that may be with this consumer bankruptcy or without consumer bankruptcy procedures. That depends again on the circumstances, actually the possibility of paying off part of the debt. However, if it is not an irrevocable over-indebted person, it is found that the person has some current problems, but can be overcome in that case, so the commission offers different possibilities to settle the debt to the moratorium if it is a temporary situation such as unemployment, a debt moratorium. A reprogramming debt, reducing rates or selling parts of assets where they jointly analyse this property with themselves, as is actually done in consumer bankruptcy. However, the important thing when the over-indebted debt of any kind is determined at that time interest on debt ceases to flow. It means that when it is determined that a person is moving either in payment or moving into debt depletion because it is a non-refundability, then the rate of interest is stopped at that point. I think it's an extremely important moment because exactly the fact that when people get into any process of debt recovery, if they still have interest very often, it's precisely that they get into a spiral of actually debt from which it's very, very difficult to get out. Of course, this whole debt-recovery package is complemented by prevention and they have developed a public service to support households in managing the home budget. Therefore, direct households can receive technical assistance in managing their budget through the Advisory Centre for the budget of both associations and bodies of local authorities. So, this is similar to something that we, too, could, through the consumer protection companies that we have an obligation to finance consumer and local authorities and local centres. In order to prevent certain types of over-indebtedness, they have also served the requirements on the transparency of financial institutions. It's something where we've made progress, so we can't say that nothing has happened in the last ten years. Indeed today, data when you go to a bank must be much more transparent and much better presented to the client himself. The problem, however, is that we regulated it for banks, i.e. credit institutions, and they are ok. regulated and they really must now follow and follow certain rules of transparency. However, a whole second set of those who actually very often generate over-indebted citizens do not have the same rules. And citizens in these relationships don't really know what's waiting for them, and the biggest problem is that when there's a debt default, when a person can't pay if there's a debt sale to the claims agency at that point, a citizen can't really get an insight into the structure of his debt anymore. And that's a big problem. If you no longer have insight into the structure of your debt what is paid, what is not, what is the principal, what is interest and especially if there are completely illegal credits to the principal and then a new rate of interest to that amount then actually a citizen can no longer help himself. And that's a situation where the state actually had a long time ago, before the situation came to an end. In that sense, we believe that Croatia would be a good way to develop precisely these and preventive mechanisms, but also to develop mechanisms of intervention before bankruptcy occurs, so that personal bankruptcy is one of these 7-8 categories that occur in case over-indebtedness is such that it is irreversible, but very often it is not irrevocable but by prolonging that situation it becomes irreversible because we have not responded in time. Here's what I'm hoping we've managed to bring this up to debate and will be willing to make such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94868	We would now move on to an individual debate, so the first one will speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94869	Dear Vice President, I would like to thank you, dear secretary, colleague and colleague. Here's just a few notes, maybe. I don't think we should talk much about the laws ourselves, given that what you've copied from the directive is the same, but we must bear in mind that the directive and the regulation are not the same. So we've actually got here with a directive one way, we've got what we need to achieve, and since we aim to achieve what's really in the directive and I think we should also consider our situation, our business conditions, our living conditions, and that we should add some other things that are extremely important here. Now I'm not going to talk about some articles we should add. There a colleague mentioned earlier we have problems with whether someone will enter into a personal bankruptcy or not, whether it will be counselling or be some other kind of help. We need to know first and foremost if we're talking about personal bankruptcy that it doesn't matter whether it's a personal bankruptcy or if there's a condition for personal bankruptcy because someone owes Telekom, it's due to the directors and the other donations he's got, and at the same time, he didn't care about it at all, or there's been a disaster or he's due, because he bought basic life supplies and because he was trying to feed his family. You know the conditions for us that people were getting fired overnight, that they woke up in the morning and had no job anymore, were in charge and credit, had obligations towards, according to gas suppliers, electricity, telecommunications services and everything else, and of course they were in trouble. I spoke here once about the person who entered, had to go to a professional pension, who had compensation for that pension of 1,300 kuna, the woman was paid minimum wage, and they had two children in college. How could they survive? He didn't even get a chance to work again, when we talked about this law we talked about that it was a big problem because it's not true that you can't work because if a man went into a professional retirement because he can do some other job where he doesn't need these conditions, but there's nothing to do and there's problems, we need to influence it, we need to look at the conditions here in Croatia. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to company bankruptcy in a Croatian way. Why did I ask the secretary before? There's a lot of bankruptcy that happened that they shouldn't have. Let me give you an example of how a large left-hand woman who had a value of about 112 million kunas went bankrupt, and her obligations were only 30 million kunas. Of course, the moment they took the mortgage loans, it was 1:3, right? It was signed on both sides. Not to forget to say that the area of that plant or latrine was about to spread to 60,000 m2 and that there were some 20 to 25,000 m2 of it under the roof. The moment when the creditors decided to launch bankruptcy for not these 30 million but for 2 million euros, it means approximately... There was about 15 million kuna, there was a bankruptcy manager and there was actually a disaster. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Suddenly the banks said look at what we signed 1:3, and we can't sell it at these prices, and then one part of the property sold not at 50% of the price but sold at 5% of the price. The sales contests were published in secret that no one knew there was a competition at all and the entire left was gone. And not only that, but since the owner guaranteed his personal property they sat down on his house, for which it was a mortgage of 60,000 euros, it was sold for 20,000 euros, so they sat down to another house because they still haven't settled down. Here, such laws are with us in Croatia and we need to prevent it, we need to prevent this kind of behavior in our laws and we need to introduce additional control that such things no longer happen. There, 400 people lost their jobs, 400 families lost their bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94870	We have several replicas, the first respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Pavić, in your debate, you pointed out two very important things. One is related to the application of the legal standards that come to us from the EU, which is the difference between the directive and the regulation. We often treat the directive as a regulation and just apply this copy paste technology not taking care of our specificities and that we need to achieve the goal, but we are not told how and then this goal should be adapted to our circumstances that are related to our economy and our conditions. And the other important thing that you've opened and I have to re-emphasis it's these fictitious bankruptcys. These are bankruptcys that didn't have to happen, which could have been prevented, and these unfortunately have progressed not only this case that you cited, and there's still one thing we have to add, and that's political personneling in our factories and companies that have been extremely expressed in the '90s. when local powers actually went bankrupt, both in losses and in ruin, driven by a number of companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94872	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94873	Yes, I did, and I mentioned exactly the regulation and the directive and the difference between the regulation and the directive because obviously we treat the same thing with the regulation and the directive. We must reflect the regulation almost entirely, so we must fully implement it in our laws, but we do not have to. The directive gives us direction to what we need to achieve, and then it is up to us to adapt our laws to achieving this goal. As for these fictitious bankruptcys, there's a lot of them. There's a lot of them, and I could count 10 now, and unfortunately, all those I know, who I know, are unfortunately the owners who died, they were left without everything, and they weren't guilty, that they were set up, that it was after the bankruptcy governor made a miracle. So when one plant worth Caricating 200,000 EUR is sold to you for 20,000 EUR and then it was announced that no one was interested in it. It's something scary. When someone sells you your personal house, the property you lived in instead of EUR 60,000 for EUR 20,000, says unfortunately here there were no stakeholders etc., etc., these are disasters. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94874	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94875	Dear counterpart Pavić, therefore, our rulings like to swear on transparency and all those in different executive positions, however, precisely on this topic that we are talking about today, we note that a lot is happening somewhere behind closed doors, and then the Croatian public from the media only hears about certain companies, especially public companies that we thought were very liquid, employ, make profits, suddenly we just hear bankruptcy happening. Do you think procedures, bankruptcy procedures in Croatia are transparent enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94876	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94877	Well I tried to answer that question actually through my debate when I said that I would talk a little bit about bankruptcy in Croatian way. The bankruptcy of the private companies that started, I will, I will mention only one company that went first. So it was among the first companies, private companies that went bankrupt where one of the co-owners ran out of kuna, and the other co-owner got everything for 15%. And bad courts, bad lawsuits against a bankruptcy manager, bad intervention in the Trade Court. Nothing, that family ran out of everything, no matter what, this other owner who ran out of nothing invested his private money there. So he didn't invest in profit money, he invested in private money, and he ran out of everything, but it all depends on who's in a position to decide, unfortunately. And there's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94878	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94879	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, we are now an EU member and should respect the EU's acquis, right. Now, we have a bankruptcy manager, we have a bankruptcy mass, we have, we have workers, and from this whole story, it's actually decided that bankruptcy managers are first charged for their work, and that all the others are looking for a certain amount of money that they don't have. Is there any model in which we're going to jump in and actually start from the ones that are most needed, which is to charge the workers and then charge the bankruptcy manager behind it, or possibly the state to secure a certain amount of money for the bankruptcy managers, without him touching the amount of money in the company that goes into bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94880	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94881	Thank you for asking the same question. I was just going to suggest, it would be fair and correct if all bankruptcy managers had the same salary. And that he doesn't really have any of what he's doing there in that company except that he gets pluses and if he successfully conducts a bankruptcy procedure that he can get the next case. And this doesn't make sense. They settle down, workers usually get nothing, the owner usually leaves absolutely nothing, and money is known to go away either to the bankruptcy manager or his friends. And that's how it is in 99% of cases. Unfortunately, I'm talking about these people who unfortunately made these bankruptcys in Croatian. There are also positive examples. There's say there's a Pevex, now Pevex was before the Pevex where the bankruptcy went successfully, the company still works, everyone's calmed down, everyone's been well gone except the owner who's here where he is and unfortunately, who's guilty,.../incomprehensible/... that we'll keep quiet in the courts, but the company kept working, the workers stayed in their jobs. That's what you're trying to do, to make sure the worker doesn't go. After that because of what it is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The company went bankrupt... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94882	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94883	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, we are unfortunately witnessing a number of bankruptcy proceedings both in recent and distant history. Unfortunately, those who have failed to finish because workers usually end up on the street, the property is sold out only the bankruptcy managers end up again after a while appointed as bankruptcy managers in some other firms, etc. Do you personally feel that any bankruptcy manager who has failed to restructure or save the company in some way can continue to retain his license or can be appointed ever again to any firm for the bankruptcy manager? How do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94884	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94885	If you ask for the attitude of me and our club I answer you immediately not because man is not capable. So if he destroyed one company, if he destroyed workers in that company, if he destroyed the owner of that company, he could not then be given a second chance to destroy another company. And besides, not only can he not be there but he should go to court and answer for it because if he was incompetent, why would he take the job he was incapacitated for? Where did he get the right to do that? When we're working on a big team if you don't contribute to some percentage we should contribute to, the team kicks you out because you're too much, not here to give the same people another chance to destroy another company and another company. And that's why I told the secretary I welcome that they have brought different conditions for a man to become a bankruptcy manager, but after that they are extremely important controls. I'm not going to tell you about other examples that we know of what happened from practice, I don't want to call anyone, but it's about having to put an end to it. Not to mention the simplest of these companies, not to mention the quick establishment of these companies, who founded them, how he founded them, why a natural person has property over 15 companies, but because he would cheat and steal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94886	Thank you very much. Next final, the next final on behalf of the HSS and RF Club will speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94887	Here's just for a little while to sum up those amendments we've submitted. So here it's been said more than once on our part that the biggest failure of these changes and additions, and that's somewhere the answer to that question that someone just asked us how we can ensure that workers are charged, means that workers get their salaries. I don't think it's a problem that I'm thinking about paying the restitution manager, I mean it's not, I don't think he's responsible, and we need to do something about what they're paying for, but the thing is that workers have to win means their own, their own, their part right now. Well, now that's what I mean missed in this law, it could really be solved with that added article so we put it in so under amendment 2 means that would mean changing an article. Paragraphs 2 and 3 which means that it is necessary to mean that there is a need to increase the scope of the funds that are determined as costs at the very beginning of the bankruptcy, they are called the cost of cashing-in of separate rights items. So these cashing-out costs are the very costs of workers, so their salaries are put first, not to wait for the sale of real estate, and then the workers are charged here and there in one weak proportion and percentage. So if this one, these cash-out costs from the current 5% spending would be put at least 15%, then the workers could be in a better position. Now, in order for this to change at all, since this article is unfortunately not in the changes and amendments to this law we will call on the paragraph of the Constitution in 56 means that the worker is entitled to his salary, which I often call upon, and we will propose, and this is the last, means the last possibility that this law really does what I think most of us are saying is that workers are put into a positive situation. Unfortunately, the secretary of state is probably talking about how it won't be possible, but if we really wanted to put the workers in a better position then we needed to change this article and still can, so it can change that. I think that way this law will make sense. It is indeed that the European Systemic Risks Committee also warns that there is a danger of tsunami means bankruptcy in this period and that it is an assessment of the meaning of the European Committee on Systemic Risks which is given, the day before the war in Ukraine. So we can expect it to be only a worse situation, and in our economic and economic environment, we certainly can't expect it to be better than the percentages we had before, so I already mentioned it, in the 5th year. 51% of the company closes down. A special danger threatens a great like 3. May. While I was talking here, I got word from some of the Kamensky workers. It's a story that's famous, only 15% of the billing of labour claims. Orjava workers are currently asking for this to change, and this legislative proposal means what we have given here if we have passed should be applied to existing bankruptcys that are under way, so we have given an amendment that would make it possible. So the workers of the Orjava that are in this situation at the moment would be in a situation where they get their salaries. Likewise, the Brodotrogira workers, the Brodotrogira workers, many of them did not mean in this bankruptcy process to collect their claims and they would be meant to be protected at this time. The other things we asked for to the amendments were more or less technical, so I may not even mention them, it seemed to me that in the first reading it could have been added, and all in the direction of the directive, which stressed that workers should be given greater opportunity to participate in bankruptcy procedures and restructuring procedures and that workers should be protected as the most sensitive group in these procedures, and here I do not know why they put emphasis in one article only on small creditors, of course they should be protected, but our proposal should also be to add workers and so what I mentioned to the working council should be what, that institution when workers give their opinion in the restructuring process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94888	The next one will speak finally on behalf of the Advocacy Club for a just Croatia respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94889	Therefore, before the adoption of the Consumer Bank Act, it was possible to implement the bankruptcy procedure exclusively under the rules of the regulated bankruptcy law and above the property of the legal person and property of the debtors of the individual. The adoption of the Consumer Bank Act introduces the possibility of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings on the property of all natural persons, and the Republic of Croatia is among the modern world legislation allowing all natural persons to be released from the remaining obligations to their creditors, provided that they are met by the law of the prescribed assumption. According to the Banking Act, bankruptcy can be carried out over a legal person and over the property of an individual's debtor. Under the notion of an individual debtor within the meaning of the bankruptcy law, a natural person is considered to be a taxable person of income tax on his or her own activity under the provisions of the Income Tax Act and a natural person compulsory, a profit tax in accordance with the provisions of the Tax on Profit and against those persons may be subject to bankruptcy proceedings under the provisions of the bankruptcy law, but it is not possible to implement him against a natural person who is neither an individual trader nor a crafter. The bankruptcy procedure is carried out against natural persons under the provisions of the Consumer Bank Act, which has already experienced several novels. One of the fundamental principles of trade and civil law in general is the Pact of Sunt Servand, according to which what the parties agreed to commit them to the implementation itself. Despite the above, however, it should be borne in mind that the right is nevertheless a compromise of different principles. The above principle has been waived in all States which regulate bankruptcy proceedings. It's about bankruptcy and real people and traders. Therefore, in a situation where such a debtor cannot fully fulfil his obligation, it is considered in accordance with one of the oldest principles of bankruptcy law that creditors of at least the same payment order have the right to an equal percentage of the settlement of their claims. In a large number of cases, the cause of insolvency is not in the committed abuses by debtors and his desire to damage the credentials, which is why, in modern bankruptcy law, bankruptcy proceedings are no longer seen as punishment for the bankruptcy debtor. Unlike the insolvency procedure aimed at eliminating the real and economic turnover of the economically and financially incompetent debtors, the consumer bankruptcy process aims to free the honest consumer from the obligations remaining after the liquidation of its assets and the distribution of funds to creditors. The bankruptcy procedure may be opened if the court determines the existence of a bankruptcy reason, hence incompetence for payment, threatening incompetence for payment and over-indebtedness while the consumer’s bankruptcy procedure can only be opened if the consumer is unable to pay. Given that these are very sensitive issues today, I want to single out a few important things, and that is, above all, consumer protection rules. Consumer bankruptcy is intruding into all spheres of his life, so it is not possible to ignore the basic consequences of the personal and social aspects of such a process. Showing sensitivity to such specificities of this process, the legislator is obliged to install safeguard mechanisms to be taken into account when cashing out consumer assets. So I'm talking about protecting dignity and protecting home. When I talk about the protection of dignity, so when cashing in the bankruptcy, the Commissioner is obliged to take care of consumer dignity and to keep the consumer on a monthly basis enough funds for adequate living needs, i.e. an appropriate standard of living. From this amount, the consumer independently smells the cost of housing, i.e. rent, utility fees, electricity, gas, heating, water, draining and other housing costs in accordance with specific regulations. The criteria which will be governed by the Court of Justice in the event of the establishment of a height for the appropriate living needs of the law are simplified to the amount that would be excluded from the exercise in the event that the performance would be carried out on the salary of the perpetrators. For the same purpose, it is prohibited to cash assets below the minimum selling price at which a certain part of the assets can be sold according to the rules of the executive procedure and to decide not to cash parts of the consumer's assets if the cost of the cashing would be greater than the amount achieved by the cashing in which case it will set a time limit for the consumer to pay to the Commissioner's special account the amount corresponding to the amount to be achieved by cashing. So there's protection at home. So we're thinking of the only real estate. When the property required by the consumer for housing is found in the bankruptcy table, he may request that a reasoned proposal from the court be made by the end of the period of verification of behaviour does not sell those properties under cumulatively met assumptions. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94890	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94891	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking today about amendments to the bankruptcy law and to the consumer bankruptcy law, which are laws that regulate the procedure in a very sensitive situation, because bankruptcy is primarily related to financial problems, i.e. many times the failure of a company, which is also related to the loss of jobs, loss of property, property rights, which is certainly very problematic and causes negative emotions, without talking about consumer bankruptcy where we are actually talking about the overindebtedness of a particular citizen and the situation that he has to go through with the help of the state or system to get out of this overindebted situation. When we look at practice, we can conclude that the biggest problem of bankruptcy in the past was in most cases its late opening, i.e. opening up when there's not enough property anymore and the debts are so much that the property can't cover them anymore. The bankruptcy as an instrument was designed to help companies with difficulties to get out of trouble and survive, but in many situations in the past it was actually a front for various machinations, for the extraction of property from a new society to a new one and in bankruptcy would actually be pushed by a society without property, so both workers and creditors remained in trouble. This is certainly what should not happen and what should be sanctioned. In fact, these changes introduce an early warning system in order to inform legal persons and entrepreneurs with difficulties in business in time and to enable them to solve financial difficulties in time, which is really good. In addition, issues related to the appointment of bankruptcy managers and the way in which they are awarded to the bankruptcy exam will be addressed under the new proposal by economists and lawyers with at least three years of experience in the profession and will be entered in the list of qualified and highly qualified bankruptcy managers, depending on their previous experience, which I consider to be a better solution than before. The pre-departure procedure also amends the provisions relating to the vote on the restructuring plan, which is also well related to the acceptance of the plan itself, because so far we have had the situation that if the plan was not declared to be opposed and this has actually led to the blocking of the entry into the process of accepting and implementing the pre-departure restructuring plan. Changes are also proposed to ensure greater protection of the rights of workers whose companies are in bankruptcy and, as regards the consumer’s bankruptcy law, the time of consumer verification is reduced from five years to three years, which is more favourable for them and I believe that it will reduce the time limit and cause many of the citizens to still approach the procedure and thus make their position easier for themselves. What I would also end up saying is that the HDZ Club will have one amendment to the article. 5th century 3. The final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act for the reason that there is no electronic mailbox in the system of secure exchanges of writing between the financial agency and the e-List because it is a direct electronic communication between the two electronic systems and in order to remove the question of the delivery method, it is necessary to in fact delete the proposed. In the end, I will just say that we consider both of these proposals to be final drafts of the law to introduce a newspaper that will ensure a better quality implementation of the pre-fashion procedure, to focus on the early warning system, to ensure greater protection of workers' rights in bankruptcy and to enable consumers to deal with their financial problem more quickly and quality. The HDZ Club will support both of these proposals for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94892	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94893	Honored chairman, secretary, colleague and colleague. Here is a part of the opposition that is not so euphoric and delighted with these laws, and I am glad that several suggestions have come from the ruling majority, or suggestions that can be fixed and that we have been told that we have problems and we certainly welcome it and we think that it is good to see them correctly and those problems that have remained in the law. Now, there's a question of how to vote. If we vote against it, it'll turn out we're against the directive, which we're not. If we vote for turn out, we'll be satisfied with what's in the law, which we're not. So what do we do now? So the laws didn't implement what had to be implemented in order to really achieve the effects, they're more or less cosmetic changes that are related to the directive and nothing else, but we're causing the problems we're currently having with the bankruptcy we're not going to do with this in any way. We will not fight those problems that are really present with us and we will continue to allow those who are making problems to continue to do them and we will continue to allow those who are improperly working and carrying out bankruptcy to continue doing so, and that is not our goal. The goal would be to prevent this from happening and to help both the worker and the owner and all those who were believers in this bankruptcy process. If we don't do it with the bankruptcy law, why do we need such a law? And that is why I appeal again, given that we have talked several times about when and how the law should be passed, when and how it should be reacted to the law, how it should be reacted to the EU directive, how I should react to EU regulations to really start and do so. We have warned from this pay phone many times about these problems, and now we have come back to a problem that is not only about businesses, but also about our fellow citizens. We have two laws under discussion, are we going to really help our fellow citizens with this Law on the personal bankruptcy of consumers? How do we help them? By consulting? Very hard. Therefore, we must make sure that when the law is passed, we take into account our specificities, the current developments in the Republic of Croatia in this area and that it is automatically implemented in the legislative regulation to automatically apply it, if we want to have a better and fairer Croatia, if we want to have a more transparent Croatia, it will not work without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u94894	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on these points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. We are now going to a united discussion on two points: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 233 i - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 234 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution and the Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95004	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, the Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Commercial Society and Amendments and the Supplements of the Law on the Court Register shall be implemented by the EU Directive of 2019 on the use of digital tools and procedures in company law. This Directive allows for the establishment of all types of companies and branches by electronic means, electronic delivery of all data and documents to the court register, etc. until registration. It shall be possible for the remote-based system to be accessed by legislators and pronouns. So far, founders have been able to access the remote-based system on their own. In order to ensure the protection of all persons who communicate with companies or branches and to prevent fraud and abuses, it is important that the competent authorities can verify whether the person appointed as director can carry out that duty. To this end, the Ministry of Justice and Administration will establish and keep records of persons who cannot be members of the management of the society. The introduction of such a record in one place will bring together information on persons who cannot be members of the company’s management and will allow for a quick and simple verification of these data. On the basis of this record, a system of exchanges of data on disqualified directors with Member States of the European Economic, European Economic Area will also be established. Also, in preparation for the introduction of the EUR as official monetary units in Croatia, provisions on econtamination rates are amended. These amendments change the legal tightening interest in such a way that it will no longer be counted against the height of the escontaneous rate but in accordance with the law on mandatory relations. The adoption of these legal proposals will further digitise and simplify the procedure for the establishment of companies and registers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95005	We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95006	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, not long ago on the Legislative Committee, I asked you one question when we had in our first reading a proposal for a Law amending public notebooks because in order for these two laws to work, this law must also function and it must be a common package. And then you said that the absolute government is taking care of it and that we're going to have to read about it at the same time and all together. We had in the first reading of the bill on public notebooks that changed to, among other things, make this work. Since we now have in our second reading these two laws I am interested in in the application of the law, it will not be possible to fully apply this amendment without making it an amendment. What are you doing here, what do you think, and how are you going to coordinate it with each other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95007	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95008	Dear MPs, thank you. So those who follow this issue know that the Ministry of Justice is actually on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposing these laws and that these three laws are in the package. They don't exactly go into, they don't go into government and parliamentary procedures, but we're keeping an eye on things and they're going to be set up so that they're all going to come into force at the same time and produce the legal effects that we've applied to both of the two and the third laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95009	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95010	Thank you. Do you think that direct electronic registration could increase the problem of false identities or identity theft that easily arises in situations where there is no physical authentication, which today is a serious growing problem and how to solve it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95011	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95012	Your Honor, I'd say you're a very good thinker. That thinking was present and on the working group, that thinking is present I would say to all those who follow this problem. We are basically here in a constant way conducting a test of proportionality. Modern communications, modern technologies are ahead and we must implement them in legislative frameworks to speed up all processes. Of course, in that situation, there are hidden and constant difficulties. Those who want to protect themselves from such executions, such dangers, they can continue to protect themselves after these changes in physical form to make registrations, until registration and any changes. Of course this is no longer a matter of law but protection from, from, from hackers, so in a way that makes software as high-quality and better in this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95013	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95014	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here, as we could hear these amendments and additions to the law other than the implementation of the directive, a series of news has been introduced primarily regarding the establishment of remote societies. Digitalization is being introduced. However, the usual model of starting with the public notary remains, so this new way without a public notary and legal adviser is introduced as an alternative option, and therefore it can still go physically to the public notary, but what these new methods and distance-based methods will contribute to all is that both certain tariffs and certain fees will be abolished or reduced and thus not only allow a faster procedure of establishment but also reduce a certain financial impact on our citizens who want to start.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95015	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95016	Yes, Your Honor, you're right. Here, somehow, that fact has passed in the shadow, which is that this digital technology will allow for changes in a series of data, not everyone in the court register without going to the public notary, so the founder will be able to change a series of data that so far meant by the public notary, which means applying for the change of that data, which I know and as a lawyer very much cost, and legal and public record services and fees and publications in the National Journal, so we have now avoided all of this with a few changes in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95017	Thank you very much, no more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95018	Here's me, we have two amendments to the Legislative Committee, and we both accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95019	Thank you very much, and we're going to have a debate. I am opening the debate and the rights will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, honourable representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95020	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about these laws, then they don't exactly make too much of a public storm, but all of us who have ever worked in the economy know how important they are, and between these two readings there have been no major changes, there have been no major changes in that, so I'm going to look back very briefly and maybe emphasize what I was saying in principle and in the first reading, and that is, it can be summed up in what we often say, and that's a question of measures whether, how much of these changes make things easier for us, but on the other hand, how much we make it harder for ourselves because we simplify the opening of a company and reduce costs related to it is always something we should praise. It is something that will make business easier for our economies, but on the other hand, if we look at other things, it will also make it easier for that part of our business on the brink of legality and even malversion. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register are, as the Honored State Secretary and the Law on Commercial Companies have been, in essence, in compliance with European directives. We have already talked a little bit today, and counterpart Pavić has made it very nice to point out that we, in principle, only prescribe these directives, rather than adapt our reality and our economic situation, and the directive, unlike the regulation, determines the direction and determines the goal to be achieved, and not the way it will be achieved. However, these requirements put forward by Europe in the directive are not illogical, should be welcomed and go to the part we often hear, and in the NPOO it is almost in all documents highlighted, and this is green and digital to express myself in such a way that our part relating to the judiciary needs to be digitised and it needs to be facilitated and speeded up, to increase transparency. I think we're all going to say hello, and we're all going to agree to that, and I'm glad that here from that ministry is speeding up and working on it because it's really crucial in that ministry. In order to make it easier, faster, time-consuming, more efficient to set up companies using digital tools is, of course, good, but on the other hand, you need to see what it means, what it means in practice. So if you look at Croatia, we already have 40,000 companies that don't have any employees, and often these companies are called phantom companies or company ficus, and it's not our specific company, they have other countries, and it's often used in construction, so for certain projects, a special company is set up so that it doesn't endanger the existing business if, in some cases, there are some difficulties in business, but we have them in a rather poor voice. No matter what business is not contrary to the law, it's all legal, it's all legal, but often it's half the company's business with losses and those losses are measured by billions and when you see it that way, it's not so meaningless. On the one hand, it should be easier for entrepreneurs to start companies faster, simpler and cheaper, to strengthen and intensify entrepreneurial activity, but on the other hand we open that Pandora's box to keep you phantom or so on. The company's ficus is even more dominant and in principle we have more and more companies that have that initial capital of 10 kuna. That's the so-called. simple limited-responsibility companies and according to CNB data are precisely those companies that do not have employees in the category of those who can hardly repay at all and the only way is, but well this is not in the jurisdiction of this ministry, but it is always necessary to look at cross-sectorally enhanced tax supervision and precisely such companies because these companies are also bound by millions of taxes that do not pay at the end. So the problems then spread, once we open that part, when we facilitate business opening and business opening, it comes back to us later on in another area, which is tax collection, and I'm just going to remind you of a case from the Primorje-Gorski County where the companies founded by Italian citizens remain in debt of as much as 210 million kuna of tax debt, 210 million, that's not small. So we have to ask what they were doing, what was the Ministry of Finance doing, what was the IRS doing? We see when income tax is due to be charged to citizens who went to the stomach for bread then they are very effective, going to 2016. And how are they going to charge these 210 million kunas? From who? No employees, no assets, no nothing likely owners are inaccessible and ultimately nothing. Who's responsible for that? It's back in some gray zone because if there isn't enough core capital, and there isn't, then that tax debt will probably never be charged. And I always have to ask myself that it's no doubt that no employee driver has any company involved in road transport and no one is suspicious of it, and no one is controlling it and no one is controlling it. And in the end, tax debt and ultimately nothing. Estonia is a country that really in the field of digitisation is preceded and needs to be seen in a number of segments, but it is also the best example for you that this simplification can and mainly open a space for numerous manipulations. The National Bank of Estonia has admitted that more than a thousand billion euros have been washed through companies in 2008-2017, meaning companies that were the most common washing machines and nothing else. And honestly whoever worked in the economy knows that in Croatia it is not too hard to open the company now. It is much harder to close the company and these processes last much longer even for simple d.o.o. It takes two years and it's more expensive to close the company than to open it. Don't forget that and then you have fees so you have to publish etc. So that's all the things I have to point out, and I hope other resolutions take care of that, too. One thing is to simplify, one is to reduce the cost of compensation, but then the Tax Administration must be a little more efficient in that segment, a little focused on other taxes, not just on income tax and VAT as the main charger of the budget, and in my view it is crucial. Of course, the respected secretary of state sitting here isn't in charge of it, but I hope he hears me at the Ministry of Finance. This is all good, not bad, will help entrepreneurs, strengthen them, encourage them to entrepreneurship, but on the other hand opens a whole series of possibilities for malversions where then competent institutions and competent resolutions must act much faster and more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95021	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives for Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95022	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have two final proposals for amendments to the Law on the Court Register and amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies that actually comply with European directives. As set out in the reasons for the draft law, this proposal allows for the entry into the court register of data and documents in a distance for all entities of entry in the court register and for the exchange of information on branches and disqualified directors between the registers of the countries of the European Economic Area. We welcome the provision allowing competent authorities to verify that the person appointed to the Director is prohibited from performing the Director's duties in order to prevent any abuses. We hope that this will reduce in the right traffic the number of those companies that are established only with the parole will be patient and deleted. The Registrar of Information on Disqualified Directors with the countries of the European Economic Area at the Ministry of Justice should be a good and transparent tool to prevent the appointment of the Director of Persons who are prohibited from performing their duties as Director. Still in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot be satisfied with the degree of digitisation and procedures relating to the establishment and registration of branches of companies in relation to developed EU countries in this area. According to the indicator relating to the supply and demand of digital public services and the openness of data, the most successful countries are Estonia, Spain, Denmark, etc., and we are at the bottom together with Romania, Greece, Slovakia. Although our delegations from the public administration have been pilgrimaged to Estonia, they are nowhere near the level of their digitisation without talking about education. Unlike the Republic of Croatia, which is networked by cousins and godfathers, and where the main question is whether you have anyone to push things forward, Estonia is a space where you can advance and meet and prove different areas of action exclusively with your knowledge and competences. There are no godparents, relatives, and party connections in public services because only the best and most diligent advances. In our case, public authorities often ask the parties for information from official records of other public authorities and courts, even though they are legally required to request official records from competent public authorities and courts. Therefore, the exchange of official records by electronic means is something which is an imperative of legality, efficiency and economicity of the procedure itself. Our public registry is unrelated, every public body has its own IT provider, a friend, a relative, a godfather whom someone knows as a good and reliable supplier. Therefore, the information programmes of various public authorities are often incompatible. To remove this incompatibility, we spend funds from the eu funds, and it's fortunate that this kinship-godfather relationship doesn't help. And while the rulings very much like the notion of digitisation and are putting it in everywhere and often because of the obligation to implement the EU directive of the country of Estonia leaves us far behind in this area, so we lose some of the investment cake that comes with the digitisation and establishment of companies and their branches on the Internet. It is good, however, it should be pointed out that through the State services, it is possible to run the business by electronic means and d.o.o. and j.d.o. via the portal e-Citizens. Many d.o.o. and j.d.o.s. would not be based on this possibility, since young future entrepreneurs do not have the will or nerves to visit various offices to collect documentation and start a company. They want a simple online procedure with the possibility of digital signature. We therefore welcome the provision that the application for registration in the court register can be submitted to the court in electronic form. Such application shall be submitted by electronic means via the public notary, the website of the judicial registry system or the website of the court register as part of the START system. If the application is not required, the public notary or applicant shall sign the application by qualified electronic signature. It is important to enable the assembly of a public-booked document in electronic form in a remote procedure, and to comply with the provisions of the amendment and addition of the Public Note Act. This proposal for a law implementing that directive on the use of digital tools and procedures in society law should strongly encourage the establishment of these new entities at a distance. However, in order to eliminate abuses, it is important to give the court the authority to require the physical presence of the parties in front of the public notary if they suspect that the persons who submit the application have forged or otherwise misused their identity, that they are not in a commercial capacity or that they do not have the appropriate authority to submit the application, that the rules on the prevention of money laundering or that there are other illegalities in the procedure are violated when they are filed. We support the provision which states that if solutions or conclusions have been made for the proposal submitted by the registration entity, the solution or the conclusion shall be submitted to the registration entity by publication on the website of the court register and to the address of the email entered by the applicant in the court register. The delivery of registration entities shall be deemed to have expired on the eighth day from the date of publication of the letter on the website of the court register. The Directive states that a minimum set of data on companies must always be provided free of charge, which will also increase transparency of company data. The EU also insists on linking the Central Register of Commercial Courts, Commercial Companies and Member States which started further in 2017, which significantly facilitates cross-border access to information on trade societies in the Union and allows registers in Member States to communicate with each other on certain cross-border activities relating to companies. It is evident that the application for registration in electronic form of communication between the Register Court and the Proposer in electronic form is simpler and faster and that they should develop this form of communication compared to the registration of the Register Court in paper form with the application in paper form. In order to facilitate the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register, and to reduce the costs of time and administrative burden associated with these procedures, particularly micro-enterprises, and small and medium-sized enterprises as defined in the Commission's recommendation should establish procedures to ensure that the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register can be fully implemented via the Internet. That Directive should not oblige the company to use such procedures, however, Member States should be able to decide whether to make any or all of the online procedures compulsory. It is clear that the Republic of Croatia should have developed increasingly procedures that could be fully implemented by means of remote internet communication, both in paper and in paper form, by means of the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register. If we want to keep up with developed European countries that attract investors and create new jobs. The Social Democrats' Club considers these two final drafts of the law to be on this trail and therefore we will support their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95023	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95024	Thank you. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, as well as with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, as well as with the opinion of the Committee on Plants, Ensuring the existence of a legal and administrative environment that is up to the new social and economic challenges of globalisation and digitalisation is crucial in order to provide, on the one hand, the necessary mechanisms of protection against abuse and fraud, and, on the other hand, to achieve objectives such as promoting economic growth, creating new jobs and attracting investment, and all these factors could bring economic and social benefits to society as a whole. This law allows the registration of data and documents in a remote court register for all entities of registration in a court register and allows the exchange of information in branches and disqualified directors between the registers of the countries of the European Economic Area. The adoption of this law will take place in the digitisation of the procedure for the registration of companies in the court register, modernising and facilitating the establishment of branches of companies, enabling all necessary registrations of companies, and the establishment and registration of branches to be carried out at a distance. The electronic procedure requires exclusive and complete electronic access without physical contact and sending of paper, and must be accessible to EEA citizens. In order to ensure the protection of all persons who communicate with companies or branches, and in order to prevent fraud or other types of abuse, it is important that the competent authorities can verify that the person appointed to the Director is prohibited from performing the duties of the Director. For this purpose, a system for the exchange of information on disqualified directors with EEA States shall be established. Despite the proposal's good intentions, I agree with those who see potential threats in the content of the proposal, so I will only list some. Thus, there is already a problem of false identities or identity theft that easily arises in situations where there is no physical authentication which today is a growing problem, and could be linked directly or indirectly by electronic registration. Then the inability to identify identity reliably and in situations where it has not been stolen, e.g. sharing of electronic identity between multiple persons. Then, by electronic means, it is not possible to determine the existence of a flawed will, therefore, to see a person’s expression or body language, so registration could be carried out by applying a threat or forcing a person to do so. Then the inability to provide legal assistance and to provide legal advice to the ignorant party in electronic legal traffic during direct electronic registration. In the case of direct electronic registration, the possibility of a preventive judiciary is significantly reduced. The adverse consequences and possible judicial proceedings do not arise or arise significantly less in situations where public notebooks also participate in the establishment of companies. Minorisation of the content and formal credibility and authenticity of the company's founding act as a public document, so the release of the cognitive form of the company's founding act with the guarantee of the recording of the composers as a qualified and competent person behind such an instrument would suit the grey economy and nadrising and create assumptions for the conduct of various abuses by means of its name, calling and liability for damage. Then, the insecurely formally established background of a particular company may, in business processes, require the need for additional insurance and the conclusion of legal transactions in order to protect the rights and ensure compliance with the obligations of the Contracting Parties. The possibility of money laundering and terrorist financing could be a violation of the economic stability of the state which, under the conditions of the facilitated flow of unverified capital, would become not only economically at risk but also securely unstable. Then a negative impact on the political, economic and security legal picture of the Republic of Croatia in the world and its appeal to foreign investment and capital. Then the problem of differentiating companies established without the power of attorney from companies established by indirect electronic registration. It is possible that companies established without legal power would represent entities subject to a lower level of trust. The extraction of company business records in another business register led by the HGK body other than the court register would further foster the dispersion of the founding and credibility of the promotion and acceleration of the work of entrepreneurship, as well as the coherence of business processes related to certain changes in companies. The analysis of the previously highlighted facts that would result from direct electronic registration raises the question of who and how to guarantee that the Republic of Croatia and its parties to legal traffic will not be subject to property damage as a result of the legal uncertainty it carries with it the establishment of companies without consistent control. Therefore, in the future, exactly what it wants to avoid through direct electronic registration could happen, which could result in a breach of legal certainty and the principles of trust in the register as a whole, and in the societies listed in it. It is therefore necessary to find an appropriate dose of controlling the establishment of companies through a comprehensive process of indirect electronic registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95025	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95026	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Honored Ministry representatives, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. As at the first reading, the SDP Club will support these two laws that are in front of us today in the debate because on the one hand we believe that the vast majority of the alignment with the European directives that we have implemented has proved to be one good thing and yet has proved to be one step where we are returning faith in the institutions, but we are also raising this level of legal certainty that is particularly important in this field, but we also believe that everything we can do on the way to further digitisation by our economy, and of course there is a very important and digitisation of our so-called. bureaucracy is something that means a lot to us and can speed up a lot of processes. We simply consider this law to be much greater benefits than potential difficulties. Of course we're appealing to what we've been through today and what we've discussed several times, we simply see where we still need to raise that level of security and attention to a higher level, but we consider this a good step where I'm not going to say that we're going to start a fight, but it's certain that we're opening up space that we don't have a bunch of phantom companies and we don't have a bunch of companies that worked in a way that went missing and then we've lost years, even 10 years if there's ever been a responsible person and determined why and where they did it. So this is definitely one good path and one good try and we hope that it will contribute to speeding up the processes and raising protection and security to one higher level, but that is why I believe and make a good part of these processes cheaper for our entrepreneurs and all those who need such services. What we would certainly like to add here is that we hope that this is not a final step but that it is one of the steps because simply if we are talking about the digitalization of our country itself, excuse me, there is still a lot of space where digitisation can be carried out in the system of public administration, where a lot of processes can be introduced into digital form and where it can simply be shown where we have the space for reforming and restructuring of public administration, but where we still have the space for this state itself and the public administration itself to be cheaper to our entrepreneurs, which, of course, ultimately results in a space for lower taxation. So we hope to continue on that path and as a club, once again, we will support these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95027	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow State Secretarys from the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues, as already told several times before us are two final laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Society and the Court Register. Of course, as has also been said many times, many EU directives are implemented, which I believe deeply that this judicial area of the Croatian judiciary will be placed at the very top because the provisions that are concentrated in all European judicial areas are implemented. The amendments proposed here should also be seen in light of changes and broader reforms in the judiciary that have been introduced. Recently and recentfully not full 7 days or maybe 2 weeks ago, we have involved certain amendments to how the Law on Courts, on State Lawyers and on the headquarters of these state attorneys, which certainly contributes to the reforms that are necessary in this area, which is of great importance for Croatian civil society as such. Of course, this is all an integral part of and certain recovery and resilience plans in which the area of judicial reform has been sufficiently confirmed and confirmed so that the necessity of these amendments is particularly important for the development and further implementation of Croatian society. Of course, the bankruptcy laws and others were spoken more of than my colleagues, I will only briefly remind myself of what is changing in these laws in question. There is a possibility of remote establishment, we also praise digitisation, which speeds up the whole process through the opportunities of companies to be founded at a distance. A certain administrative discharge shall also be made in respect of a number of charges, i.e. the very certificates which were also necessary in this whole area so far, i.e. through the Law on the Court Register of Deleting Unsuitable Data, which are particularly regarding the address, so that no longer a strict formal procedure has to be carried out as it has been so far. Introduces so-called. disqualified directors, many.../incomprehensible/... I would only like to emphasise in this whole, that these changes one of the problems that has been happening in practice is that in the division of societies, however, all these changes that occurred until the entry itself are properly followed by a company that is either attached and divided or thus cannot be prevented from carrying out all other acts that have been made. In relation to the first reading, of course, the comments were deleted, I think it is particularly important to highlight that provision which was deleted in Article 21, respectively, paragraph 3, of the fourteenth Law, because I also think it is justified that the ministry's position to lead to legal uncertainty in that part and in some way, rather than in some way, we have accepted the provisions that this solemnisation in the public notary must be such as to give one additional certainty rather than what it has been so far, or in order to allow, with these amendments, a simple verification of the signature to occur in the business shares, but in view of the numerous observations which were in the first reading, the applicant is the said, the amendments concerned, the proposed amendments and adopted. Finally, in view of the last time I spoke a lot, a number of amendments have been introduced regarding the liquidation of the company, as can be easily established, it is important that this part of the liberalised nature, respecting the possibility of storage for the relevant documents sent in order to establish, in the event of possible additional procedures, the real situation and the real situation and, on such facts, to make certain decisions in the way certain other regulations would be implemented. Finally, the HDZ Club as well as in the first reading holds that, will support the law in question, the final draft of the law. We think that this will also further enhance efficiency in resolving court disputes, or in the work itself, at the speed of the work of the court itself. I particularly think about the facts of the court register,.../incomprehensible/... as I have already said the Croatian Democratic Club will also support the proposals of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95029	Thank you. Now we will return to our point that we broke up last night, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives CENTR and Vosa, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your honors and for your representatives. Lately, HDZ's parliamentary majority adopted a whole series of laws that have a significant impact on the judiciary. I guess it'll try to show up as some kind of mini reform. Changes are mostly cosmetics except in that part of anti-corruption law that we can estimate as a deep salt of the mortal. The changes are mostly backward and will act harmfully on the anti-corruption system. When we talk about this Law on the Court Register and the trade societies in which we re-implement the provisions of the European Directive, they can say that these changes are positive. In any case, I support the electronic establishment of companies. It would be good if we had done more to simplify the process of closing companies by electronic means, and in principle there is still plenty of room left to advance electronic, or digital business. What I am sorry, I am sorry that we will have to wait again perhaps for a future European directive in order to introduce into our legislation some methods of digital control that have existed in certain EU countries for more than a decade. For example, it would be good to introduce digital registers at least when it comes to entering business relations with public authorities in a similar way as Slovenia has implemented through its Erar system which I say exists for more than ten years. In fact, it is something that can be described as a slightly better digitized excel table in which everything that can be considered a degree in business relations with public authorities is simply contained. This would include public authorities, their business partners, contract content, contract subject, all items literally in terms of the case, prices, delivery deadlines, contract execution control plus access to the document itself, the contract itself in some PDF form. This would help to determine who in the Republic of Croatia is doing business with and we would not have a good part of today's exhibitions about how there are some fictitious companies or how these fictitious companies participate in a number of malversions most often linked and intertwined with political elites. This would significantly contribute to reducing and preventing the creation of fictitious businesses. In the part relating to the whole economy, therefore, all companies, regardless of whether they are operating with public authorities or not, the best way to control, the best way to protect all those involved in market activities is a functional, efficient and fast judiciary guaranteeing the collection of claims. Unfortunately, there is no such thing, but it is not a topic that is being addressed by this law but by a whole series of other measures, I say it will have to wait for some government this one for the deep, fundamental changes in the judiciary obviously did not have enough ambition. And as for the way companies operate, what we did not touch during today's debate is that in fact Croatia has never been fully built as a market economy in the way it works in other countries. For example, we are terrified and so today some MPs said that facilitating and setting up companies will increase the number of those fictitious companies. How it prevents the market from working well, so simply by making deals with the company in which there is market confidence. These are those companies that have already been placed on the market through their work so far, acquired their clientele and whose scope of work and business is simply good and publicly visible. It is then also easier for the tax authorities, but also for all other bodies involved in the control and control system to detect those real economic operators than those not available. This would also make it easier to find out where those entities that exist only for money laundering, and bodies such as the State's Attorney's Office and others would simply be able to separate the grain from the weeds on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95031	We move on to an individual debate, so the honourable representative, Damir Habian, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95032	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues here I must admit that I am a little sorry that, in fact, the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register actually does not have any great, great interest, especially as far as I can see from the opposition, but about that, I would say in fact all of these positive regulations that we are dealing with are, in fact, governed by maybe real life and us as under the quotes of natural persons, and this would say that the Christian laws relating to the lives of legal persons. But here's the interest he is. Therefore, as already stated in these amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies to Croatian national legislation, the EU directive on the use of digital tools and procedures in the right of companies is transposed, all to ensure the effective functioning and administrative discharge and modernisation of the internal market, but also to increase the competitiveness of companies. In this context, at the first reading of this proposal, the proposer proposed an amendment to Article 412(3) of the Commercial Society Act in such a way that when the transfer of business shares contract is concluded, there is no more soloisation but only to verify the signature of the parties. Certainly, the applicant’s intensity was to facilitate and speed up the process of transfer or purchase of business shares or to reduce the costs of transactions, therefore, in the conclusion of a transfer agreement. The Proposer is here as we have heard suggested between these two readings erasing paragraph 3. Article 412, given that the analysis has established that the amendments would tear down the established system of the registration of members of the company. This is what our representative said on behalf of the club, so we welcome these changes. Many of the advantages of the transfer of the business share are based on a public note or a soloized private document. Therefore, a higher level of legal certainty is also ensured for those involved in the legal traffic of a company in which a change in the membership structure occurs. There is also greater security for future acquirers of business interests, and ultimately there is certain insurance and so on. the public function of the list of members in the court register, i.e. the accuracy of the registration data on the identity of members of a limited liability society. So the question arises why is this public or public function important to the list of members of society? For reasons that it enables public control of real membership in a commercial society. In particular, a public notary as a public authority who participates in the process of changing company members shall draw up a list of members of the company and submit it to the court register of the competent court. In other words, by participating in the process of transfer of business interests in such a way as to solemnise the transfer of business shares contract, the public notary shall, among other things, confirm that all mentioned in the list of company members corresponds to the changes in which it participated and that the data on it are forwarded to the data in the latest list submitted to the Court of Justice. Moreover, a public record act and a soloised private document has full evidence of the content, quality of the contractor’s will or statements, unlike the very verification of the signature, in which case the public notary would no longer be a shareholder in the process of changing members of the company, but in fact its role would be to determine the identity of the person who signed the contract. For this reason, the public notary would no longer be obliged to submit a list of members of the company to the court register. It is therefore proposed to delete the sentence in question from Art. 412. The law on companies is good and contributes certainly to greater legal certainty for a company with limited liability for all participants as well as for business shareholders themselves. I believe that, in addition to the above, good practice should be highlighted, for example, in the Republic of Germany, where it is also for the transfer of business shares in D.O. as well as for all documents relating to the establishment, registration or registration or any other activity concerning limited liability companies is also prescribed a qualified form or public notation document. In view of all the above, I welcome once again this proposal to take the item in question or to be made out of art. The 412th century 3 also erases that legal certainty and for society itself, participants and all those who gain a business share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95033	Thank you. We have two replicas, one respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95034	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague. Here you yourself are in some way and in your private life related to this topic and you have dealt with it, or you have felt what it means in the real sector, certain changes and additions and the application of legal regulations. Today we could hear through the debate that these changes and additions bring a lot, on the one hand we have digitization, simplification of the establishment of companies, we have a faster way of enabling everything that has not been done so far. On the other hand, we have a suspension of fees, a reduction of tariffs, on the third hand we have something that I would like to ask you, so one newspaper where the Ministry of Justice and the administration will take over to create records of all those persons who will not be able to be directors or members of the administration and that will also be linked to the European economic space. So you can tell me, and that reduced abuse, how will all this affect the application of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95035	Thank you. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95036	Thank you very much. So, my colleague, Hungarian, that's why I can't agree with this finding that was just said here that it is generally when we're talking about amending certain rules on cosmetic changes lately, these are definitely not cosmetic changes. What you mentioned, too, is important, so it's changing. In 239, which prescribes the crimes that prevents a person from being appointed to the administration or appointed director. And also this part that you mentioned will be kept very clear records of people who cannot be members of the administration, but which actually refers to all EU Member States therefore more control and thus greater prevention. Also, when I was speaking, I may not have mentioned this part, although I think you have pointed out, I think it is necessary to mention once again that our citizens, perhaps those who enter entrepreneurship, will remember the effect of this law, for example, the public notary is no longer the one who is therefore the alternative, or you will be in the public notary for registration or via electronic networks or digitalisation. Therefore, a lot of the benefits of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95037	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95038	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleague. So, in your presentation, and now in response to the replica of your colleagues, you mentioned one word that I think is key to both these two laws and a series of laws that we have, which is the role and importance of digitization. So, we live really in a time that is very, very strange and I think that this story with the crown that has brought a lot of evil, and some things have proved to us that the things that have so far seemed impossible in terms of the digital world that it is possible, especially in the business that you've been doing outside this assembly where it has proved that it can function so far, that they can function in another way and it seems to me that it should not stop but improve and more and more and more use. And that's why it's important and to point out that people can do some things themselves, and it's possible through these laws, so I'm asking you nicely, given your experience, somehow once again, to look at it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95039	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95040	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. Well, here I think we all agree in this assembly about this content of this law. I would rely on what he mentioned digitization, so it's important what little I have to admit bothered me maybe today during the debate, although I can understand... some MPs where they have more pointed to the possibility of abuse. However, I would also point out that this bill is a very clearly prescribed preventive mechanism in the event, for example, that the Court of Justice suspects that persons who have, by way of a distance, concluded or wanted to enter into a social contract, established a company that they have forged or their data, therefore there is always the possibility that the Register Court would report it or to establish their true identity. It was also here again today, and already on several occasions, in fact, an evil voice brought by companies that do not have a director or have no employees, but it is one practice that is fully known outside, and because of several cases that may have been in the Republic of Croatia it would not be good for all those companies that have their reasons and purpose of existence to actually lead to an evil voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95041	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on these points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. We now move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Civil Protection System Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 238. The promoter is a representative of Marijan Pavliček, based on art. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The government has delivered their opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Marian Pavliček, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95084	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is the way I would like to first thank all parliamentary representatives and MPs who, by their signature, have enabled us to discuss today the addition of the Civil Protection System Act with the final draft of the law. Namely, the Civil Protection System Act has a special importance in times of major natural disasters, don't give God wars, but it also has an extremely great importance in the pandemic era and we have been inside the Covida pandemic for two years now. Up until two years ago, few of our fellow citizens were able to count what the operational forces of the civil protection system were. Also, even fewer of our citizens knew that civil protection headquarters were part of the operational forces and that they existed at local, regional and national levels. It is this Staff of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the National Centre at national level in the last two years, has had a significant impact on our daily life. The work of the Staff itself is more widely described in the Civil Protection System Act, which states in Article 21(2): "The Civil Protection Station is professional" this should be remembered by "the professional, operational and co-ordinated body for the implementation of measures and civil protection activities in major accidents and disasters". In addition, Article 22 of that same law states: ‘The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Minister, establish and appoint a solution to the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of executives from the Central Authorities of the State Administration, operational forces of the Civil Protection System and other legal persons of particular importance for the protection system of the Republic of Croatia.’ This Decision shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 20 February 2020, when, on the proposal of the Minister of Resorship, the Chief of Staff of Staff of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Davor Bozinović, Vice-President of the Government, until the appointment of State Secretary of State Damir Trut, as his deputy. Another 25 members of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia have been appointed on this occasion. And today here are two years from this pandemic most of these individuals are still unknown to the general public. However, when you study their résumés more closely then you can conclude that we have a part of the graduate lawyers, that we have an economist, that we have a traffic engineer, that we have a construction engineer, that we have a seismologist, that we have an epidemiologist of all known Krunoslav Capak, director of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and that we have one doctor, and one brigade general. It is often mentioned that the Staff is an expert body that speaks the law and no one argues that these people are not professional in their profession. However, the question arises how professional they really are in making decisions in the fight against covid-19. How much does an economist, one lawyer, one traffic engineer know about it? But it is very important to note that a good part, not all of them, but a good part of those people who are in the Civil Protection Headquarters have something in common, and this is the membership card of one political option in this HDZ case and this confirms that this Staff is primarily one political body. It should also be noted that at the beginning of the pandemic itself, Stoger almost daily convened press conferences to inform about how fast the virus spreads, which measures were taken. At these press conferences, two other people appeared in addition to Chief of Staff Davor Bozinovic and Kronoslav Kapak. It is Health Minister Willi Beroš and that is Alemka Markotic. These latter two are not members of the Staff, but are later appointed as associated members, which is very important for the prominent. In the last two years, the Civil Protection Centre has made a total of 474 decisions aimed at curbing the further spread of covida-19. Unfortunately, these decisions were politically motivated rather than epidemiologically justified. Often, these decisions of the same Staff have been driven into fundamental human freedoms such as freedom of movement, and I will now taxively list all decisions, and often the leaders of the Staff have made contradictory statements that have killed themselves, and they have also often violated the decisions they have made themselves. So let's just remember the beginning of the first case recorded in Croatia since covida-19 was 25 February 2020. The first decisions taken by the Civil Protection Staff were made on March 19th, so almost a month later. Until then, the famous phrase "healthy nation in the first place" was not important. For what? Because of the internal elections in HDZ. During March, the HDZ in-party elections took place when the first round of elections ended on March 15th afterwards, both the first decisions and measures of the Staff took place. And these were extremely restrictive measures, so I'll only mention some that were passed on March 19th. This is a measure that refers to the ban on all public events and gatherings of more than 5 people in one place. It is a measure and a decision that prohibits the work of numerous trades, a measure which suspends all religious gatherings, suspends the work of car schools, foreign languages, etc., etc.,... the measure in crossing the border, etc., was all taken 4 days after the internal elections, and almost a month after the first Covida-19 case in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's think of some other measures that the Staff has taken. At the very beginning, for example, a measure prohibiting the use of all playgrounds because it was afraid that the virus could be kept on metal surfaces longer. Let us also remember measures to limit the working time of the catering facilities to 21, 22 hours or by midnight because the crown appears only in the night hours. Let us also remember, and measures prohibiting children from association inside the school if they come from different classrooms, while children come to that same school on a bus, no matter what class they come from. Let us also remember measures related to Covid certificates that have proved to be truly pointless because it has been scientifically proven that both vaccinated and unvaccinated and those who have already been ill and those who have not yet been ill can again be affected by the Covid-19 virus and that they can pass that virus on to you. This later appeared to us in numbers of several thousand a day of newly ill patients, and that is precisely why this same Staff is making a decision to suspend these Covid certificates in public authorities. Let us also remember the latest measures for children in primary and secondary schools to wear masks only during the break where they spend 5 to 10 minutes, while at the same time during the 45-minute period they do not have to wear these masks. And that measure doesn't have any footholds in a healthy logic either. Let us remember, too, that the leaders of the Staff as early as May 2020 that masks have no effect in protecting against Covida-19, that they have only psychological significance, only 4 months after September, the Staff makes its decision that masks are obligations in all closed and public spaces. It should also be remembered that the Chiefs of Staff violated the measures they themselves had taken, so about 6 months ago, the Minister of Interior and the Chief of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, who signed all decisions, was photographed in the Spaladium arena in a basketball game without a mask on his face despite the fact that there was a measure of mandatory wearing masks in closed spaces. Away from his closest associates only 30 cm, despite the fact that the decision was that you must be 2 m away from the first talker in the closed area. Let us also remember that two months ago, health minister Willy Beros was photographed at the clock, again in a closed space without a mask on his face with some excuse for drinking water at the time. There was no excuse that he was wrong, let alone, God forbid he offered his mandate at his disposal. It also raises the question whether this 27-man headquarters + 2 associated members, those 474 decisions he made, took a quorum. Did this Staff really meet each time before making decisions? Apparently not. These decisions were made within 3 to 4 persons, even there we did not adhere to those fundamental democratic standards that some decisions must be made on a particular body by a semi-half majority. Let us also remember another absurd measure at the beginning of the pandemic when leaving the place of residence was banned. And then we had absurd situations that people in certain municipalities were impossible to get out of their village because they didn't have a doctor in their municipality, they didn't have a clinic, they didn't have a pharmacy, they didn't have a store, they didn't have an ATM, and at the same time in the City of Zagreb, where 700 thousand people could move freely because it was a separate territorial unit. A series of decisions made by this Staff were purely political decisions, politically motivated, not epidemiologically justified. The latest amendments and additions to the Civil Protection System Act in March 2020 enabled the Centre of Additional Powers in Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 22a reads: In the event of the occurrence of specific circumstances involving an event or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which endangers the life and health of citizens, the property of greater value, significantly disrupts the environment, economic activity or causes significant economic damage, the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia makes decisions and instructions implemented by the civil protection headquarters of the local and regional self-government unit. We believe that in these two years, all of us, including the laymen, know well how this virus spreads and its variants and subvariants. Thank God these latest variants are with much weaker symptoms, and we don't think there's any need for hasty decision-making. This is no longer some natural disaster, such as an earthquake, so the Staff must act immediately, so we have the view that all decisions of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia should be confirmed exactly by HS. It is the parliamentary representatives who have been legitimate, who have won the elections and therefore consider it parliamentary, that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is even more of a professional body than this Staff because more doctors are sitting in this House today than you currently have in the Civil Protection Staff. At the moment, you have one, one epidemiologist and one.../incomprehensible... two associated members. Therefore, we propose that in the Civil Protection System Act, Article 2 of the Law on Civil Protection, 22a behind Article 2 adds No 3 which reads as follows: Decisions and Instructions of Art. 1 of this Article. which are adopted in order to protect citizens from infectious diseases shall enter into force once they have been confirmed by HS. Then all those decisions will get that legitimacy that should be obtained, and the Staff will no longer be a pure political body as it has been the case so far, here, I hope that we will have one quality debate and that even by ruling, we will accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95085	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Pavlichek. They will not rule because the Staff is their body, the proxy body from which they have and from which they are fenced in decision-making, the government does not want to vote on these measures here because it would certainly harm them. This way they have one body that is politically composed and which is the only purpose of that body was when it was established, to make quick decisions. Gentlemen, we sit here at HS every week, I don't see why we can't decide on the future and the measures imposed on the Croatian people, but it has to do some kind of proxy service that is constantly presented as this, professional, which is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95087	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95088	I agree with you, I have such an opinion that we have all been well aware of how this virus behaves and that it would be much better quality, and that this would really be a democracy festival to confirm these measures here after a parliamentary debate once every two weeks because there is really no need for hasty measures because this virus is no longer unknown. Unfortunately, because of the current functioning, people have lost confidence in this Staff because it is a purely one political body that has many experts, but very few experts who are related to the fight against Covida-19. We also need to know that this particular Covid-19 in the parliamentary elections won the HDZ at some point, and we remember those prime minister statements, we won the crown, but there it is again with several thousand patients a day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95089	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95090	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Pavlichek. In the world of the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, I see that many MPs are not too interesting, this unfortunately proves this empty assembly, but one crisis, another crisis, once again crisis, are we going to let all the next crisis completely shut down what we call parliamentary democracy and we see today that from autocracy to totalitarianism is not a big step. Parliament is not disbanded, Parliament votes every 2 weeks, as far as I know and the Staff also makes decisions every 2 weeks, for which so much skepticism towards HS, but also for Croatian citizens, Croatian people and even initiatives for the referendum are also immediately rejected. And they say it's not necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95091	Dear Representative Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95092	Thank you. I agree with you. Here, we still live in a young democracy. We still need to learn democracy. Unfortunately, through the operation of the Staff, we often return to some dark times from which we succeeded in '91. come out that one body or set of 2 to 3 persons in that same body, past the quorum, makes decisions limiting the freedom of citizens, and that these decisions have often not been justified in the current epidemiological situation in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry we haven't discussed this right here before, so let the citizens see. Whoever thinks who supports these decisions and let the citizens decide who will be responsible for the further fight against Covida-19.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95093	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95094	The basic problem of our society is now crystallized at the time of this crisis, which there are those to which a permanent state of emergency corresponds. And why do they have a permanent state of emergency? Because if the regular situation comes, then there's a possibility that their crime will be prosecuted. In a permanent state of emergency, these topics fall into a different plan and are therefore forced to assume the role and competence of the Parliament. But I'll ask you something else. When I asked Minister Berosa about why the Staff was forced as an expert body when more economists, lawyers, and even seismologists, than doctors of medicine, he answered me with a scandalous statement that the Staff did not even meet in full. Is it even legal and his decisions that came out of his meeting? Where's that quorum? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How's it going? It is possible to decide in such a way [[Intruder: Dear, Honored Pavliček.]] about democracy? [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95095	Yeah, here's what I was talking about in the presentation. Well, in Croatia, obviously anything is possible. In Croatia it is possible to have a body that has made 474 decisions in the last two years, and it is very likely that no decision has been taken by quorum but at level 2 to 3 of which some are not members of the Staff but are associated members. It just shows what kind of system we live in and that unfortunately, I agree with you that through this very fear and the spread of this extraordinary state individuals try to keep in power or hide the corrupt actions of certain people, especially at the very top of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95096	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A few words and what our colleague Pavlichek suggested. The headquarters of civil protection functioned in exactly the same way in all the crises so far, and regardless of who was in power, it was the headquarters in Gunja, it was a migrant headquarters or any other way, so it was all defined as who are members of the headquarters long before this crisis on covid, exactly according to the difolt written by the director of HZJZ, whoever it was. The composition of the headquarters is determined by the Staff Regulations, modes of operation and conditions for the appointment of the Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs and Civil Protection Staff at all levels and has appointed representatives who propose heads of state bodies and institutions, or all others who are precisely defined by the Regulation as to who they are. Because of all of this, we cannot talk about headquarters as a political body because it is simply not true. And today, the members of some appointed headquarters are not members of any party, and even one party is a member of the other party if you are going to go all political. Because of all this, we can't talk about it. All members of the headquarters are in it for their expertise and knowledge so that they can respond in due time to any possible crisis. Of course, if an economist is appointed, he has his place there because he was appointed in front of the Ministry of Finance who needs to pay for all this together. If a transporter is appointed, you spoke of a traffic expert, but he was named because we needed transport, for example, by train, not for that reason, but he was an integral part of that headquarters. What was specific about so-called. Covid-19 crisis is that it was a global pandemic and a national epidemic that literally paralyzed the whole world and led to major changes in all segments of society. Accordingly, HS voted in favour of the majority of the votes of all MPs of the Civil Protection Complementary System, which was authorised by the Civil Protection Staff to significantly disrupt the environment, economic activity or cause significant material damage to the Civil Protection Staff and instructions, we will return to them in particular, which are carried out by civil protection units of local and regional (regional) self-government. We must all agree that the covid crisis has completely changed the way of life, but that the measures taken by the civil protection headquarters, although some believe that they were restrictive, have always been balanced between the least possible restrictions on freedom and to protect the legitimate objective of protecting people's life and health and that the health system can function. How much civil protection headquarters could weigh and professionally consider making such decisions is best stated by the fact that during the two years of the crisis, the civil protection headquarters made as many as 450 decisions and 3,000 instructions. It will talk about how we would work if you would accept what you are, which means that one and a half of us would have to discuss it one and a half days in the assembly. Try to visualize it. It also says that the proposal by the distinguished parliamentary representative, Marija Pavliček, would be effective if the decisions and instructions of the civil protection headquarters came into force after having been confirmed by HS was actually inconclusive in practice. In fact, if each of these 450 decisions and 3,000 instructions had been discussed or waited for an HS session, it would have been a matter of protecting people's lives and health, and that certainly wasn't the goal and intention of those who worked on it. It should also be pointed out that in a number of its decisions, the Constitutional Court stressed that the fact that civil protection headquarters has legal authority to take measures does not mean that its decisions are not subject to the control of legislation, executive and judicial authorities, and that such decisions do not confirm HS. That doesn't mean that headquarters decisions aren't subject to control by anyone who thinks they're in danger. In HS among distinguished colleagues, it's your thesis, the MPs, there are five Dr.scs among us. psychiatry, five interns, one anesthesiologist, one physicist, one surgeon who, by your side, is competent as an epidemiologist who, by the way, is the same doctor, you said that we have one doctor and one epidemiologist, the epidemiologist is the same doctor, so now which one of these are we going to choose to present here the attitude of the profession? We are doctors who rule our fields of work, but surely we are not epidemiologists. The Civil Protection Centre as a competent body supported by the profession and science is simply more qualified to assess whether there is a need for a covid measure. I would also like to tell you here that all those appointed to civil protection headquarters according to the rules of their institutions, so I will tell you that in the Ministry of Health there is a Health Ministry crisis headquarters that works according to a regulation published in the National Journal, where all those other experts who need to give a subport to a colleague who is at headquarters so that they can make decisions and so an expert group is made by voting which then presents the profession at headquarters, the national headquarters. We are currently in a more peaceful period as far as the covid measures are concerned, at least as far as the burden of the health system is concerned, but in the world of experience we must not forget how quickly it can be changed, nor can it be said that we no longer need quick decisions. Before the omicron we thought, let's split up let's end it, it won't be so and hop here's a new shape. And then the measures had to be made differently because he had completely different characteristics than he had the previous example we talked about. Co-ordinated role of Command, you need everyone in this Command. Everyone in that headquarters has a place. When it comes to everything that the state has yet, except for the health care system, let's say a little bit about the economy. The tourist season has brought us a very good result. And you know why? Because co-ordinated in all segments, this part was led by Minister Brnjak, who is a resort, the school was led by their representative in the Stoger, who was in charge of the school, a respected secretary of state, and that is how it works. It's the only way to respond to a crisis. Like you think it's done, it's not true. I would like to mention once again that there is also a representative of the Croatian Fire Department, the State Hydrometeorological Institute, they are very much in need of you. You know what they're in, say, the key to this answer, God forbid a nuclear disaster? In the expansion of the wind of the clouds, what kind of radiological cloud is moving, and all of these are components of the Staff that contribute to the unique coordination of this Headquarters through various systems. I'm running out of time, and I'm just going to find out that I'm hoping that I've been able to explain to you that it's really not possible for all the measures of this thing that you've been talking about, so everything that you've said here, and yours is literally saying that decisions and instructions are made in HS, it's not feasible in practice. I'm a practitioner, and I know for a fact that it can't work. That's what I'm going to stand for and for that reason and all of these reasons that I really tried to explain to you, I'm sorry we didn't explain it on one coffee, and not that we're all sitting here together at all, and with sadness I have to realize that a lot of people, a lot of people you actually signed on that list, are, unfortunately, not present here. That's what I'm saying, I'm sorry so that they actually hear everything I had to say and for that reason we won't support your proposal to amend and supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95098	Thank you very much. I see that several MPs have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In which the Rules of Procedure was injured, the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95099	Art. 238, not only is it offensive but the scandalous demeaning of all parliamentary deputies that a parliamentary representative from Club Mosta suggests that legal changes that need to be regulated by the way the pandemic works are discussed on coffee while the debate on the same issues in the Assembly is considered a waste of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95100	Well, of course, it was a replica, uh, and your attitude, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95101	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, counterpart Grba Bunjevic injured all parliamentary deputies who were paid to work and debate in HS, not to sit in cafes and coffee bars and discuss such important topics. I'm here to discuss at HS, and later, we can have coffee and talk about football. We need to talk about these topics here. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95102	Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, it was also a replica, so you get a warning. Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95103	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Art. 238, a colleague comes from a party that, according to all indicators, does not respect democracy. This has shown with direct democracy and relations to referendums, you are showing it today for this speaker when you think that we are all sitting here without any need to talk about something that took away the freedoms and rights of Croatian citizens during the pandemic from your political partnership called the Civil Protection Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95104	Of course, it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95105	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, the common sense here is belittled. So every child, a colleague of Grba Buljevic knows that winds blow from the west to the east, you don't need a meteorologist, so in Stožer, don't disrespect the common sense of Croatian citizens, these questions should be discussed in the Parliament, not in the birts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95106	Yeah. And of course it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Boric, did you also express your desire to harm the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95107	Thank you very much. I will. Well, here, clean this one, Art. 238, about what my colleague litre said about who he sells democracy to, and here, looking at this bill in two articles, I think that in this period of time from proposing itself to discussing more changes through democratic processes, more has come to the Club of Sovereigns than is likely to do when we talk about decision-making. Some promoters have disappeared, some have been expelled, so here, about democracy, don't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95108	Okay. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, so you get a warning. This, distinguished representative, Selak Rasdic, you have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95109	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. Here, yes, some colleagues have disappeared from the Sovereign Club unlike colleagues from HDZ who were taken by the DORH. And more HDZ will take the DORH and so far in history has taken her away than ever a colleague from other clubs will be able to disappear in any form of political change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95110	Okay. It's this one, of course,... It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're getting a second warning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take care of that. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act proposed by MP Pavliček, Pavliček, in one part, is on the trail of what we have been talking about in the last two years about what the decision-making process should look like in the pandemic, but it is, in fact, deviating from what we have been saying. We believe that there should be a body that has the power to make emergency decisions that would come into effect immediately, and that the second question is the issue of control and the legality and effectiveness of those decisions. We have proposed in many cases proposing amendments to the Civil Protection Act by the Government and certain amendments. Among other things, the Government has powers, not the Staff and other proposals at some point because we felt at that point that the situation was such, that it deserved it. As for the draft law in the urgent procedure and as it is in our Rules of Procedure, as far as this is concerned, interesting and procedural outsmartation and possible to make amendments to this bill, which should then be obvious, the SDP Club will give an amendment to this bill, in fact, since the law has one article, we will write a new law, or a new article which will essentially go to leave the decisions of St. 1 to come into effect when the decision maker says they are to enter into force, and what would ensure that certain parliamentary controls of those decisions are not valid for them to be at least 60 days, and that they are to be made known during that period by the competent parent body of HS, so that they do not go to the plenary session in the debate. I think that in this way we would satisfy everything that colleagues from the ruling majority say should have a decision-making body, and on the other hand, we would also satisfy the need for a parliamentary debate on individual decisions. Not in a way to be at the plenary session, but in a way that discusses these decisions, the parent body of HS within 60 days. I think it's an appropriate time limit for some decisions from the Staff to last less than 60 days in that case. Those that need to last longer, to be discussed in a given format and to get parliamentary confirmation. That's how we see at this point that it should look and that it would satisfy two opposing, and yet for the benefit of citizens, an equal goal. One is, therefore, that we have a body that can make a decision immediately and that in this sense the urgency of action is satisfied, and that within one reasonable time, which we think is enough for 2 months, the other body will discuss and evaluate both the correctness and legality of those decisions. Basically, most decisions would probably support the HS's working body unanimously, and those around which there would be disagreements between the parliamentary majority and the opposition or part of the opposition would not, but would probably also appear in the HS. In this regard, depending on the position of the motionor on our amendment, our position on the law will also depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95112	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95113	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Associates. My colleagues and colleagues. This super professional body called the Staff has made over 400 decisions, some of which were extremely problematic and many of which were completely illogical, and I'm going to give you just one. At one point, you had to have a mask at the store, and you didn't have to have a mask at the restaurant. So then you came to the gas station to pour fuel and when you went to pay for it, you had to have a mask, although this kind of plexiglas between you and the cashier, and then you went 2 meters away to the catering facility, coloquially you'd say, a coffee shop on that same gas station, took off the mask, walked, sat down, were in there for an hour, two, three, five, how long did you have without a mask to drink coffee, juice or whatever it was for you to make a decision that would prevent the spread of the virus? It's one of those over 400 decisions made by that super expert headquarters. According to a report in this House, in the last 4 months of 2021, 262 166 infected with Covid were treated at home. That's 98%, 2% was hospitalized. That's the kind of disease we're talking about. 98% are being treated at home, not in hospital, not in intensive care, at home. So that's the way it is, and everything we've been through in these two years is talking about the preparedness of our health system. I can only say, not God's greater trouble because if 2% of the infected are treated in the hospital and it's a huge burden on our health system, so what if there was a more fatal disease? And this super professional headquarters where, behold, a meteorologist sits to tell us what every child who attends, say the upper grade of primary school, which is that the winds blow from the west to the east, Croatia is at the very top of the number of deaths per million inhabitants, 1600 more per million inhabitants we are worse than the EU average. At the top of the world by the number of deaths, this is the result of this super professional headquarters that you've been praising so much and which has been managing our lives for two years. And don't tell me that the Croatian Parliament is not more competent, so here I am now watching only the HDZ side see enough doctors who can tell if some measures were right or wrong. And I'll just tell you what Mr. Ivica Luksic, director of KB Dubrava, said, which is the reason for this great mortality. Late arrival at the hospital, 7 days, when antiviral drugs no longer work. Those are his words, not mine, I quote, his words. The study also conducted by HZJZ showed that 11% of healthcare professionals who received 2 doses of the vaccine were infected and spread the infection in hospitals because of the famous Covid certificates, because if you have vaccinated times you do not have Covid to be tested, you are entering the hospital, in retirement homes wherever all those who are extremely endangered groups are. Also in this 4 month period, HALMED received 1270 reports of adverse reactions to vaccines that were approved for 437 serious and 11 were reported for fatal vaccines. So all you've been telling us for two years is nothing but some mantra of some truth of yours and I don't see any reason to make all these big decisions. of which many recommendations are not confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95114	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95115	Thank you. Dear colleagues Vucilović would like to commend this initiative of Croatian sovereigns, we have been on the same track since the beginning, and you and we have therefore been around the action of this compromised headquarters itself. And what I want to point out, and what might have fallen somehow into another plan with these developments surrounding Russia's aggression against Ukraine. This is that the Constitutional Court has brought down the request of the opposition representatives for the assessment of the constitutionality of Covid's certificate and you know that with which explanation. That there's no guarantee that two-thirds of the majority would be achieved in the meeting for the adoption of measures. It is a scandalous decision of the Constitutional Court which, in fact, was annulled by the Croatian Constitution and Article 17. Tomorrow it may occur to us that when there is no agreement on the election of constitutional judges that the Constitutional Court also tells friends from Branko Bačić and the godmothers that HDZs with 76 hands can choose the judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95116	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95117	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The fact is that the Constitutional Court often makes decisions that are least questionable. What we have seen is the fact that even this, such a Constitutional Court, has said that these decisions made by this superstructure headquarters cannot be made without an explanation. So they have to explain. Even so, they had to say what we all know is that most of these decisions are both illogical and simple in some even elements and unimplementable. And I'm happy to see my colleague Selak Rasdic and I have received students who opposed the introduction of Covid certificates that some universities introduced, and even this Constitutional Court said that universities have no right to ask students to do so. So there's a shift. They're walking in mice' footsteps, but unfortunately, fortunately, they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95118	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95119	So here to continue on this topic, there's so much that we really need to touch here, and it's important. So what did the Constitutional Court do? He abolished his decision when we talk about students of social discrimination, that inequality that they pay for their testing unlike professors. But he confirmed the epidemiological indifference or discrimination that students, adults don't have to be tested when attending colleges because they're obviously not an epidemiological threat, and some who work in public administration or those same teachers in the same classroom have to. What does that mean? Just one thing. That the measures from the beginning were uncanny, illogical and exclusively political, so please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95120	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95121	Thank you, dear colleague Selak Rasputich, not that they were, they were illogical from the very beginning. So remember the very beginnings of the 29 infected we closed down the entire state, banned people from going out of their municipality, out of town, and what fellow Pavicek meant from the Lower Motikina you couldn't go to because they were two municipalities, there's no pharmacy, there's no home health, there's nothing, there's no such thing as to make it impossible for people to have a normal course of life not to say that even in the city of Osijek they've raised drones and they've been filming, watch out for how many threats there were fundamental human rights and violations of the Constitution, where people in their homes in the courtyards, did they now come out, did they respect me not know what they were, so even the Constitutional Court said there were some ilities, but the ilities remain still true. Because if you freed the students, then you have to. and all those who go into the city after confirmation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95122	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95123	Dear colleagues, 474 decisions were made by this famous headquarters, all signed by the Chief of Staff and then the same commander was taken in the Spaladium Arena without a mask on his face surrounded by his closest associates 20 to 30 centimeters away, violating decisions he himself made and signed. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95124	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95125	And as soon as the election of the virus is discussed, dear colleague Pavlikek disappears. Just remember HDZ headquarters on election night, not the distance, not the mask, nothing, they hug, they kiss, people are happy, so it's nice, but that's why at all the other gatherings, where the HDZ is out there, but if they get together someone else there has to be a little different. Inconsistencies, inconsistency, I will not mention Minister Beros who loves the hand of Nina Badric in a very close association, etc., there was a lack of logic, there were violations of those same measures by those who prescribed these same measures, penalties to our peasants who exported the barn to the field, on the other hand, President Milanovic goes to the famous one as they called it club, that basement birdium during the lockdown and no one at all. Why didn't he get a ticket?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95126	Thank you. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95127	My colleague Vucimilović, you have indeed presented in this exhibition the best possible way to the Croatian public to all of our colleagues and colleagues in the assembly all the arguments why this should be brought down, why it should be amended, you have given such clear and plastic descriptions of all the illogicalities, all the illegalities, all the immorality and actions of the headquarters of that civil protection that I believe that we and the ruling majority will get a few hands and achieve our goal of abolishing it. And now I'm asking you, actually, when I analyzed how terrible there was in the earthquake, we had two earthquakes, these measures were to the extent that they were closed, we forgot that in the first moments the stores were closed you, those terrible monsters, the stores for the construction this, for the repair of the houses in Markushevec and Zagreb, and so in Sisak it was. Well, then, now please define what to say to the children in that whole. [[Employee: Thank you, esteemed representative, thank you, thank you very much, esteemed representative]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95128	Thank you very much. Please don't, look, if everyone goes on as long as you are then it's no longer a democracy or if I deny the other what you've allowed yourself to eat. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95129	Thank you, dear fellow Sacic. The fact is, there was too much illogicality, 2. This super professional headquarters controls our lives, limits our rights, freedom, freedom of movement, and it simply has to stop. We can meet in a crisis like this again, very quickly, what are we going to have again the headquarters of two men who will then decide everything? Did you fight for such democracy in the '90s? Did I fight for such democracy in Osijek during the '90s? I didn't. You know what democracy is. If parliament is in session, if the assembly is sitting all the time there is no reason to make decisions, and the good part was only recommendations, it does not confirm in HS. Let us not underestimate, so we were chosen by men, we are the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95130	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95131	Thank you very much. My colleague Vucilović, here I have listened to your debate as many of these today on this subject and it seems more to me that it is someone evoking memories and memories of what we went through in 2.g. Who has seen Nina, who has seen I do not know the Throat that she does not wear a mask or a Mrs. Caroline, who was doing a political career in not wearing a mask in the assembly but should bring some purpose. I don't see here purposes other than not to wind up those individuals or parties in the media space, so that today we're talking this way. I really don't see it because what did you suggest? You have suggested that most of the HS if I understand this article reaffirms the decisions it has made legally and the headquarters means everything we have prescribed through the system, from local to regional headquarters. These headquarters and their membership are not questioned except for this one above, so I don't understand why we would now have to confirm twice the same decision when we made the decision and empowered people to make these decisions on behalf of the people and on behalf of this assembly through the laws against which you were against both the first and the second. You forgot that, so what are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95132	Thank you, thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95133	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95134	Yeah, forgive my colleague, Grmoy, since I didn't realize there might be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, the Honorable representative of the Grmoy has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95135	He's been injured. In 238, therefore, if someone did not adhere to the measures prescribed by the governing majority and headquarters, then it is not a problem in what I did or did but rather what those who prescribed the measures did or did not do. Just ask yourself, the people know well what you did and how the measures were worth when it was right for you, and when you festivaled your electoral victories or were on the Pelješje Bridge, the measures were not worth it, nor was isolation worth it for the Hrebaca.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95136	Of course it was a replica, so you get a warning. Honorable representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95137	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, counterpart Boris insults the HS institution because he says he does not see any political purpose to discuss something the headquarters has already confirmed. This same headquarters all that he brought and confirmed brought a quorum past the quorum in agreement 2 to 3 persons. Have the 27 members of headquarters met at each decision? No, they're not. Were the decisions made by ad hoc? They did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95138	Thank you, of course, and it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Boric, do you also insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95139	It's because my colleague Bolly insulted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95140	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95141	Art. 238, because I'm telling the truth, he's not telling the truth. Yesterday, his one representative here spoke for five minutes about how he did not respect the headquarters's decisions and how they wrote him large sentences and that he now has a problem with how he would pay them, and he talked about it for 5 minutes. So this is your colleague, not me, and I can only mention certain examples that were there and everyone remembers them. So let those who tell the truth judge, let them judge the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95142	A colleague, Boric, and it was a replica, and you get two warnings. I'm happy to note that there are already a few MPs who have two warnings. Please, let's not wage this war with false violations of the Rules of Procedure. Reply to the replica of the respected MP Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95143	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, you know as they say, God has given us forget to bear reality and I understand that as a Christian, but I have to remember how we lived for two years and what was at the beginning and what were all the measures. And I'm very sorry that you don't see the point of parliamentary democracy in which we live. I will always stand for the role of the Croatian Parliament that belongs to it, which was assigned to it, and besides that we are chosen here by the people, not the Staff. We've been chosen. We are the voice of the people, and the people have given us trust in the elections, and we must not flee from that obligation. It's a responsibility, a commitment, but it's also a right. And so we have to consume it, we can't run away from it in cases of crisis or when it's good, or when it's bad. I'm sorry you don't understand, but you will understand. I trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95144	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95145	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I'm surprised some previous MPs passed the law just like this, and we've been supplementing the Civil Protection Act, but I'm surprised you're also belittle meteorologists who are part of this Joint Chief, so I'm wondering if their function is just that and if that's all they know about blowing the wind, and you say they're blowing the storm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95146	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95147	Thank you, colleague Peric. I wouldn't dare disrespect any profession. If I respect anything, it's a profession, and I've been on the line my whole life, but I had to react to your colleague Grba Bujevic's statement that seemed to me kind of demeaning them. I believe meteorologists are supposed to be at headquarters probably, but not to tell us where the wind's blowing from. I know where the storms come from, from land to sea, of course, south from sea to land, but that's not the point of this debate. And we know how the wind blows as we look at the headquarters's decisions when the measures are being tempered, then the elections are probably close, and that's how the HDZ fits, and when the measures are tightened, then the situation is a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95148	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the honourable representative Erik Fabianic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95149	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will really try to be extremely constructive. I'm going to take this subject as a cause which is related to the amendments to the Civil Protection System Act. It's highly constructive but in a way that I'm going to use this pay phone to warn for the fifth time about one fact that hasn't changed and I'm not going to tell it the truth, I'm going to read the truth. Therefore, in that part of the law that it prescribes, the Civil Protection System Act, which prescribes the material rights of mobilised members, which is Article 45, states that the Civil Protection Mandatory has the right to compensation for wages and travel expenses. In the next paragraph, paragraph 5 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is laying down a regulation on this and that is the fact. It is also a fact that the government regulation that has prescribed this since 2017 and that it has not been updated to date, while members of civil protection therefore fall within the Ministry of the Interior system 2019 in particular 29.11. They are coordinated through the supplement, the second addition to the collective contract of the journal and the material rights of the members, so that the MUP and civil protection, but only in that part of the people in the working relationship, so the professional in civil protection has the right to a daily of 200 kuna and a mobilized member on a 150 kuna daily. The Civil Protection System shall provide transport to immobilised members. If he cannot be provided with transportation then he has the right to compensation for what is the cheapest means of transport, and if he does not have the cheapest means of transport, then unlike his fellow professionals, he does not have the right to two kunas per km, but imagine even 75 limes. I have repeatedly pointed out this right behind this speaker at the end of my debate when there was a vote of confidence on the government's programme for this term of office. I once took advantage of it when there was also a item on the agenda relating to the regulations adopted by the Government and twice in amendments to the Civil Protection Act, twice. I ask you nicely from the parliamentary majority to write it down and invite your prime minister to call a meeting and stop this discrimination and mistreatment if we go to see the legal category on the Labour Act regarding the mobilised members, and some report eventually and voluntarily. That's what I witnessed just as the Corona crisis began because I also reminded the location of civil protection where the entrance to the city of Rijeka was ultimately controlled. This is particularly true in the case of charging stations on the highway Rijeka – Zagreb in a location called Betongrad, in which it was otherwise in the early 1990s it was a mobilization site of mine, our 128 brigade. Why do I say ours? Because it belonged to her as chief of state and Secretary of State, Mr. Plazonic, here's a little something to remember. So once again I use this pay phone and I appeal, I really appeal to it, to do it, to do it for everyone's sake, because here the question of consensus is crucial. If we could unite around Ukraine, we could unite around these fees, transportation fees. I'm just kidding. The fact is that, and what the proposal is, the amendments to the law, one great question about how much it is, how applicable it is. Maybe not at the state level because here we are all parliamentary representatives of the de facto who would really and are available to the state 365 days a year, but we need to know that there are analogies with headquarters at local, local level. So these civil protection logs are also paid by the county if they're mobilized by the county, paid by the city if they're paid by the city. So it's not like it's all going to the burden of the state, nor would it be any expense, but I've been discussing it before the first earthquake, and it didn't happen. We had pandemics, it was, it was also, it was a fact at that time. So we are united around Ukraine, but we are not about civil protection, but as I would say and point to the fact that if we are looking for analogy on which city and municipal council this will be sitting and making decisions on a proposal for civil protection headquarters at the local level, I am not sure that it will work however much as my colleague Arsen Bauk would like to fix. Here, I'll conclude, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95150	Thank you. Now again, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95151	Let's re-establish the material. The Centre of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia is a political body appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and consists in accordance with the Civil Protection Act of 27 persons of various professions and very likely experts in their business and top experts in their business, but not all of them are professional at present regarding the covida-19. Take it easy. And what is the worst of those decisions that this headquarters has made, as the Republic of Croatia has decided here, must be made by a half-dozen majority. Since the 474 decision, I say responsibly, it probably did not consist of 473 times in its full number. Decisions have been made, you know that, and we know that, at the level of the agreement of 2 to 3 members of the staff plus 2 associated members and become valid in accordance with the law that HS has made, but are decisions valid unless they have been made in the parent body by a half majority? Let's not play democracy. counterpart Grba Bujevic says even one member of the headquarters is not, is a member of another political option, so I want to kiss you and congratulate you. Even one member of the headquarters is other political options, and even in the time of the former state, there were people in the bodies who were not members of the Communist Party, congratulations. But it is very important throughout the story that decisions were made often, very often in line with HDZ's interest. Well, look, you had your first case on February 25th when we didn't know how the virus would behave, you didn't make a single decision in almost a month because you waited for the internal elections in HDZ to go through. We had pictures of people coming to your party rooms one to the other two inches away. When it went past, March 15, when you got the new leadership then 4 days later you made everything and that restrictive decision, primarily the ban on gathering more than 5 people, the social distance of 2 meters, the ban on crossing the border, you closed half of the state, until then the health of the nation did not matter, at that moment the only interest of HDZ was in the first place and should be said openly, so it was. The headquarters, unfortunately, often made decisions in accordance with the interests of the ruling party and, of course, thanks to the covidu-19 and the famous statement that we won the crown, the ruling party won the elections and that is also a fact and Minister Willy Beros was the savior of Croatia. Later, the same minister unfortunately does not respect the decisions he himself made and his famous headquarters. She has a very good-looking thing, and that's what's credible, that slogan that exactly HDZ often uses. This headquarters is all just untrustworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95152	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95153	Here's a quote. We call on the Assembly Committee on Health who kicks and without any initiative to watch what happens, to join at least some useful meetings and suggestions to fight the pandemic. In particular, it comes into the eyes of a former member of the National Crisis Staff of Maja Grba Bujević, who we have seen and listened to in the media recently, and since she entered the assembly and became the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health has completely disappeared from the media space, according to the Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors. So is it precisely a colleague of Grba Bujević who should point out that there is no link between politics and headquarters, one who has struck the foundations and the intrinsic pillars and the unbreakable and eternal ties when we talk about HDZ and all other institutions it manages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95154	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95155	Thank you. And I'm a member of the Assembly Health Committee where I just think the HDZ has come up with an observation that this committee too often convenes thematic sessions, you know, too often thematic sessions are called and I can't figure it out, here's what I can't figure out, and that statement that we'd better have coffee out there and talk about these topics. I came here to fight for the interest of Croatian people and Croatian citizens like you all and you have no reason to be afraid of Croatian citizens, so they chose you for God's sake. Why are you afraid of them? Why are you afraid of the referendum? Let the people decide. There are times past when a political click needs to be feared by its own people. The only thing to fear is if she's born from that same people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95156	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95157	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavlichek. 30 years of Croatian independence, and fear of the people so strong and so strong, not only from the people, but also from the MPs, or parliamentary representatives. So I have to ask my colleagues from the ruling majority, so look at this left-hand side of the assembly, what are you afraid of? Well, they're going to raise your hand for it obviously because you see that they're not interested in this debate at all, if they were asked, they'd introduce even harder, even more stringent measures than the Staff introduced them. However, regardless, you will not allow HS to discuss measures that have controlled the lives of Croatian citizens for 2 years, regardless of how obvious it is that you will get most of every decision in this HS so that you can lock us up and count how many people in the houses there are, I believe that the team from We can immediately raise hands for such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95158	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95159	I'm not afraid of my people, I've never been afraid, and I'm the only one in charge of my people and my voters like all of us here. But what I would also like to say, I have no problem and say when something good is done. But the biggest problem of the Staff is that you never wanted to admit your mistakes, but nobody can ever convince me that the Chief of Staff, who does not adhere to the measures he himself has taken, is at least not told to the Croatian citizens afterwards. That's where he falls for the exam, the very simple exam falls, and what picture are we sending to society? On the one hand, my son, who was in the 1st grade of the primary school, had to wear a face-to-face mask, and on the other hand, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Milanovic were photographed in Varazdin and hugged without a mask on their face. So what picture are we sending to our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95160	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95161	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavliček, it is clear that the ruling does not want to discuss this topic that you have initiated, for which you have collected signatures and put it on the agenda, and why do they not want to discuss this issue? Well, because the signing of the Zagreb Fair began on Friday, and it was clear after 2 days that there was more than enough signatures, that with all their restrictions and rigorous approach to counting could not bring down the referendum, and then on Monday, Bozinovic made a decision to partially abolish Covid's confirmation, in the wake of this crisis around Ukraine. And no medium has published it. 7 days ago from the cover we had Slovenia abolished Covid's certificates, abolished in Croatia, nothing. And this team here, colleague Vucilovic said something, so that, it's totalitarians, they'd lock us in the basements, these from We Can. We know what the measures are, so that's, that's the same team of HDZ and we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95162	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95163	Here, God will give, there will be a crisis in Ukraine, but Croatia will remain in its problems. Croatia will continue to be unfortunately in its mud of corruption, which for years unfortunately cannot come out. And it is unfortunately a picture and an opportunity for Croatia, and so today Croatia has 400 thousand people less. Not because someone can't find a job, there is today, thank God business in Croatia, but because people don't like injustice, and injustice happens every day. Every day at the highest level. And those who need to be held accountable get more protection from the prime minister. And that's why people leave you. And that's why we're here. We're here. We're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95164	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95165	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You keep pointing out that Staff is a political body. And I have to tell you, the law states who enters the Staff as representatives of certain institutions who need to give pain to the work of the Staff. If your option ever wins power, the composition of the Staff will probably be different than it is today because some other people will be headed by some of these institutions that go into the Staff by default. That's one thing. It's another thing. As for the legality of the decisions, all of you, all of you who are proposing first of all, making decisions here in the Staff, are plagued by the fact that, in the Parliament, we have decided to apply art. 16 The Constitution, not 17. The Constitutional Court itself has told you that it is the right of HS and that we have defined ourselves as we thought it was right at this point and that it is more functional. All decisions are legal because the Staff makes those measures prescribed in the law So, like everything else that's being implemented under the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95166	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95167	Dear colleagues, I keep saying that the Chief of Staff is making decisions at the level of the agreement of two to three people. Of the 27 members of the Stožer and 2 associated members, Stožer makes decisions at the meeting level, probably Minister Bozinovic, Minister Beros, counterpart Capak and possibly another person. I can't be told by anyone in the Staff that the Headquarters has been meeting over 400 times to make all those decisions, even if it's online, that's the problem. And as for the political body, he's a political body. Look, I was part of the executive government in the city of Vukovar. We had 8 leaders, two political options were in power, a colleague of Penava and a Croatian sovereign. And you know how many members of the political options, of them 8? Only two, six weren't members of any political option, there's a difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95168	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95169	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavliček, first of all, let's say some things about you looking back at the beginning of the pandemic, so you were then the mayor of the city of Vukovar, probably then the mayor authorized you to lead the headquarters, were such decisions and no one was sure to enter into who Marijan Pavliček or who he was, and then he wrote and who could be in that membership, so that you do not question something that is clear when the day is. Secondly, as far as your untruth is concerned, we've held internal elections, and then we've introduced measures, just to remind ourselves. The first case, 25.2., then several cases a day, the first death in the Republic of Croatia, followed by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb. All of this certainly wasn't planned, nor did we want it to happen, so that we do or don't do these internal elections, and the difference between HDZ and all of you is that you can make choices in the living room, we have to make choices on the whole ground, and that's how we function, and everything you said in that direction is a big lie, and it's intentional... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95170	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95171	I come to believe your word as to what the measure concerns when the entire Croatian public knows that it has been quite a wait for the internal elections to pass. The truth is, the dates confirm it, so you waited for all 15 to pass, to choose a new leadership and then more, after that, the interest of HDZ was fulfilled, and then it was important to the health of the nation. [[Blows off the bench: It's not true]] It's a fact of fact, you can kill it all you want, as many members as you have, so you don't even know yourself, you said 200,000 yourself, I don't know how many of them you have, thank God they're all alive and healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95172	A representative of Vucilović has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95173	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. 238, demeaning absolutely all MPs, all parties, but I can only tell you that you will soon be leading the internal elections in Remetec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95174	Of course you're going to get a warning about this one, but please, I don't know which times we don't, let's not make war with these false violations of the Rules of Procedure. There's an opportunity to speak as much as possible. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95175	I agree with my colleague Vucilović, perhaps not so harshly, perhaps we should consider these spatial frames. If they say that the current parties are staying in the living room I'm afraid that if the DORH continues to do this work as it does so far that everything that has in HDZ will stop not in one living room but perhaps in one toilet, but hopefully the old-fashioned one who has a window for ventilation due to epidemiological measures, of course. So there's a lot to talk about today, but the key political message that I want to send is that this issue of civil protection headquarters and decision-making in crisis, which is the issue behind this issue of the work of this assembly, which is persistently ignored as a key body in the country, is a matter that concerns us very much because unfortunately we are on the verge of another extraordinary situation. On that trail, what I'm going to point out here is that the HDZ is responding to the state of emergency because the real question is not whether the headquarters but as far as headquarters is concerned, if there is an end to the headquarters, if the covid is confirmed, if the masks are lifted in schools, when the headquarters is lifted, if the headquarters is ever lifted, or if today, regardless of the fact that our prime minister is obviously the only one in the state who knows the army is not raised up on high alert, we raise another headquarters to move from one headquarters to another, we know that we can and leave the same people, but it is not the waist that determines that the headquarters will function and continue to be a permanent emergency. And there's only one requirement in the functioning of the state in that state of emergency, and he's saying that those regular issues about crime are not being put on the agenda because I'm quoting our prime minister, he's got better things to do, he's got better things to do. So when we talk about what headquarters brings us, then we need to know that today we are fully aware of the seriousness of the attack on European soil and this Ukrainian crisis we are at the threshold of maybe even in the Republic of Croatia, we will activate them safely for humanitarian purposes if not in our own and here we are again to the state of emergency that is still in force today, and that is that all the goods that are being purchased for this crisis, and probably for the one that continues, goes beyond the public procurement and it is secret. Well, we are colleagues and colleagues very likely, given the help we want as citizens of the Republic of Ukraine and given what God does not give us, if the crisis spills over to the wider European soil, given who is on the verge of another big robbery. Who controls and who controls the same stock? They are the ones that feed the headquarters, and we know that, in the ordinary circumstances of the goods for them, we know that he's a covid, we've talked about the report relating to the stockpiles, we know that the covid was an excuse not to carry out the control of the department of goods supplies at the time of the pandemic, so no one else has learned the meaning of HDZ's people yet learned what, that even in the Republic they can be guilty if something goes wrong, so they have a new tactics, that they don't even check what's going on anymore. So no one's in charge, that there's no command responsibility for what anyone took in stock or anywhere else. So, the issue of Croatia's headquarters is primarily the issue of those who want a permanent state of emergency without dealing with crime in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why today we are aware of this crisis which Europe is entering into, we must all discuss together the rights of the Staff and return democracy, control and control to the Republic of Croatia through its legitimately elected representatives. When we talk about a proposal that came from a club of sovereigns that we support because here the content of this proposal is important, not just which one of us will point. It is important that someone points as soon as possible and restores power to the Croatian Parliament. I will mention that we are within this referendum which is constantly ignored and which is trying to extend to the extent that it becomes irrelevant, and I will point out once again it is very important because there will be a crisis in which we will try to overcome democracy in the Republic of Croatia through such imposed decisions. The question that we have raised within this referendum for which we have gathered the required number of votes, which is well known to the ruling majority already today, which has prompted the covid's confirmations to fall by whisper Monday, which was so unspeakable to exploit the loss of a nation, the Ukrainian people, in order to achieve petty political profit. But not only that, but even endangering the rights and ways of the lives of our citizens who didn't realize that the covid of the confirmation had been abolished because your Minister of the Interior couldn't do that sentence and when he lifted them from their mouths, he said a decision was lifted, so let the citizens wonder. Who knows how many of them rushed for another test before someone informed them about what was evident and what was supposed to be his only political message, which is that those certificates were abolished. So that's what you did. You did it because you knew on Friday both Saturday and Sunday that there was a required number of signatures. It is to us, however, that I will mention less, because the most important thing was to confirm it as soon as possible and let it go. Because not only did they not use it, but they were harmful, and that was talked about enough. But what I want to point out is that the question that we have raised with this referendum concerns precisely the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases where the words of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia are deleted in Article 1(7). The second part of the question referred to transitional and final provisions and to the abolition of the decision on the so-called Covid's certificates. The first question was, of course, the constitutional referendum and that we must decide together by a two-thirds majority. Now I'm not sure if we'd really be able to get that most of them to make sure that they'd even start deciding because we see that some colleagues, let's say from Green-Left Block, when the topic disappears from the cover and their interest disappears, and then we'll listen in propaganda to how the most active and the most serious club in the Parliament is. However, it is very important not only that we decide in the assembly, but that the more important decisions are made that directly affect the health and lives of our citizens. When we said we wanted to wipe out the Civil Protection Staff in making decisions to protect the public from infectious diseases, we could listen to a spin about the fact that there is no Parliament of poor times, that it deals with epidemiological decisions. But what no one has said is that neither the Parliament should deal with epidemiological decisions nor will it be a question that we want to settle. They should be dealt with by the Minister of Health, which should have been done since the beginning as a key person in the pandemic. But what Parliament must deal with and what we have insisted and insist on is that decisions concerning the restriction of the rights and freedoms of our citizens are made in the Croatian Parliament. And that is what we will continue to fight for, so when the question is asked how competent this Assembly is and how many colleagues of Grba-Bujevic that there are five psychiatrists here, I will tell you in conclusion that given the way you acted in the pandemic, you've made syphilic and illogical decisions and spread panic, you've certainly risked the mental health of our citizens who were not at all focused on you, so these five psychiatrists we have in the Croatian Assembly, not that we need them in this pandemic, but, unfortunately, given the consequences you've left to your political decisions on the mental health of our citizens, they're quite inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95176	On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak again, re-respected representative Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95177	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. From crisis to crisis, from headquarters to headquarters, the covid certificates were lifted, and, behold, the children brought me a test from school. What's with the tests? Why are we testing them? In the course of the epidemic when we had thousands of cases we didn't test the children, they went to school, more or less everything worked normally. Now that all the states relax the measures now that all the states are abolishing the covid certificates to me kids are bringing free tests each and every two pieces they bring, I put in a drawer. The drawer is full, they're free. And now aside from the test that costs seven kunas in purchase, so if we add VAT, let's do nine kunas, we'll round up to 10 colleagues in Boric. Why does it cost 33 kunas in a pharmacy? And we need to look back at some of the profiteers' coronas, and there were, there were, and there were plenty of them, maybe more than needed. PCR test is the law at once and BAT is good, PCR cost 700 kuna, BAT cost much less, 90, 100 kuna as where. In the reports that are coming, we see that we spent billions of dollars on tests, sick leave, etc. All of this has cost a lot, it's a fact of over 40 billion. Did it have to cost that much for that? Well, then some media journalists like to do a lot of research, and there are still some journalists who are investigating, and they say, look, we bought these tests for children in schools of three brothers who studied in Osijek, they also have a prominent member of the HDZ in close proximity to them, and then nothing was caused at the beginning of the epidemic, they imported a lot of equipment, protective masks from China, and it came out in the media, so it didn't exactly buy from them, so then some donation came from China, but now these tests are just bought out of them and spent millions of kuna on tests that parents put into drawers and say it was really tested, we did test it, because they're probably not because children are healthy. About how this epidemic or even better how the measures to contain the epidemic have affected our children, their mental health, take a look at a little analysis of all the experts since last year. High school even higher grade primary school exposure to inappropriate content on the Internet, mental health of children at risk, increased number of destructive behaviour, self-destructive behaviour especially in senior secondary schools and this is the result of the work of headquarters and staff measures and on the teaching line and former Minister Divjak who transferred all on the line at the same time as if she could hardly wait, the gaps in knowledge that would likely have a lifetime. These are all the results of measures that this headquarters has been fighting against the epidemic, which should also be spoken of. And the question is that the measures were coming to HS if everything was going to happen that way. And as counterpart Selak Rasudic said from crisis to crisis, from headquarters to headquarters. So how long? Now we're in a bigger crisis, an even bigger crisis ahead of us we want to have headquarters again, so the headquarters will decide everything again, not HS as it is in all countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95178	We have two replicas, one of the respected representatives of Byce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95179	Mrs. Vukemilovic, one question. The pandemic of the Corones has already existed for some time, as we also know, he was an expert body until before the parliamentary elections when the prime minister said that the decisions of the headquarters of the political decision were actually made. Now we are back on this section, the headquarters has had 400 meetings, it has taken a series of measures, but do you worry that the results they have achieved, which is that we are 8 in the world by mortality, although we are a member of the EU, although we have good health, that... we were the first of mortality in Croatia might be worse eaten by the Assembly since the slower body reacted worse. Maybe here or someone else wouldn't make such good decisions, so the results would be worse than they are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95180	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95181	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bice. Well, hardly to be worse, here's the most honest thing to be worse. We are at the top of mortality not only in the EU but in the world, if seen by millions of people. Much has been criticised by Sweden and their liberal measures, but they have far less mortality than Croatia has per million inhabitants. In the end, we have to ask ourselves what the results of the headquarters are, and do we still need that headquarters, and do we need these masks here in HS, and we have to ask ourselves that? So when's the end? When are we gonna stop this already? We see that since the invasion of Russia into Ukraine, no one has reported us anymore. Does anyone know how many people are infected today? How does it not matter anymore? For two years, we've been listening to three numbers, the number of infected, the number of hospitalized, the number of dead, so doesn't that matter anymore? I wonder how many people are infected today. Where did that information go?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95182	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pavić..
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95183	... The initiative because we wanted to discuss it in the assembly to see what the goals are and here's a question for you. [[Specially enabled.]] Since this headquarters was actually appointed by the government, on the other hand, the government was elected by the majority in the assembly, the law states that this decision should be confirmed by the parliament, do you think that if such a debate were to take place, if it were discussed in the assembly, that the majority who set up the government would, and the government had set up the headquarters to distinguish the decision from the one that came as a proposal in the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95184	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95185	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic. Maybe, maybe not, I don't know. I can't speculate. I can't answer a hypothetical question. But if we don't adopt this proposal, we'll never know. I don't see the reasons, and that's what I said, why would the ruling be afraid because when you see interests and for this debate, it's obvious that you would get even a two-thirds majority, if it's to judge by the number of empty places, and I see that there are empty places even some who in the public struggle with Covid measures, the Staff, and there aren't now here in this debate. That's where I think of my colleagues from the Homeland Movement, they're terrible against the Covid measures, but here, I see today, they have no interest in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95186	Thank you very much. I would ask a certain number of sovereigns to leave this assembly and to remain only those who are proeuropa. We have, uh... No, no, you come here free, you come here, and you can sit down because we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95187	Thank you, Your Honor. The assembly room is empty. It's part of the Covid measure that's been imposed. I am aware of the Presidency's decision, but this topic is important, it is important for us because we are proposing, I ask you to have understanding because we cannot selectively apply this rule. The other day, there were independent deputies sitting here more than they had room for, so no one said anything. Today, the problem is when we discuss this law that is extremely important for the Croatian people. So here you are. Please have an insight into... [[Thank you very much. I've got...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95188	I have a proposition for you. You asked for a break, didn't you? Come on, you asked for a break, come on. Okay? Is that okay? Well, thank you very much. And now you can leave, please, because that's how the Rules of Procedure is, so we can't change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95189	Just one more thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95190	Yes, it is, it is. All right, I'm all, no, no. But you can't. [[If it's... no, no, here, if...]] But we can't, but we can't argue, so go there and you can listen to him, he'll definitely say something interesting. [[Mr. Sacic is now speaking, which means three of us can be in the assembly.]] I understand, but... a place for the Sovereignists. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here you go, Mr. Sacic. Here you go, Mr. Sacic. No, Mr. Grmoy, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95192	Dear Vice President, a number of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament have been injured here with this request of yours because fellow Sacic is on behalf of the motionary, and three colleagues from the Sovereignist sits in his seat and can sit and you make it impossible for them to do so. And on the other hand, there's no meaning this, this part of the assembly, the left, so she doesn't care about human beings, they don't care about human rights and freedoms, so here in HDZ, there's what, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 So I don't know what the problem is. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95193	From you, every time I learn something from you, I learn something from you every time, so I won't give you a warning because it was useful for me. ... Here you go, sir. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury.../incomprehensible/... individual debate. Mr. Sacic, please. Mr. Thunder, thank you very much, I mean, you know, you learn something new every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95194	Thank you, esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Here, indeed after the opening investment of the applicant on behalf of Mr Pavliček and colleagues Vucilović and Mrs. Selak Rasudić and his colleagues Grumoja and his colleagues, Mr. Bauk and Mr. Bauk, then you from HDZ, have really remained a narrowed area of what else would be a wise thing to say, which the Croatian public should know without being told. The only thing I tried so hard to do, which, which, which I found what. So I found this Staff's work so hated in the Croatian people, it caused so much dissatisfaction, that in the rain, snow and ice, from its warm houses and homes before the Ukrainian crisis it forced the stand of the Most 900 thousand people to sign a referendum to abolish the certificates. He made us, myself, that I had personally participated at least four times in protests against the crown measures and on the last crown and I won. So, these are the terrible sacrifices that we and as Croatian sovereigns and MPs have made, to put this Staff out of force and to form, to frame ourselves in constitutional frameworks, and this idea that we have given, however, a little talk with Mr Bauk, is indeed a good solution for you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, to come out of the slippery and unsustainable area that will in history record that human rights and freedoms have been suspended in the Republic of Croatia to the extent that the Croatian people could no longer bear it, that we are the powers of the Parliament and what the Croatian people originally had in them to be transferred to an impersonal Staff who, slightly speaking, abused it. There were certain measures that could have been useful, in a way to educate something, how to behave, that virus was unknown to everyone in the beginning, but so much oscillation, it was such a media terrible campaign against common sense. So who can return here, and this, this peace and peace that we had in our houses, from children, older people, how many people you actually indoctrinated media to the extent that the father of a son could no longer follow, I don't know, brother-in-law, these are separate families in terms of vaccination-not being vaccinated. Well, then we saw for ourselves how much economic damage this has done. These are terrifying measures, and only because of that, colleague Buja... What about this one, Grba Bujevic, I'm sorry, we could have been a little wide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, Agent Tudjman made a decision in the middle of the war in difficult situations on the government of national unity. So what you didn't give, since it's like that, we said, you say it's not political, we say it is. But even if it wasn't, they put the one in the Staff of Scientists, from Lauc to Đikiæ and they argued, but then you didn't spread one round of people with psychiatrists just, quite formally, who will somehow traverse the way to the media because it wasn't, the media were terribly bad and anticovid propaganda doing thinking that they were actually working for the benefit of the Croatian people, they inflicted immeasurable damage on people's mental health, every day saying we're so dead, now we're, now it's two weeks key, and now it's over, we all die if we get out, it's terrifying. They have not fulfilled their mission, it is finally time for the Parliament to put them under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95195	... Mr. Sacic, if you want, if you want, you can... [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Pavlich. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95196	Dear fellow Sacic. Here, we politicians, no matter what political options we come from, are public figures and should be an example to our fellow citizens, but what example is being sent when the Chief of Staff who signed the decisions that the Staff made doesn't stick to those decisions? What example is being sent when on a tour of the Peljesto Bridge we have a mass of ministers who are hugged next to each other without a mask on their faces? What example are we sending to the Croatian public? And then you defend something indefensible. This Staff, unfortunately, is a pure political body that has made political decisions that were only valid for some and obviously not for political elite.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95197	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95198	Yeah, that was really hard to watch and understand. There is nothing to say but condemn the phenomenon, condemn such behavior because when I remember from my homeland the man who led the manure to the ground under the measure of isolation and 8 thousand kunas had to pay, and at the same time that we had opportunities somewhere in the Parliament to see people who were breaking isolation or around, then all this together actually contributes to the mistrust of the citizens and to the work of this Staff, and that's a bad message, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95199	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95200	Dear fellow Sacic. So we know you yourself said that this pandemic happened at one global level and, especially at the very beginning, there were a lot of strangers, and our headquarters during that time, I would point out, not only did he make decisions but he did all the time and he made recommendations and taught our people to especially the least protected, such as older ones, such as children. I'm wondering if you might have any insightal examples, mentioning a country at least in Europe that can serve as one guideline or as you would tell me in Dalmatia, the sprawl for, whether decision-making itself, the way you make it, or the amount of measures you've taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95201	Thank you for that question, really, I agree with you. At first, it seemed blizzardly horrifying, and we were all afraid. We were all afraid because we were so under that, that impression of Chinese over there, that people were falling down the road, that it was a new plague and, uh, and then, but someone had to demystify it, that layman could be afraid. However, doctors, epidemiologists and those deep in matter had to demystify and say that is not the case. Someone had to do more than that, but there wasn't any media, and the country, the country that, there, kept its senses, that's Sweden. Look, Sweden, as far as I know, it was some kind of, at least menu, a viewing specimen, especially at times when it was forbidden to drive from county to county in Croatia, it was terrible, yes, it was horrifying to come to the vineyard, at the earthquake affected area, the horror, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was... Oh, thank you. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is. Thank you. I totally understand you. Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95202	- Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please. Here, it's clean, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95203	Here's how everybody cheered up in the assembly, especially at the HDZ Club, and now imagine, colleagues, how nice it would be if you could take those masks off your face and let's see your happy and smiling faces. So here you are, encouraged and all of us here and in the Assembly and in the Republic of Croatia will be better, and in the end line, health will be much more logical, given the situation as you have recognized it, through our referendum, and in spite of the fact that the Covid certificates and the masks in schools are lifted. So, feel free to smile in public. You can take the masks off your face, like, DORH took the masks off your crime, maybe it's the best parallel right now. When we talk about the measure of this Law, we are mostly talking about how the Civil Protection Staff made decisions at all, and he made them so that even the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia admitted that they were in effect without any justification. So such a Constitutional Court as we have in the Republic of Croatia has publicly said that the Staff did not make decisions in a transparent manner and gave you the puck to do so in the future with explanations, so completely different from your established practice. But I'd like to take a closer look at how it is in other countries. We could often listen that only in the Republic of Croatia, I think even the Minister of Health has said that someone thinks that these decisions are made in the Parliament. Is that really true? The fact that it is easy to verify that, in other countries, epidemiological security measures are proposed by the Government to parliaments that bring extensively so-called ‘produced’. Covid legislation. For example, in Austria, Switzerland or Germany, 4 laws relating to the protection of the population from the epidemic, and in particular here would highlight the fourth law adopted on 22 April 2021 in which the legislator very detailedly regulates appropriate security measures to contain an epidemic in the district in a particular German federal province or in a certain city, depending on the number of inhabitants, the number of people infected at a certain time interval of 7 days. Therefore, not in particular, it should be said that the law regulates the extremely detailed application of epidemiological measures to private and public gatherings, the number of persons who may be present, possible prohibitions of residence outside the home at a specified time, working hours of certain facilities, banning the work of certain objects and many other details that we see in Croatia in the decisions of the headquarters of civil protection. Therefore, all those who consider that under quotes a slow legislative body that you euthanize and make ineffective should not adopt detailed regulations restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens, should read German law and make sure how serious and responsible the German legislator regulates the complex and vital matter of the application of epidemiological measures, knowing that it prescribes exceptional restrictions on the freedom and rights of citizens. So it's democracy. And this minimum we asked through the referendum that at least when we talk about restrictions on the rights and freedoms of our citizens' decisions are made in the Croatian Parliament it is too much for you. What democracy do we look up to then? And I'm gonna do two things one more time. The first one is clear what you want. You want to introduce a permanent state of emergency to prevent the investigation of your crime and allow for the continuation of the robbery of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, until the headquarters of your colleagues from HDZ? We know when it starts, and will we ever, while you're in power, find out not only when it ends, but that it ends at all. But every force forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95204	Mr Milanović litre, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95205	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the headquarters has a lot to do with it. It also affects home budgets. I'm the father of a three-year-old son who attends kindergarten. In the last month if he was perhaps seven days in kindergarten due to self-insulation measures. We know that children are more likely to get sick, there are no more serious consequences for their health when they are in contact or when they are even infected. In fact, many families are in the same situation as I was, and there is a lack of logic and a child who shows symptoms, for example. Tuesday must be seven days in isolation. The child is tested on Wednesday by the time the test comes it's somewhere Sunday or Monday let's say and then go into isolation one day to come back again. And so from week to week because every day is getting sick by others. The problem is most of all, the blow to parents who can't leave their children anywhere, they have to take sick leave, and therefore they're threatened by the material side, by the headquarters and by these insurmountable measures. Here, please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95206	As much as they don't, they're all epidemiologists, and they're doctors we could learn from HDZ exposure today. So, what happened to us? And what you're saying, but it's a paradoxic situation, like when the research came out, that the vaccines transmitted the infection, even though they had the patients in the house from Covid, and the research that I refer to was just about a home environment where they were easily transmitted to them, they didn't get the disease just because they were vaccinated with the disease. So it was saving up on them, so I had a situation here that my colleagues were walking around the assembly explaining to me that their whole family had Covid right here, and that they were here because there was no sick leave. They're not parliamentary agents. They're professional services. And as far as the virus has spread, we can only dream of finding out the true consequences of such non- epidemiological not to say anti- epidemiological decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95207	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95208	Dear counterpart Selak Rasudic made it clear that these measures the government had taken and the headquarters had no effect. Otherwise, the numbers of people who were killed would not be like this, and it is clear that these measures, especially these Covid certificates, were anti- epidemiological measures, not epidemiological measures. What actually surprises us is why the government now, and we see that, is the fall of these numbers infected this very large, why isn't it going to end all measures? What's waiting for you? They've been cut off in part now, Covid's confirmations, probably the rest will be abolished, but I don't know what these masks are for now, why we're all fooling ourselves, why here in the assembly we have to keep the masks, everybody's hanging out without masks, sitting together in a lot of numbers, and who are we actually lying to? So who do we lie to and deceive with these measures? And we know that in certain situations we behave differently than we behave here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95209	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95210	It is aware that I do not say programmically and has a clear goal. The goal is to put people in a state of permanent control, to feel that they are not free, and to know that they always have to be limited in some way. Because what happens to masks has serious psychological consequences. You're not the same person when you wear a mask, you don't think, you don't act, you don't speak the same way as the person who takes off that mask. From the banal examples, you don't have to caricate until you get into some communications at all because you have a mask on your face. And it's a programming approach that permanently tries to instill in people the idea that they're not free, so they won't even know how to act as free citizens and vote for democratic processes and free their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95211	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95212	Thank you very much. counterpart Selak Rasudiæ, data coming to this HS from that same headquarters, says 98% of the infected are being treated at home, 2% are being treated in health institutions, means 98%. We are currently at a stage where the covid of the confirmation has been abolished, which doesn't mean it won't be reintroduced, but with that presidency, so we have gone from parliamentary democracy to headquarters. It's time for headquarters to be abolished, but we're not being announced by new headquarters that will have some new functions again, which means that from the crisis to crisis, from headquarters to headquarters we're constantly in some sort of state of emergency. The fact is, there's something going on that we haven't seen on European soil in a long time, but there's nothing going on with us right now. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95213	Thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95214	We must note that there may be several reasons for such action. On the one hand, HDZ has proved convenient that there is no possibility of control of its practice, we suspend public procurement, we declare supply of all equipment secret, we bring in headquarters, we avoid democratic control, and we can do what we want. On the other hand, since apparently certain institutions have recently hesitated to arrest even HDZ ministers, there is a possibility that they want to continue from one state of emergency to another, independently of the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, because they simply do not have enough ministers to remain in their positions, and in order to be able to do business in a regular state, then we need to invent a headquarters when we cannot find ministers, which is what we see best today when it comes to the Minister of Construction, and that is certainly the situation with all others for which the DORH will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95215	Time, thank you. Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Mr. Pavliček now has, who, what, on behalf of the proposer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95216	Dearly beloved, I see that certain, certain colleagues and colleagues are already rolling their eyes which I took again for five minutes on behalf of the promoter, but here God has the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS, so I have the right to take advantage of my business opportunities, but what I said I came here to do and speak for those who gave me confidence, so whoever wants to listen will, who will not be willing to do it again. However, I would like to say only briefly, and I will not take all five minutes, which is that these measures unfortunately have succeeded in something, and this is also the division of the Croatian people, and that is the fact. Children had a fight inside with their fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters had a fight, both brother-in-laws and father-in-laws had a fight, as Sacic said, but what was the worst mass of these measures had no effect. Here's exactly what this mask is going to happen now that this debate is over and the cameras shut down? 90% of you here from HDZ will immediately take off this mask, and you will still be in this assembly. Well, the other day we were in a meeting with the prime minister, a parliamentary opposition, and then what happened, let's put the masks on coming to the cameras, now you can take it off. Let's not lie, that's how we all act, you first and everyone else together. Let's not be Pharisees. Then let's put an end to what's not necessary, let's not pretend now that we're under masks only the speakers aren't, as soon as we step in and the lights go out, we all take off our masks. The truth is, the other day I was at that meeting, I saw what it was, it was said here come the cameras put the masks on. It's a fact, and that's how our society works, obviously, but that's the problem, we're pretending to be more Catholic than the Pope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95217	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Zeljko Pavić is looking for a replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95218	Your Honor, here's the same question for you as your colleague. So we have a government elected by most in the assembly, the government has set up a headquarters, after which the headquarters makes decisions, and now you're asking for those decisions to be confirmed in the assembly. Do you think most in the assembly would go past the decisions of the people they actually appointed and put through the government, first question. The second question is, do you realize what the problems are when the assembly is to meet in a short time and when a decision is to be made, some kind of decision when it is to be voted on? Just try, I don't know if you've ever been to the city council, so the city council office means six, seven, eight days in advance we're informing the city council that when there's going to be a city council and then they're not able to organize themselves on time, and now imagine that we should vote on Saturday or Sunday, what it would look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95219	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95220	Dear counterpart Pavic, I do not believe that the ruling decision of its own political headquarters, appointed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, would open a parliamentary debate, even if it were at 4 p.m., even if only 100 people are currently watching this debate, would be available to Croatian citizens and that is democracy. It's a democracy festival, let people hear different opinions, and that's why we're here, and I can't agree with you that technically it couldn't be done. It's exactly been shown in the last 2 years. how this virus works. At this point, thank God for the latest variations and subvariants is that they are spreading faster, but the symptoms are much lighter, which confirms despite the large number of people infected that there are far fewer hospitalized, which means that once every two weeks, the Assembly can confirm without any problem the decisions made by the headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95221	You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Grmoy's debate. Yes, you can come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95222	Thank you. It is clear that the ruling does not want this debate as much as they do not want a referendum. The Constitutional Court made a scandalous decision a decade ago, which remained out of the public's focus, which is that they rejected the request of one part of the opposition representatives for the assessment of the constitutionality of the covid certificates, i.e. the covid certificates were declared constitutional and this was the reason that it would be difficult to provide a two-thirds majority here for measures. By doing so, the Constitutional Court has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, deleted the Article. 17 and actually made it possible for the ruling to make decisions limiting human rights and freedoms by simple majority. In one replica, I said that tomorrow we can get into a situation that if a two-thirds majority in HS cannot be achieved for the appointment of constitutional judges, then the Constitutional Court will most likely say that HDZ and its coalition partners can choose constitutional judges. This is unseen and it is quite clear that they are heading towards the collapse of this referendum too, because today the signatures at the Zagreb Fair are counting, and our volunteers are telling me that despite the most rigorous instructions received by those in charge of counting the signatures, there are no invalid signatures, not even 6%. This means that in the end there will be about 390,000 so if they are even more rigorous, at least 390,000 valid signatures, and 368,000 needs, although we do not all know so many inhabitants in Croatia. That's how I know Boric, I know because it's passing time, if it's been checked somewhere around 200,000 signatures, then it's clear what's going to end up being and you know it, and that's why on Monday, Boric and partially abolished the covid of the confirmation without a big pomp, you used as you're using this tragedy of the Ukrainian people to cover up your crime, so you used the tragedy of the Ukrainian people to make this story about the epidemic, the covid of the confirmation and everything else blur and hide it. And well told you by a colleague means when cameras don't shoot then they don't need masks, they don't need anything, then all the measures are out of force put in, and serious scientists and experts have calculated that these measures cost us 100 million kuna a week. And we won't have an increase in prices and inflation just because of Russia's aggression on Ukraine, but we already have an increase in the prices of all the products because of the crazy measures you've been taking and someone's going to have to answer for it, someone's going to have to account. And we will insist on the referendum so that tomorrow not some new Capak, some new coat of arms Bujevic, some new Boris is denying our human rights and freedoms not by decision of headquarters, but by deciding two or three people who meet there and Plenkovic gives them some direction and they make the decision. And all those decisions were political, not professional, I've been saying that since the beginning of this epidemic. When Willi Beroš and Bozinovic were superheroes, I hosted N1 TV, I think it was February or March and said that we would ask everything they were doing and that all decisions made were political. As you allowed, I don't know, the Column of Memories in Vukovar and you should have let it because this people have some anniversary, some events that can't just be banned. So the decisions made respect all segments of our lives and the psychological state of the nation and the economy. They can't run our country by epidemiologists because it's best if we stop the virus and we all go into the basements and wait until this goes away, that's best. But what would happen then to our psycho, with the economic state of the nation, with everything else, and I've said it from the beginning, and I haven't changed the story as you change the story every once in a while as it suits you. When the election can then cross the border, then there is no measure then all the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95223	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlovichk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95224	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. I agree with you that all decisions are political in one way or another, but what is even more important is that they are made in the interest of the ruling party. Here's exactly what you said about the election, let's remember those statements that are self-insulation and out are bioterrorists, the bioterrorists are being punished. Which month later elections are in self-insulating you, just put a mask on your face and direction to vote. You know who it's about. So that's the best example, maybe the most banal way this headquarters works. Decisions are made in the interest of the ruling structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95225	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95226	Well, that's clear, so here's the bioterrorist Hrebac came here and voted for the ruling majority, and he was given some self-insulation and then he wasn't a bioterrorist because he needed for most, and so these people who were supposed to go to the election round HDZ are no longer bioterrorists overnight enough is the mask and all the problems are solved. That's what I'm talking about with these double criteria and standards. Just as the pre-election campaign promised to lift immunity for government members, two demands have now arrived at the government for the removal of immunity should now be considered, they would now consider whether they would give and another constitutional expert says the government may reject it if the DORH's request is malicious. Sanja Baric was getting a little soft with the Constitutional Court. It's not gonna happen this night!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95227	Thank you. Mr. Josip Boric has his own debate, but he will wait one second for the epidemiological measures we are talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95228	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here's what I'd like to say at the beginning about this bill, i.e. amendments to the laws of the Sovereign Club. First one really bad thought if it was even the thought said by a former colleague of the bush, that someone was using this tragedy to deal with policies like it does, like HDZ, then we're using everything as a fig leaf and we're hiding everything. These policies are marked by just such politicians and such parties as MOST. The Croatian Democratic Community is responsible enough to lead politics already here for the sixth year through the second government of Andrej Plenkovic and to correspond adequately to every misfortune, to every accident, to every problem, to all that has now hit us in those six years. That's how we respond to this. And as for those of you who don't know the system like my colleague Grumoja doesn't know it, the absolute system of state administration is speaking so casually, that I don't say in jutura, then these levels of debate happen. But as I went to see why he hadn't been in the media long and nowhere likely, I see that his last announcement was on a social network two days ago he finally got to his own air. He's here today... He's going through one bill of law that we can discuss and discuss. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not defending anyone. 19 colleagues signed, several here, 13 others were not interested in what was signed, i.e. Those clubs that signed it dismembered. Those who were mayors of this story were expelled because they had shown such politicians and their intentions when we talk about the pandemic. They painted them exactly as they were said to be, and they declared them public when we talk about the pandemic of pandemics and anti-vaxers, and they said it's hard to find among them one that would be vaccinated. And after that, the gentleman who designed the Sovereigns had to leave his post. There's a second colleague and things are moving on and we're arguing. Then the Homeland Movement Club fell apart, and some went there again, some went out. They already have the next club and we're dealing with it. And now you put it in line with the ruling majority and they say we're all the same. We're not the same. There is a responsibility of the person, the people, who have their duties to allow the system to function. And so there's six years in a row. They don't even know how long the Civil Protection Command takes, they don't even know how it is founded, and they have their own polygons. The bush has a Mr. Bulj in Sinj and he founded his headquarters as soon as he came to power, he must have disbanded someone and his ex, put some of his people in and made decisions. I see how he respects them. Says the other day here he's holding a hearing five minutes got tens and tens of thousands of kuna fines. He chose to disobey the law, to teach us a lesson about who respects or disrespects the law, and how to obey or disrespect the law. When they make an oath as parliamentary advocates that they will obey the law and as mayor says I will not respect the value of the word of these politicians, ask. Can we even call it politicians, serious people? How much is their word in this assembly when you swear to obey the law and the Constitution of this country? You come to another place and you say I won't. Who should be trusted by those who make decisions, who are responsible or the shrubs who see everything as a game, as a theater where he is the champion of drama every day, every day is a drama. He found something, he saw something. Well, here's one ministry for you, Mr. Grmoy, if you're ever a minister, maybe 20 years from now. Maybe the Ministry of Conspiracy and an investigation for you, to be that minister, and then you run the whole story. Even though we have some experience with your work, seeing what's going on, I wouldn't laugh like that. So as far as the two-thirds majority or the proposal of this law is concerned, we've already said we're making decisions as ordered by the law, as the Constitutional Court has said. We've respected everything and now they say make those decisions here at the Parliament, so confirm them again, they'll be against it. We'll bring them again, always us. And they say, here's a colleague of the Grmoi says I accept both the ordinary majority and the two-thirds, I advocate a referendum to be... He doesn't know what he'd do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you see that? And that's how we have to discuss today. To him, too, this law is good, and it also requires a two-thirds majority through that referendum that always Parliament brings something that is business, a clean job of executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95229	Time. Thank you. Just a minute. I've allowed you Mr. Boric directly to address some MPs because I've allowed it before, so I couldn't make any discrimination. But I would ask you others now to talk about the subject. Talking about the subject is serious enough. Is that right? And this other one is actually less important. We have a breach of Mr. Sacic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95230	On the very trail of this introduction of yours, the esteemed chairman, where you have obviously noticed that Mr. Honorable Representative Boris had made a rough turn to the left mentioning Croatian sovereigns hurt, and the founders injured Article 238th correction of the wrong quote. It's incorrect what he said that's enough from me. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95231	Just please don't turn left there. You've gone left enough already. You'll still have to fall there. I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Mr. Sacic has a replica now. Here's your line now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95232	And here, thank you very much. So, fellow Boric, it is clear that this is a living topic that always causes, challenges and the public's interest and us out of opposition, you defend yours. Did you realize that, to this extent, a part of the Croatian public is actually being embodied politically that even one political party filed a criminal complaint 6 days ago against all members and associated members of the headquarters, so these are with very serious accusations of committing various crimes against the freedoms and rights of man and citizen etc. The coercion of threats and all that, so what can you say about that? Look, he filed a criminal report aware that if he's lying, he, he, people are convinced they're not telling lies, because if he falsely declares it, it's a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95233	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95234	Thank you very much. Comrade Sacic, if political parties file criminal charges as one way of a political struggle then tell us which party it is that we know who we are fighting with such a model.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95235	Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95236	Because if it's a model, I thought we'd been there a long time before the '90s. If political parties, and we see that this has become an obvious dispute not only in your case you're talking about, but there are other cases in some counties where other parties against politicians are putting up with it, and that's not a matter of speaking, if that's a model of political struggle, the question is where it's going to end and what it wants to do then. Whoever's doing this is in business. And as for what my colleague Radin said, it's really true. You've gone so far to the right. that you came all the way to the left and you probably ended up somewhere in this story probably not knowing what you were suggesting. [[/Intruder: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, good.]] That's why this looks what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95237	Okay, okay, okay, let's go, let's go, let's move on. Sir, Mr. Luka Brcic, replica
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95238	Your Honor, I think it is necessary to point out that the headquarters is this entire 2nd year. logistic co-ordinated with many processes, so if we compare ourselves to some other countries in our country, it didn't happen, for example, that we've ever lost the respirator and the other necessary medical techniques. And we also know that it was a successful tourist season and that it didn't happen on its own, that someone tried to organize testing points and quarantines for tourists and education of small private tenants. Personally, I think we have a balance when it comes to measures between the preservation of health and the real everyday economic life at one I would say a more liberal level was compared to many other countries in the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95239	Answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95240	Thank you very much, dear colleague Brcic. So we've been talking all this time, and that's what the opposition is saying that we have the most liberal measures of the entire 2nd century. all over Europe, but that doesn't stop them from doing what they do all the time. We have a situation here today that we have generals after the battle, let's call it that, I'd like this to be over, the sooner he finishes, the more likely we're going towards a better end or goal. But they know everything now as they did two years ago. when it started. And here I am listening to a colleague of Pavlichek, and he knew everything then, and it came out of his debate that way, and we didn't know anything. I know what I was doing as head of the local self-government to myself now and why we were doing it, but at that point we didn't know anything about what followed us doing what we could and what they told us to do because the civil protection system is a system, it's not an individual, it's not a few people in this headquarters here that they're talking about, it's a whole system that has its own rules, ways of monitoring, ways... equipment, so all we need to do is work when we get some trouble. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95241	Thank you, thank you, thank you, time. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95242	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Boric, don't waste time on the sovereigns who was with us and who wasn't. If Mr. Zekanovic is so good to you, take him into your lap to be with you because until yesterday you were spitin' on him, and today he's good to you. I will put it this way, first of all, you might find it smarter to spend that time now on sovereigns counting your colleagues who came to your assembly that day, and who ended this one in the DORH survey or another Croatian institution. And you yourself said that you have a majority in the assembly, so what you're afraid of, take responsibility, take responsibility for all decisions that the headquarters has made that are illogical and that have been made exclusively with political interests. Rarely, which of these decisions was epidemiologically and rarely which decision was made was meaningful and made up by some criteria and by some standards. This has proved down the road from these 400 and some decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95243	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95244	Thank you very much. I don't think 495 decisions and 3750 recommendations or instructions were so bad and ineffective that we didn't do anything. It's your opinion, the post-festum of everything that's been going on for 2 years, so I was just looking back at the beginning when the sovereigns were just the gentleman you're talking about and I'm having a very lively discussion with him and what's happening doesn't affect our relationship at all, but I'll always say that, because you don't hesitate to tell us some things. And yes, I say what is important to me, it is important that there is a system of decision-making and if decisions have been made and implemented by regional and local headquarters with the obligation to make harder or even stronger decisions than those of which they have all easily escaped because they have always been the most liberal and best we can do without stopping economic and economic and other processes. I think we did a job that was good for us. What's gonna happen next time I don't know. I think what the headquarters is doing is highly designed, or the decisions are based on this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95245	Thank you, time. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95246	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Boric, well, here's the meaning of this proposal says a full assembly by and the promoter, and I'm sorry that the three of them are spinning around with their replicas, but what you've noticed is that the ex post mind that came up here today with its force suddenly and lockdown and everything that's been going on around the world to save people's lives for one single reason from today is somehow questionable to them if they knew everything already then. I only expected that today we would hear from them why they needed help from Ukraine, why they needed help from refugees from Ukraine because the war would one day end and they would return home, so there is no need for all of this to be done now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95247	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95248	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar. I've claimed, and I'm going to argue, so everything we've done in this.../incomprehensible/... and at the level of government and on the level of headquarters is based on the laws of the Republic of Croatia. We authorized civil protection headquarters through the Civil Protection Act to know, take measures under the Law to protect the public from infectious diseases and change it the way we thought it should work. Those who ignore it or do not make decisions or have never made them. I don't give that Mr. Pavlichek doesn't bring, that he doesn't know what to do because while he was deputy mayor, he probably was chief of staff, he had to even have a certificate to be trained in the civil protection system and that he could do something. And now attacking yourself doesn't make sense, and asking the council to confirm decisions that it confirms anyway. He confirmed them through the laws. He says he wants to slow down the system or make it impossible for him to make decisions. That's because this number of decisions is too simple for them. And they say no one has met. That's not true. Those are lies that we have to deal with today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95249	Thank you. Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you yourself said you've been head of the local administration for a long time. I have a question for you. Not citing names as requested by the vice president, the head of one city has abolished by his decision some of the decisions that we have voted here. Now who's carrying the costs of that mistake he made, who's actually going to pay for it? Here, that's what I'm interested in. You should know that as the leader of a local ex.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95251	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95252	Thank you very much, colleague. We don't have to be ashamed of ourselves. That's my colleague Bulj. Grumoja talked him into doing it. And now that he's got the punishment he took five minutes here to say the state's wrong. How she who respects and implements the laws is not good because Nikola has persuaded him to do so in the political interest and who will pay for it now. So here's what I'm proposing to my colleague Grumo to pay for him, when he talked him into it because I think he's also their guy down there in the polygon doing what they're telling him to do. And that's why we're talking about two policies of responsibility or politics or populism that they're dealing with to make certain decisions, and then that had a certain result. That's the difference. And what Grmoy does if he's persuaded him to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95253	Mr. Grmoy, here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95254	An article has been injured, I have only one warning, Article 238, so I did not persuade Mayor Bulj, you know well that he is not to be persuaded at anything, and as far as these penalties have been imposed on him by the Janitors of Andrija Mikulić, so none of them will pass, it all falls to the first degree in court. So, Miro will be released. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95255	Here's who's having an impact on the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95256	Please, please, please, please, please, it's obvious this violation of the Rules of Procedure and the reminder, which he knew well that because it counts this one, up to three it's not hard to count, is it? Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, we are here today to discuss the proposal of a fellow representative of Pavliček that all decisions can be taken into force only when they are confirmed here in the Croatian Parliament. All decisions and measures proposed by the headquarters. And that means we've also had decisions about how many people can be at weddings, and now that I'm thinking backwards, I wonder how long we'd be discussing each individual decision, we can't even agree here on who needs to make decisions, let alone every single decision. All the time, it's been trying to impose here that the decisions that the headquarters makes are not legal, that everything that's been done this 2 years in the pandemic is done unlawfully just because we decided on Article 16, not Article 17, and in the Law on Contagion, on the protection against contagion, they write everything. measures to which and, [[Thank you very much.]] which is called to headquarters. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95258	Thank you very much. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95259	Mr. Boric!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95260	Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95262	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, I agree with everything you've said. And we have this problem, and that's why I'm explaining through the replicas that we, what we're talking about, don't know if we've come to.../incomprehensible/... because if we said it was Thursday, the MOST Club would have invested three amendments and voted against it and said it was Wednesday. That's what this is about. And now we're talking about us talking about a completely legal system that makes legal decisions. It was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. And I believe he knows that if we were to make this law again, we'd be making all the decisions with 77 votes, not and then they'd be saying it's worth nothing. That's what this is about. So they're just trying to get into some kind of space politically because they just don't know otherwise. Purpose, I say Grmoya doesn't know she wants 2/3 now or plain he's for both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95263	Thank you very much. So let's say thank you very much. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95264	Dear counterpart Boris has a time when decisions must be made now and immediately. And that decisions take effect after being confirmed by the Croatian Parliament in this case of pandemics or any such circumstances are simply insane. And in that part that's purely populist. And now that we look at everything that's happened in the past on the subject of the anti-vaxer, on all of these behaviors that raises any suspicions about the work of headquarters, the question is how much less scary than 15,000 deaths would have been, that there were more vaccinations, that more and more strictly adhered to the decisions made by the headquarters, that there was no non-stop bombing by individuals, and even here by our colleagues from the assembly that decisions were not working, how vaccination was not what we should do, how we don't need those confirmations, even though we all know that the decisions are headquarters and The measures that were here in Croatia were the most minimal in relation to Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you Mr. Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95265	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95266	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klaric. Well, here's what I'd like to conclude, in the end, with clear messages. We've been doing legal work since day one, we respect the system of state administration, we know who's doing what he's doing and who's responsible for what in that system, from the government, from the Civil Protection Staff, from the assembly as a legislative body, from local and regional headquarters, from the health care system, and these stories stop as to the legality and decision-making. All those who question them should question them as well as through discussions on such drafts of the law in one article, in order to see that it is clear that they do not go out in public because the different results I do not see from this debate, except that we have little thought of some moments, but the purpose and message that what we say is so and that we will continue to make decisions as we are authorized, as the ruling majority in order to protect citizens and from possible problems in health and in order to protect citizens from the fall of standards and everything else that stands before us. And those who wish as an opposition to do their job Let him do it, but let him make at least [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you, time, time.]] something that has a certain purpose. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95267	Time. And let's go to the lady we have Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic speaking on behalf of the promoter. I'm sorry, but without the glasses to see it up there, it's a little harder for me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95268	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back to the metrics. So we're going a little bit in the wrong direction, and you all have a suggestion that a colleague of Pavliček made, not too big, it's easy to read what would be chewed. No one's saying, no one's arguing that the decisions that the headquarters made were in accordance with the law, no one's saying it, it's not even in the proposal of colleagues, it's not standing anywhere. Let's not mutate the water and say what doesn't stand. So the decisions were made in accordance with the law, we have two years of headquarters, two years of headquarters running our lives, so isn't it time to subdue and see what was good, which was not good, and what was so controversial that the headquarters decisions were confirmed in HS? A little while ago, my colleague Pavic and I talked a little bit about things, so he told me, let's hear it while ruling have a majority of what we're going to change. Let's get back to the point. Someone mentioned Ukraine to the refugee, I am proud to be part of a free Europe, a democratic Europe and that Croatia has stood by a free and democratic Europe, but do not rule by acting like the Roman god Janus, two heads, a symbol of duality, one face towards Europe, we are here for freedom and democracy, and the other face at home. Don't. This is where representatives, not the Ministry of Health, but the Ministry of Health decided that it would go through a civil protection system, a health crisis, but through a civil protection system, a repressive body. The headquarters governs our lives, we return to the frameworks of democracy, we return to what parliamentary democracy is, that is the essence of this proposal, and that is why I am so eagerly defending it because we must return to the framework of parliamentary democracy. We can't let some new crisis, and it's already at the door and it's already here, it's bringing in a new headquarters, so another headquarters, and in the end, you get angry when we say, we've been in the headquarters, but that's what it looks like, it's been two years. And no one argues that the decisions were in accordance with the law, but let's do the undertone, let's see why the mortality in some hospitals is far greater. In the hospital Fran Mihaljevic the death rate is three to three and a half times smaller than in other hospital centres. Let's see what we learned from that crisis. Well, we can't fight an epidemic in the 21st century and measures from the 14th century that they knew in the Dubrovnik Republic. We can, but what we're going to do is we're all going to lock ourselves up in the basement houses, we're not going out. If we were already scared, if it was something new at first and I will remind you not in the 10th of the 9th assembly almost unanimously, only Ivan Pernar was against amending the law. So it's almost unanimous. This assembly can identify when the crisis is and make decisions to the great majority. That's what we proved last week. Why do you have no confidence in people whose Croatian people, Croatian citizens, the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia have given confidence? I don't see that really anything controversial. Why the skeptics, why the fear, not only of the people, but of the representatives? What is disputed about the measures being confirmed in the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95269	Thank you. If you're done? Yeah. Mrs. Jelkovac, first replica. [[Intruder Vucilović: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95270	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. I am just as much as you are a supporter of parliamentary democracy, but also respect for the principle of trinity of power. There is a Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, it is a legislative framework, that law has passed HS in it are the prescribed measures that bring some body-executed authority, each individual measure. It's not excluded from surveillance and control. Here we have reports that are submitted on what measures have been taken and how they have been implemented. What you're looking for now, you're asking that, besides bringing the legal framework as a legislative body, be brought here and individual measures. Well, you're actually trying to derogate us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95271	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95272	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. We discuss amendments and additions to the law every week. And today we've discussed two changes and additions. They're not the laws of the Holy Scriptures. At least that's not how I experience them, the laws are there to perfect, adapt, align with needs, and no one can convince me that the needs at the beginning of the epidemic are the same, and now they're not. Our knowledge of this virus is far greater. There are various mechanisms that we're fighting against this epidemic, and soon it's going to be about, you know, it's time for you to look at the Spanish flu that took a lot of lives more or less, and your sequence is about the same as the Corona virus. It will turn you into some flu that will come every year and due to acquired immunity and medications, vaccines and everything we've achieved in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95273	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95274	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Vucimilović, so I answered the line because you just said that we should no longer be closed and that we should not be in the basements, etc. I think that if we look from the beginning, to the present time, the Republic of Croatia was among the most liberal in the European Union. In particular, of the 27 countries we were 25 per our measures. On the one hand, we balanced measures to protect people's health, on the other hand we balanced to help the economy, save over 700,000 jobs, have the best tourist season in the Mediterranean. And now that we look and last year have had a record GDP growth of 10.4%. So above all expectations, and we had among the most liberal measures, and I don't think we should say we're in the basements, but we're not in the basements.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95275	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95276	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar. The fact is that at the beginning we really started with measures from the 14th century. We are also exhausted financially as a state, because our fiscal capacity is not like Austria's fiscal capacity, Germany and some other countries, and it is conscious. We had to give in to these measures, and it's a good thing we did it. No one ever said it was bad, though. I'll always advocate a Swedish model. I've been advocating him since the very beginning of the epidemic, and it seemed to me from the very beginning to be a very reasonable approach to this whole health crisis, because our economy wasn't in trouble. It was a blow from the outside, the health crisis led to these economic problems that we were dealing with the best we knew and got involved with. But what I'm trying to say after two years is that we see it a little bit, change it, and there's no need to keep two, three people because they said it themselves. That's how they make decisions, manage our lives. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95277	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95278	Are we talking here, or are we talking here about all the measures brought by the Staff or just the measure of wearing a mask and certificates? If we're talking about all the measures I'm going to remind you that several times in the Assembly I warned that the Staff must have crisis managers in its composition because we're not just fighting the virus. We fought for the stability of our economy, and we spent a lot of money on it. If the measures were different, and those measures could only be taken by a man who can deal with the crisis, so some crisis manager or a group of these managers might be spending 50% less money, maybe 70 percent less money could be spent, so today we'd have a different start. Maybe today the economy would be in a different state, and nobody's talking about it. So are we talking about all the measures or are we just talking about these two measures that are supposed to be controversial and that are against freedom?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95279	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95280	Thank you, dear colleague Pavić. We are talking about all the measures. So our proposal is very clear as well as in fact, the proposal of colleagues is very clear and I fully agree with you because there may be an even bigger crisis in front of you than there was this Corona crisis. We need an economic headquarters, too. Yesterday there was a problem with Sberbank, tomorrow there will be a problem with the price of meat, cereals, etc. We must not close our eyes to the situation in which the whole of Europe and the whole world are. This will also reflect the economy of the Republic of Croatia. What's being done is good for now, but we have to ask ourselves how our stock supplies stand, what our readiness is on a number of issues. Here's how it's calculated that Germany is reintroducing a military deadline. Yesterday, General Sacic spoke of it. We have opportunities to have some training in 30 days. I've been through war in Osijek, I know what I'm talking about, and I think we should think that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95281	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95282	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. You're as economist as I am and all the decisions that the Staff made here and I'm going to continue on to what my colleague Pavić was saying, so according to the latest data, the total cost of this pandemic was. What? Lack of income, which the direct costs that went to job conservation are over 40 billion kuna. Does this mean that this Chief of Staff made such bad decisions that he worked against all of us, so we didn't have smarter ways to spend 40 billion kunas than to pump them up like this in everything he's made decisions. Well, I think it's pointless to talk and it's easy to be smart after a battle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95283	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95284	Thank you, dear colleague Peric. The fact is, it's a huge asset. Most of it went to exactly those job-preservation measures, 4,000 kuna per employee. So, if you forbid people that they can't work, you have to refund money for their employees. That's the biggest part, but don't forget that we've also withdrawn significant funds for that very purpose, so it didn't all go out of the state budget, EU funds came in. What's the question is about getting all the funds, so as co-worker Selak Raspoudic once said, he will have to draw a line, file an account and see if there were any irregularities in the country where corruption is emerging. We need to ask ourselves how protection, masks, and everything else was used. in suppressing the epidemic. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95285	Thank you. And now we move on to the final points of view. It's the first club of the Bridge and Mr. Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95286	Thank you. So here's the final in the name of the club. Some things not clear to fellow Boric, it is not clear to him that I advocate that the decisions made by the headquarters here at HS are confirmed, and that decisions that go in the direction of depriving human rights and freedoms require a two-thirds majority. I don't know what's going on here, and where did he see any contradiction in my views? But he feels I don't know a particular affection or any sympathy for me I can notice when I'm not always mentioned. I don't know what the reason or what's behind it is, but one day we'll find out. Yeah, he's got some secret connection. As far as this proposal of the Sovereign Club, we support it as they do, as one of the few clubs and political parties in HS supported our referendum, and here we thank them for that. [[Intruder Radin: it's important that you find out together.]] We're together, it's not just our success, it's their success. As I said in that debate, the individual I had signed is currently counting, there are more than enough of them, and soon this assembly will decide what to do with these signatures when it turns out that Croatian citizens have decided to abolish the compromised headquarters, to abolish the full covid confirmation and that all decisions concerning human rights and freedom must be decided here in the HS by two-thirds majority. Now I have talked briefly with my colleague, Bauk, they say that on this constitutional issue they have no doubt that this issue is constitutional, that for this second question they will see what practically means that HS, and I hope that the ruling majority will accept it, should, through a few days when it is determined that the signatures have more than enough to set a date for the referendum. I do not believe that the Constitutional Court will go against the Croatian people, and if that happens, we will certainly not be responsible for the possible large protests that will follow in front of the Constitutional Court, and also here in front of HS and Government. It will be a responsibility you have taken on your own, and you will have to deal with it, so I urge you to consider it certainly because it is a large number of Croatian citizens we have managed to reach, 410,000 of them. If there was more time, we would have come and had been better weather conditions, very likely to have more Croatian citizens. After all, polls show you what citizens think about the headquarters, what they think and what is the popularity of Minister Berosa who was a superhero, and now he is one of the most hated ministers in the government, so here you continue playing with the fire, continue to ignore Croatian citizens, but the time of collection will come, if not now in the next elections it must be clear to you and to the Constitutional Court which I am also sending a message from this place and I welcome them to say clearly that the Constitutional Court did not have a unanimous position on the covid certificates. We have a separate opinion of several constitutional judges who are very well explained and are heading towards our arguments that we have attached to these signatures that we have brought together with colleagues and sovereigns, but also other political parties. Here's so much from me and I'll see you at the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95287	Mr. Krunoslav Katičić will speak finally on behalf of the representatives and Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95288	The Honorable Vice President of the Presidential Session. So here's the bottom line on behalf of the HDZ Club, so look, I've been listening very carefully to these frontal debates, and it's really with a fascinating ease that's rejected all the scientific thesis and founded decisions of both headquarters and people who have spent their whole life working on their profession and science. A clear conclusion is also made that the headquarters does not sit or stand not only for the people of one profession but is therefore formed as one comprehensive body in order to make decisions in the interest of Croatian citizens and the preservation of all other bodies that exist and other segments of life that exist in Croatia. Of course, when such things are said and discussed in this way, then not all the results and based decisions that have been made are justified, I will start from the past, perhaps the most successful tourist season in Europe, then to all those measures, or to the preserved jobs that have been led by this particular government in time, with Andrej Plenkovic, taken and made, up until the day of the mentioned increase in gross social growth of 10.4%, and so far here are the first effective and quick decisions taken yesterday in solving the problem of Sberbanka caused by the recent crisis. Why am I saying all this? So is this proof that a model is chosen that gives clear results to manage crisis situations in the right way. I will also remind the promoter that one of the basics has, there are two principles in the adoption of each legal act. This is the principle of efficiency and the principle of economics. Well, that's exactly what this Civil Protection Act means, and it includes those two principles. This proposal, which would have led to some additional activity and the approval of something based on the law, and the Constitutional Court itself confirmed such thinking, I believe that these two principles which are one of the fundamentals in any legal regulation are not respected and not taken into account when drawing up this proposal. Of course, when you look at the facts and listening to the debate again, the opposition is really frustrated by these facts and by the successes that have been achieved both in the management and in this corona crisis. I remind you, the decisions taken by the headquarters are based on the law which confirmed the Constitutional Court's decision of 9 month 2020. I therefore repeat that the HDZ Club will not support the proposed addition of this legislative proposal because it is not based on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95289	Thank you, too. And Mr. Zeljko Pavić will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club finally, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95290	I did not understand this last sentence which should be this, this proposal supported or founded by law. I don't understand, so the proposal is ahead of us, we've received a proposal to change one article or one article in the law and I don't see any problem here, the question is whether it will be accepted or not. Furthermore, it would be good if we were all together from the past two years. We also learned something when we were talking about a successful season, let's say we were lucky because we were orange, not red like all the Mediterranean countries around us, and thank God that we were and that we gave ourselves the opportunity to make our people in Dalmatia money and that they could live on normally. Let's learn something else, we've talked here several times because he's not afraid, he's not just fighting the virus, he's supposed to be fighting for the sustainability of the economy, and what counterpart Peric said was spent a lot of money, but let's do an analysis to see if maybe we could use different moves and with different decisions to spend less money and achieve the same effects, that's what it is to learn something. That's what I was talking about at this same pay phone when I was talking about not having to follow the results after some decisions, so there was no decision, which was the result after that decision. We have absolutely learned nothing from any decision that has been made, which is unfortunate. We were talking here about trafficker techniques that were completely misread afterwards. They're not there to reduce something, to reduce the number of infected, they were there to know when we need to do something, or when something happens that we're going to do, and we haven't learned the same thing, and now instead of admitting it, we realize and finally do these analyses that we couldn't do because we didn't get numerical data. If you remember here, there was a response from Minister Beros that the data was publicly delivered in the papers. I can't do it for every time the report comes looking for data in the paper six months or three months ago. This was the task of the headquarters to gather these data to us and to draw conclusions based on these data. Not just us, but the headquarters and the government and all those in charge of making decisions. If we want to move forward, that's the way to go. If we want to close our eyes and ears in front of the truth, we can do it and we can't study history, let's not learn from mistakes, let's start over every time. But just to tell you one thing, if you were a manager at a company that has 100, 200, 500, 1000 or several thousand employees, and you had one wrong decision and you didn't learn anything from it, then you made another wrong decision, and then the company went bankrupt, so those 3,000 people were out of work, I would ask you if you would think a little differently. However, money that has partly come from the budget has come from the EU, and we have no obligation to do so. We have people, we have because we could spend that money in a different way if we could save something, if we weren't okay. But we don't have any analysis, we don't have anything, and now I'm going back to Mr. Pavlovich and his proposal. Honestly, we talked a little while ago, and you said they're different now, so there's something that can be confirmed in the assembly. However, do not forget that provision would remain in the law, and if a new wave were to occur, a more dangerous wave would then be within the law. Then how would we act? Then could we really gather here and make those decisions and confirm those decisions in the assembly? That's the question, we have to take care of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95291	And now Mr. Marian Pavliček will speak on behalf of the promoter in the final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95292	Dearly beloved, I'm sorry I had to crack all the lines before my colleague, Boric, came for the pay phone, but I'm only young for my first term, I'll learn. But let's go back to the metrics. Namely, in his exposition in the lack of arguments, Boric went with insult. So he said that the former president revealed us that this is pure politics, that we are equidistant, etc., I will not mention former HDZ presidents, some are in prison, with some of you personally. Members of the top break deleted under literal, I stick to the one about the exes all the best. And as for the headquarters itself, so here is what Boric said that we all swore before the Constitution that we would respect the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's right, all of us Parliamentarians, so some say they don't follow that law and that Constitution. And that's true, some of them are as much as I think they are from the ruling majority in custody of this parliamentary mandate. I think it's 2-3, it had to be removed by emergency procedure because they were detained. If I'm wrong, you correct me. And as for the decision of headquarters, one more time. In two years, we've learned a lot about this Covid pandemic. We learned how this virus behaves. And indeed in the beginning this headquarters really had the absolute support of almost all Croatian citizens because there was something unknown. And I was head of the Civil Protection Staff of the city of Vukovar and at first we were absolutely all, I would even say all the members of the local headquarters supported those decisions, but in time it was seen that these decisions were highly politically motivated. I was first on several occasions, as we were on the line over the motoroline with frontal personnel, criticising certain measures because I felt that these measures did not bring about the suppression of the virus and that they were hardly even enforceable on the ground, because unlike those who had taken those measures in their office, I was down in the field with people and I knew that some measures would not be taken and that some measures would only be taken to bring them because, as the paper says, everything suffers. So then you had a game of measures that, at 4 squares, you can have one person then you come to the West Gate and it says you can enter 15,273 people according to epidemiological measures. Come on, please, come on. Like I said, here's what I'm saying today, as soon as the cameras go out, you're all gonna take off your masks. Come on, please, let's not be Pharisees. Let's face it if something went wrong and it's not a problem to admit it. I don't mind even saying that certain measures were good, but also that there were measures that were definitely not epidemiologically justified. We're all sensitive maybe the most to children. So a month ago, the headquarters decided on voluntary testing of children in primary schools, but immediately upon making that decision, the same headquarters said this measure would be implemented for a month, after which it would cease to work because there is no more crown after a month among children. Come on, please. It just shows how unserious it is just that people have already deafened to it. No one checks the parents and those who took the tests did they really test their children here, are they even parents expert in testing children, and that's what the question is? Let us not make healthy children with this spiral that we will not be able to get out of as a society. So look at the situation three years ago. Turn on daily and first 15 minutes every day tell you today in Croatia that the lung cancer has made 57 people sick, of colon cancer 23 people, stroke today 17 people, leukemia 15 people, of which on chemotherapy 50 people. And that someone repeats it to you every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, what you've done, sick company. You've created a sick society out of a healthy society. But what I particularly want to point out is that this headquarters is unworthy. When a commanding man of headquarters does not adhere to the own measures that he signs in 474 because I counted them all last night and was taken in the Spaladium Arena without a mask on his face 30 cm away from his closest associates, he does not respect the social distance we have more to talk about, everything falls into the water. There's absolutely everything falling into the water. And you can accuse us that this is politics, this has nothing to do with politics. I really believe that we have come to the stage that this is no longer an elemental disaster in the sense that the decision has to be made within 15 minutes. I really think we should open a debate once every two weeks about decisions like this. So you stand behind your headquarters and justify those measures, and the good part of you doesn't agree with those measures, but okay political discipline, the party discipline is that way it works, and that's normal for me, but I know what you're saying in the halls when we get out. ...we respect, but respect us and our opinion. This headquarters lost credibility precisely because of such measures that were not often justified by the epidemiological situation, they were often contradictory to themselves. And then don't go against the opposition that the opposition is to blame because we have a large number of infected and mortality among the highest in the EU per million inhabitants. So the opposition is to blame for everything negative, and for everything positive, you're bearing glory. Well, that's not how it works, then you're responsible for everything. But I'd like the citizens here to see how you Parliamentarians can mostly advocate that children have to wear masks inside the school only on a five-minute break. I've worked for 10 years in education, and seven hours at a time can be 45 minutes in class with my 25 other classmates without a mask on their faces. So you defend that measure if you think it's justified, and it's not justified because there's someone out there who's been thinking about four of them who bring these measures every day, and you're not going to say, hey, hey, it's not like that. Oppose you sometimes say what you think, you won't just raise your hand. That's why we think it would be better to have a decision here, and that's when the headquarters and the measures would gain credibility. Of course it's legal, the law is passed and that's it, but again I'm saying it's according to the law, but the headquarters was called together without quorum, decisions were made without quorum, not all members of headquarters were called together, not 50% of headquarters, but four people made decisions, two of which were only associated members of headquarters. Here I call once again on you to accept this amendment to the Civil Protection System Act because we believe it is in the interest of the headquarters itself, the epidemiological situation and democracy in Croatia. I would like to say this way that we will not accept the SDP amendment because we feel that this is losing the meaning of this proposal, but no matter what I do to all of you, no matter what political options you come from, I thank you for the debate that you have set aside your time and said your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95293	Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary Mr. Masterovic. My colleague, I'm really very sorry that you've been here alone, it's like a proposal to me that would be terrible. But okay, that's just my impression. No, this is the moment a colleague came in. I saw that he's in now. It's kind of awful to me, but okay. Here they come, here they come Please give me back my time [[Intruder Pavliček: No, they weren't there all the time.]] Okay, then I'll cut it short. [[Intruder Radin: Not the time, the chronometer, time cannot return.]] Since you were the head of your local headquarters, then I am deeply troubled by the fact that you were obviously not well explained in that education, they did not learn. There's one rule that you probably know by at least a name called the Staff Regulations, the mode of operation and conditions, etc., that I don't have all because I don't have any more time, so it's interesting one article called 11, I was hoping that you'd study it now while I said it for the first time, so you didn't, which defines exactly who decides who decides who can, who shouldn't be those guys, and then you wouldn't say that they didn't meet, they didn't make decisions. You've got a little bit of a twist on the thesis, so it's not good that you're doing it like that, you've been the head of the headquarters who's been working in a way that's just been prescribed by this regulation, so here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95295	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95296	It's right you're right I was headed by headquarters, but it wasn't an extraordinary situation that headquarters couldn't be called up. It was not up to this level of emergency that most of the headquarters could not be convened. As I convened the civil protection headquarters meetings of the city of Vukovar, they came largely all or went through the video, so that the quorum could always be held. We live in the 21st century it wasn't a situation that someone couldn't have reported as a member of the headquarters at the head of Croatian waters, so it may be in Osijek, so it could have appeared in a video link. So technology is at an extremely high level in the 21st century, and headquarters could always be called up no matter what an extraordinary situation, circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95297	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95298	Thank you. The 238th colleague is not telling the truth, so... In the 13th century, 1st century, 1st century says, “in general, adapting the mode of work to the really created circumstances, the headquarters can work in full or narrow composition at sessions” and that I don’t read it any further. So let's be specific and say that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95299	The Rules of Procedure don't work, I can say it so you don't have to, so I have to give you a heads-up. You wrote together that Rules of Procedure the most responsible for this Rules of Procedure are SDP and HDZ or HDZ and SDP, and then you set up a second time to be different so that you can deal and truth. ... [[Intruder Pavlik: Truth.]] Mrs. Vuciilovic, do you want to do it anyway? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95300	I will. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Thank you, beautiful.]] I sit here the whole time, my colleague Pavliček did not remain alone, however, a colleague of the coat of arms, Bujević, hurt his ankle. 238, because Minister Beros means he himself said that the vast majority of these over 400 measures were brought by four people. Let's make it 5%, 10%, 15. But 90%, 95% is a little too much. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95301	Time, time, time. And listen, I don't think you've ever won, never taken your word from you before, and you've experienced it today. The third warning involves taking away words because it was a replica. Besides, I answered Mrs. Bujevic, which is why I told you that you didn't have to. Mr. Pavić, come in. It's a replica, thank God. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95302	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's a question. When you wrote this amendment and supplementing the law, did you think about categorizing these measures by the Staff in some way, so that you could put certain measures, or categories of measures, into the law to discuss them in the Assembly and to confirm them in the Assembly. Why do I ask you that? There is, for example, one measure that has not been adopted, which is a mandatory vaccination measure. So she's never been brought in. It could be discussed in the Parliament. Why? Because it's a long-term period of application. Does it make sense that now we're discussing whether you can go to school tomorrow or not, and the students are going to school the other day? So we can't discuss it because there's already some kind of shop going on before we make the decision. Is it a decision to wear masks, is the decision on covid certificates for discussion in the Parliament and within what time. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]] That's all, so it would be good to categorize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95303	Here's your answer. Mr. Pavic, I'm sorry, I think. Here you go. [[Intruder Pavić: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95304	Thank you very much. So I think it's impossible to categorize measures, so we were just going to protect the public from infectious diseases. We didn't go to the headquarters to take measures, i.e. that other measures must be confirmed for natural disasters, floods, earthquakes and so on because we know what this is about. Thank you again, everyone. There's a few of us, but there's a lot of us. There's my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-03-0.u95305	And get some rest, all of you. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and besides a good wish for rest, we have little information. Tomorrow at 9.30 we continue working with the Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Session interrupted at 17.22 p.m. Good morning, thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you, morning. Fellow representatives, in accordance with the law of the Member States, shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 10th session agenda from the new 5 points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections on the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 10th session and therefore we can begin work.
