ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u102734	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all most, and I would like to ask your attention so that we can begin with our work. Just one technical note before the start of the vote, as you can see, colleague Miro Totgergeli is due to the Corona virus in isolation and in accordance with Article 239b. The Rules of Procedure shall vote by electronic means of video. I welcome him on behalf of all of us, and I want to, and I wish him a quick recovery. Since we're all back in the assembly and we're voting by electronic card, I suggest that an employee of the Professional Service on my left presses the key the way Agent Totgergeli raises his hand, it's sorry it's an associate, an employee of the Professional Service, so we have a full voting record. I hope you all agree, we don't have to collect. There you will see him and the voice that is in his name. Thank you for understanding. We're going to the agenda now. In accordance with Article 226(2), We've got 16 new points on our rules of procedure. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have not been objected to to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 11th session. It is of particular importance that among them is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for '22. and a projection for '23. And in '24, we'll discuss it next Wednesday, so as the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103133	Now, as we announced, we're going to take a stand. The first registered representative, Miro Bulj, is on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103134	Here is today when we will vote on the abolition of the Croatian currency here is when the 100 years of the first Croatian president are celebrated and when we remember the Bleibur tragedy and all these victims and all the victims through the history that we have today will be abolished by the Croatian Kuna. I think that the moment is, I don't think, but I know it's not good because at this point in inflation, the economic crisis, the price hikes we see that there's a shock on all sides, that people just don't know what's going to happen, and so is the market. So the euro is symbolically extinguished when we celebrate the 100 years of the birth of the first Croatian president and when we celebrate it means, when we remember the victims of the Bleibur tragedy. So here I would just go for a short while now what's going to happen, what's going on and what's not to be thought about. The Croatian government said there are no large energy gatherings and that we are well in control of the market. Unfortunately for all this about gas, the costs of the city of Zagreb and Plinara, I don't know in what way they actually want to get into undeveloped areas, and I'll tell you how. That's what I was talking to the prime minister about, but he didn't hear it through the parliamentary question, because it doesn't matter to him, because he's going to solve Russia's problem. It's just that I'm not freeing Ukraine so convincingly acts here in front of us. It is regrettable that he forgot the Croatian man at this time, so I will tell you again, again loudly to hear the prime minister and minister professor he wants to call himself extraordinary that is this Filipovic. He says he wrote officially that that's what he has to be called, so I'm going to warn him of a huge problem mainly in mountain-mounted areas. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm still gonna talk in a quiet voice until I call the people out on the street. We have a down A1, unfortunately, part of one that's abandoned, because there's no point in talking anymore. It's collected electricity, electricity, water lines. Just an example of the Cetina landscape from 2 and a half million to 10 and a half million kuna. 500 percent and who's gonna pay for it now? HEP that gets 40% of the hydropower from Cetina. 40% of the Republic of Croatia's hydropower, more than three times what Krško nuclear power plant gives the Republic of Croatia. And now this poor people have collected electricity for water to reach home 500 percent more energy. And what would they want now? If they had washed their hands like a pill, we only collected 10% of the electricity, electricity, and in fact 500 percent. You must understand that a company in the Cetin region that feeds the hinterland of Split liquidity is at risk, drinking water delivery is at risk.. The company has 22 million kunas per year, 2 and a half million last year paid for electricity, and this year in the purchase of 10 and a half million. What am I supposed to do now? Would you like to pick up that poor girl's water to my house? And they don't know how to survive in these areas, instead of helping Prime Minister Plenkovic wash his pilator hands and warm the gaskers of war's debt in Ukraine, the tribal would pay the mountain-mounted areas, and the reason is simple. The pumping stations to the pool must rise to altitude in hill-mounted areas in order for water to reach households., And at this point it is calculated by now winter when it works less electric pumps, and in the summer time and tourist season it will be double. The supply of water to households in the Brdsko-Mountain areas, as well as Split, has been compromised. And if that current and mystic backwater go off now, there's Zagor's back, what's left for us? Turn off the power, so if my water comes downhill, it doesn't come to me. We don't have another chance anymore. I'm not going to talk about this anymore, they're taking this seriously. I would only ask the prime minister to take seriously that the poor Croatian from two-thirds of the forgotten Croatia, two-thirds of the surface means Like, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, the mountain-mounted mountainous areas cannot pay HEP costs and other gases. Well, it's not our fault for the war in Ukraine. Certainly, Prime Minister Plenkovic will take care of it. That it was '91. It seems to me that they would have freed me a long time ago. Who knows where they'd come from? All the way to Japan in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103411	Here is the statement of view on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club of Honored Representative Ante Prkačina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103412	So, colleagues and colleagues aren't numerous, but it doesn't matter. In the last two free speeches I have shown it seems very clear to me that through a dozen examples of this Croatian-Yugoslav anti-fascism as the sale of fog in huge quantities and 30 years of continuity. And I wouldn't even be talking about it if there wasn't a lot of reactions and a particularly interesting letter that I got five minutes ago. So part of the letter that's most interesting. The man says: “I followed your exposure to antifascism with interest. It's an interesting syntagma of anti-fascist wave coins. You have shown proper cunning by bringing very interesting and public unknown details of the anti-fascist days of the Chetnik Duke of Crime Draž Mihajlovic." Now that I'm very cunning, I don't know, but well. "I believe that the verified data would not have been nice and you would have experienced real indignation if these claims proved to be false. In your ten-minute address to the nation, this seems most impressive to me. For the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, one MP claims and explains that the notoral war criminal was one of the greatest in these areas and was an antifascist for at least one time. It is clear that you did not say this, nor that you are defending Draž Mihajlovic, but perhaps that you are defending the truth but you are Croatian anti-fascists or so on. Antifascists as you say come out of shoes. I'm just curious about the reactions on the other side if they're gonna be, this man's worth taking him out for drinks and dinner. That's what I was gonna say. And as for Draža Mihajlovic, I'm going to add two more things, and I'm going to add the fact that Broz offered to be commander of the joint Partisan Chetnik army. And another very important fact that Serbia, let alone in Croatia, is that it is early in the 12 months of '41. In the year, the German army attacked the Dražin camp in Ravna Gora, pardoned Draža barely made it out alive, captured 70, 80% of the soldiers among them and the Duke of Alexander, or Major Alexander Misic, the son of the Serbian hero from World War I, the Duke of Živojin Visic, and was shot in Valjevo. So much so, the goal is to show me, and I feel like I've done it, that anti-fascism is what my Bosnians would say through the Sava and nothing else. And otherwise, I would have to talk about the letter of Father Alexander the Archbishop of the unrecognizable Croatian Orthodox Church and his open letter to a large number of addresses in Croatia. We had here yesterday a formal opera session of the Croatian Government where we were largely honored guests of the papal nuncio, Cardinal Kuharić, pardon me God Cardinal Bozanić and the esteemed archbishop Želimir Puljic. They are welcome to a working session, not at a formal session, because in Croatia the state is a great religious roshomon and not on faith, but on religious communities. In Croatia, a large number of Ukrainian refugees enter the country, and God forbid they stay here because 85% of militaryly qualified people come from Ukraine, and 10, 15% of women and children, but vice versa, unlike some other refugees for whom they are paid. So, let these Ukrainians stay here, but they cannot be extradited to the arms of the Serbian Orthodox Church as soon as the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, based on the thirty-year-old Tomosa, has gained self-certifiedness, and the Russian Orthodox Church has come into conflict with it, and immediately thereafter the Serbian Orthodox Church. And this Serbian Orthodox church that is here is what it is that I do not repeat everything I have said to the church dignitaries of that people to the arms of the Serbian Orthodox Church. So in 120 years, you'll be Serbs like Croatian Orthodoxs two, three hundred years ago turned into Serbs and today we actually have them thank God, today we don't have them but we can handle them as much as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103413	Thank you. Here's what we've done with this part of the attitude. We'll continue at noon. Now we'll take a break by noon. There's a vote at noon. It's 10.21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u103764	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, this morning I led the delegation of the Croatian Parliament, which laid a crown on the grave of the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman for the 100th anniversary of his birth. Dr. Franjo Tudjman was a historian and statesman who turned his vision into reality, and his vision was a sovereign, democratic and free Croatian equal member of the European family. He well understood the broader political context in the then world and recognized the crucial moment for the Croatian people's longing for their country. But the way to that goal was thorny and difficult, demanding exceptional political and state skills and above all love for his people and his homeland. I'd like to take a few key moments. The first multiparty elections, the establishment of the Croatian Parliament, the Christmas Constitution, the referendum and two historic decisions on the end of all state legal ties with the former Yugoslavia. After that international recognition of Croatia and the great victory in the Liberation Homeland War, it is crowned with Bled and Storm, and the peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunov. We are free to say that Franjo Tudjman laid the foundations of the modern Croatian state and his vision is surrounded by Croatia's entry into the EU and NATO. Apart from Franjo Tudjman, the Croatian defenders have great merit for free and independent Croatia, especially those who have laid down their lives. Thank them all one more time. Dear MPs and MPs, President Tudjman, led a policy that always put the interests of the Croatian people and the Croatian state first. On the 100th anniversary of his birth, we give him a lasting thanks for everything he has done for our country in the creation of a free and sovereign Croatia he has built his whole life. They still loudly echo his words always and everything for Croatia, and our only and eternal Croatia for nothing. Please, now, with a minute of silence, honor the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. May his glory be eternal, and thank him! We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, Second Reading, P.Z. number 182. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The Social Democrats' club proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, P.Z. the number 182 is referred to in the third reading and second, it is up to the applicant to consider any observations, proposals and opinions raised in the debate in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Before the vote, he called for a break from his colleague, Lerotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u104914	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues I am looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club regarding the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act to point out and make it clear why we will support it, although we are aware that the law we have at the vote is not ideal, has its faults. [[Intruder President: Please colleagues and colleagues please!]] What we are pleased with, which is to prohibit the parcel of agricultural land less than 1 hectare, because for many years we have clearly pointed out problems that are happening in Istria County but also along the Adriatic coast, which is that this agricultural area is being plotted to a surface of 400 to 500 square meters, creating serious preconditions for the illegal construction that we have witnessed and I repeat what we have been pointing to for many years. Who does that? Well, one small part is done by our fellow citizens, but one large part by foreign citizens who come from one, so I'm not going to say arranged but definitely somewhat more orderly countries than Croatia, such as Slovenia, Austria, Germany and Italy to what? To devastate the space we live in. Because once a devastated space can never return to its original state. Unfortunately, we live in a country where we are willing to spend billions of euros to buy planes, to protect the Croatian sky, and on the other hand we do not have enough wishes, will to protect Croatia's space and Croatian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u104915	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u104916	I thank the chairman. So on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, I also ask for a break of at least 10 minutes. So today we are passing one of the most important laws to create the future of Croatian villages. In the Croatian village, life has become impossible, so over 600,000 people are responsible for leaving the rural space and I personally believe that this has been done by the policies so far. The law in force, so the 2018 law was not a bad law at all. We're changing it without analyzed it before that. We do not know what effects he has received primarily because the mayors, or mayors, municipalities, cities, units of local self-government have obstructed his implementation. We didn't deal with the reasons why. Of the 450 units of local self-government, only 90 of them fulfilled their legal obligation and made proposals for the availability of agricultural land and delivered them to the ministry for validation, therefore for approval. This means that this rule in the Republic of Croatia is not respected, the laws are not respected. So, there's no respect for the government's trinity, and we're going to change and supplement a law that we don't even know what effects it's had so far. Therefore, the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations has not been applied and we do not have an analysis of the situation so far. In addition, we do not have a register of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is therefore the Office for Auditing I found in his report, where he said the ministry must make and the fat ones are late. So for a number of years this provision exists must make a register of existing land, it must be known who uses this land, at which price and whether the lease is paid. Unfortunately, we don't have it either, and it's been rejected by this bill. I hope the Croatian public is aware that there is a large number All these injustices and irregularities in the countryside are generated by the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u104917	Thank you very much, colleague Vukovac. The apartment is approved, but we'll move on. So I'm going to vote now on the proposal for a conclusion of the Social Democrats Club, which the government does not accept, so let's vote. The conclusion did not receive the required number of votes. 110 voted, 34 for, 76 against. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. Let's go in turn have them now I'll tell you exactly 63. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment by MP Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The third SDP representative club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The fourth representative, Ruzica Vukovac, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Fifth, MP Dalia Oreshkovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th and 7th amendments of the SDSS MPs club have been withdrawn. The eighth amendment of the SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The ninth amendment of the Committee on Agriculture has been accepted. The tenth amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS was accepted by the Government in an amended form, with which the applicant agreed and in the amended form there was an integral part of the law. The 11th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 12th amendment of MP Marin Mandaric has been withdrawn. The 13th Amendment of MPs Ljubomir Kolarek and Goran Ivanovic was accepted by the Government in an amended form, the applicants agree and this amendment becomes an integral part of the Law in amended form. The 14th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 15, MP Ruzica Vukovac, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 16th Amendment The club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives has been withdrawn. 17., SDP MPs' club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 18, the Committee on Agriculture has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. The 19th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 20th amendment of the Green-Left bloc advocate club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 21st Amendment, Commissioner Marin Mandaric, the Government accepts the amended form, the applicant agrees and the modified form of amendments becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. 22. Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 23rd representative of Rose Vukovac, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 24th Amendment of MP Lenart, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 26th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has been withdrawn. 27. A SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 28th Representative Dalia Oreshic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 29th Amendment to the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 25th Amendment of MP Marin Mandaric has been withdrawn. 31st Representative Dalia Oreshic, the government does not accept. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 32nd, the SDP counseling club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 33rd Representative Dalia Oreshic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 34, the SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 35. The SDP representative club has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. 36. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Once again, the SDP advocates' club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 38th Representative Dalia Oreshic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 39. The SDSS representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives has been adopted, as has 41. The Agriculture Committee. 42nd Representative Rose Vukovac, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 43rd amendment by representatives of Silvan Hrelje, the government accepted in a changed form. The MP agreed and in the amended form of amendments became an integral part of the law. The 44th Amendment of the same representative has been withdrawn. The 45th Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture was adopted in an amended form, with which the Committee agreed to become an integral part of the law in the amended form. 46. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we have three amendments, 47. SDP's Club of Representatives, 48th, Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia and 49th Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic, The Government does not accept them, so we will only vote once because they are identical content. Let's vote. The amendments were not accepted. The 50th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 51. The SPD representative club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 52nd, the same club the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 53. Agriculture Committee and 54. The SDP advocates' club is identical content and the government accepts them. The amendment of 55th legislator Marin Mandaric was accepted by the government in a changed form, and he agreed to the amendment in the amended form become an integral part of the law. The 56th Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture has been withdrawn. 57. The SPD representative club has been accepted. 58. The National Movement's club doesn't accept it. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, 59, is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 60. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. Kolarek-Ivanovic's 61st representative has been withdrawn. 62. The Legislative Committee also adopted 63. The Legislative Committee has been adopted, so we will now join the vote. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Please, let's vote. I find that 116 MPs and MPs, 78 for and 38 against, have voted and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act has thus been adopted. We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 235. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The Social Democrats' Club suggested that HS draw a conclusion that reads as follows: "1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool and Education Act, P.Z. No. 235 is referred to in the third reading and 2. It is up to the promoter to consider all the comments and proposals and opinions raised in the debate in order to draw up a final draft of the law." The government does not accept this conclusion, so we must vote. Here you go. It voted 115 MPs and MPs, 39 for, 76 v, the conclusion is therefore not accepted, so we are now moving to amendments on the same law, this time we have 86 amendments. Let's take it in a row. 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SPD, 2. The Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and the 3rd Representatives of Selak Rasudić are identical content the government does not accept, so let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 4th Amendment of the SPD Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 5. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Six. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 7, 8 and 9. Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia, MPs Selak Rasdic and MPs Peovic are identical content the government does not accept them, so let's vote on all three amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 10th Amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we have four identical amendments 11, 12, 13 and 14. The Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia, MPs Selak Raspoudić and representative Katarina Peović the government does not accept and we must vote on all four. Let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 15th Amendment of Representative Zurovec is not accepted by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 16 of the same representative has been withdrawn. 17th, 18th, pardon and 19th are identical content the government does not accept them are amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SPD, Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia and MPs Peović, so the government does not accept them, so we must vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 20th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 21. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 22. The same club the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 23. The same club the government doesn't accept. He didn't make it. 24. The centre and GLAS representatives club is not accepted by the government. He didn't make it. Dalija Oreshkovic, 25, is not accepted by the government. Not even this amendment has passed. The 26th, 27th, 28th and 29th amendments are identical content, the government does not accept them, and we will only vote on them once. These are amendments to the SDP, Centre and GLAS Club, for the just Croatia and MPs Selak Rasdic, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 30th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 31. The SDP representative club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 32, '3rd, '4th. And '5. They're identical content, the government doesn't accept them. These are amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, for the just Croatia, representative Selak Rasdić and representatives of Katarina Peović. Let's vote, let's vote on all four amendments. The amendments didn't get enough votes. 36. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 37. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 38. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 39th Representative Dario Zurovec, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments 41, '2. And '3. They're identical content, the government doesn't accept them. These are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, MPs Selak Rasdic and representatives of Katarina Peovic, so we must vote on them. No, they didn't get the votes they needed. 44. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 45th of the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 46th of the same club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 47. Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 48. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 49th Zurovec, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 50th Amendment of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 51. Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 52. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 53rd and 54th amendments are identical content, the government doesn't accept them, so we'll only vote on them once. Representatives are Selak Rasdic and Katarina Peović, let's vote. He didn't get it, they didn't get the votes they needed. 55, Zurovec, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 56, 57 and 58 are identical content, the government does not accept them. The amendments are the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia and Representatives Selak Rasdic, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. 59. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 60th, 61st and 62th are identical content of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia and Representative Selak Rasudiæ, the government does not accept them, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. 63. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 64th and 65th. The Club of Representatives For the Righteous Croatia and representative Selak Rasdic are identical, the government does not accept them. Let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendments 66, 67, 68 and 69 are identical content of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia and Representative Selak Rasdić. So the government doesn't accept them, so let's vote on all four amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 70th Amendment, MP Dario Zurovec, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 71st representative of Dalia Oreshkovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 72nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP was accepted. 73. The SDP representative club is not accepting, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 74, 75, and 76 are identical content, the government doesn't accept them, we'll vote on them all at once. These are the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia, the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club and the representative Selak Rasdic. Let's vote please. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 77th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 78th Representative Dario Zurovec, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 79, 80 and 81. The Club of Representatives For Fair Croatia, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and MPs Selak Rasdić are identical content, the government does not accept them, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Catherine Peovic, 82, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Eighty-three representatives of Zurovec, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 84 and 85. The SDP and Centre and GLAS representatives club are identical content, the government does not accept them, so let's vote on both amendments. They didn't get the votes they needed. And Maria Selak Rasudic's latest amendment, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. Please, let's vote. I find that 120 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 44 were against and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106232	We have... Today at noon, but we have another point, we have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106233	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of HS discussed the 26th electronic session held on 11 May 2022. written request by MP Tomislav Ćorić submitted on 2 May 2022. informing the President of the HS that, on 29 April 2022, the incompatible duty of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development has ceased and is in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 13th century 1 of the Law on election of MPs in HS filed a request for re-behaving as a representative. The commission also discussed Tomislav Ćoric's request submitted to the president of HS on 2 May 2022 for the term of office to be settled in accordance with Article. 14th century 1 of the Law with the date of the activation of the mandate. The commission found that Tomislav Ćorić, elected on the HDZ list in the 7th Election Unit, began on 22 July 2020 because of the incompatibility of the office of Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development from art. 9 The Law and that the deputy deputy deputy is acting Majda Buric since 25 June 2021, because Tomislav Ćorić is in accordance with the article. 13th century 1 of the Law submitted a written request for the suspension of the term of office of the President of HS within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law for the stay of MP Tomislav Ćorić's term of office were laid down on 8 days from the date of submission of the written request. The commission also found that Tomislav Ćoric submitted a written request to the head of the HS for the term of office and that, in accordance with Article. 14 laws, and that are in accordance with Article. 14 Laws met by law laid down the conditions for the start of Tomislav Ćorić's term of office and the continuation of the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Majda Buric. Following the above mentioned, the Commission shall, on the basis of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall propose to the HS a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the commencement of the term of office of representative in such a way that, on 10 May 2022, Tomislav Ćorić's term of office ceases to stand still in accordance with the provision of the Article. 13th century 1 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in HS, and on 10 May 2022, Tomislav Ćorić shall begin to rest under the provision of the article. 14th century 1 Law on election of MPs in HS. I can do the other one right now, right? At its 26th session, held on 11 May 2022, the mandate-immunity committee of HS discussed the written request of Representative Josip Aladrović, on 2 May 2022, informing the president of the HS that, on 2 May 2022, he had been informed by the president of HS that he had ceased his incompatible duties as Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and was in accordance with Article 2022. 13th century 1 of the Law on election of MPs in HS filed a request for re-behaving as a representative. The commission also discussed Joseph Aladrovic's request submitted to the president of HS on 2 May 2022 for the term of office to be settled in accordance with Article. 14th century 1 of the Law with the date of the activation of the mandate. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Josip Aladrovic, elected on the HDZ list in the 5th constituency began on 22 July 2020 because of the incompatibility of the job of the Minister of Labour, the pension system, the family and the social policy of the Member State. 9 Laws and that his deputy Anamarija Blažević started acting as deputy deputy because Josip Aladrović is in line with the article. 13th century 1 of the Law submitted a written request for the suspension of the term of office of the President of HS within the legal period, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law for the rest of the representative Josip Aladrovic's term of office ended on 8 days from the date of submission of the written request. The commission also found that Josip Aladrovic submitted a written request to the president of the HS for the term of office in office and that they were in accordance with the article. 14 Laws fulfilled by law lay down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Josip Aladrović and the continuation of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Anamarija Blažević. Following the above mentioned, the Commission shall, on the basis of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the commencement of the term of office of representative in such a way that on 10 May 2022, the term of office of representative Josip Aladrovic ceases to stand still in accordance with the provision of the Article. 13th century 1 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in HS and on 10 May 2022, the rest of the term of office of Josip Aladrović shall begin on the basis of the provision of an article. 14th century 1 Law on election of MPs in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106234	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Here's your line, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106235	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. What Mr. Jankovics read has two dimensions. One is legal. Former ministers use the right they have under the law not to return to parliament after the term of office but to remain 6+6. I'm not going to moralize anyone, but I think that provision should be amended because if one of us MPs decides to cancel his term and leave for six months on vacation, he won't have the right to 6+6. The political dimension is next, which is that former Minister Coric and former Minister Aladrovic decided to take the path of former Minister Horvat. I don't mean the fever of Saturday morning, but this, what they did, exactly became a pattern of behavior. A fellow Milosevic had to return to the Parliament because he was not changed by law, and these other bereaved, spent ministers went on colding for 6 months to 6+6 and then to the reserve position. Just to be determined for the record that She didn't miss her wake at 4:00 in the morning. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106236	Time's up. Do you have any answers maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106237	So on behalf of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is a very heterogeneous body of this HS, I can only say that the topic you said is not something that the Mandate-Immunity Commission decides on. It was our mandate to determine whether our two colleagues' demands were in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or whether they were entitled to return to the Croatian Parliament after their incompatible duty and whether they had the right to put their mandate in place for personal reasons or not during the term of office. That was our mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106238	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue the session this morning at 9.30 p.m. with a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. Have a good morning! SESSION Interrupted at 4.05 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u106239	How's that joke, Stef? Come on, concentrate! Let's go a little bit longer. A report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Josip Aladrovic and the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Josip Aladrovic. The debate is closed. I am voting on the decision to suspend the term of office of representative Josip Aladrovic and the start of the term of office of representative Josip Aladrovic. Please, let's vote. 114 MPs and MPs voted, 105 were against, 9 were against, and a decision was made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. A report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of MP Tomislav Ćorić's term of office and the start of Tomislav Ćorić's term of office. The debate is closed. I am voting on the decision to suspend MP Tomislav Ćorić's term of office and to begin the stay of Tomislav Ćoric's representative's term of office. Please, let's vote. 113 MPs and MPs voted, 103 for, 10 against, and a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Convincing of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 266, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on the Convincing of Signatures, Scriptures and Transcripts; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Let's vote. 118 MPs and MPs voted, all in favour, so it was unanimously concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The 174th century of the 5th law, which we are introducing the euro where it was obliged to show an assessment of the effects of this regulation on the introduction of the euro, which you haven't done mainly now in inflation, now that they're jumping prices, means this law has been illegally given to us to abolish the euro. So I'm asking you to withdraw this law and finally have the waist say your confrontations and your opinions and give it to the people for a referendum, is this rape today? Dr. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tudjman 100 years old, you're removing the kuna against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107394	Comrade Bulj thank you very much, colleague Bulj please stop now, I'm warning you, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. We also have a request for a break, colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107395	Dear President, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club of 10 minutes to point out once again that while most of the assembly clubs today discuss the ideology of our Croatian sovereigns, how our citizens will survive the month when we enter the eurozone, how our pensioners, how our workers will live when we have the euro. In fact, to enter the euro area during the time of the EU's biggest energy crisis, at a time of greatest economic uncertainty, during the time of EU's greatest inflation in the last 20 years. It's really crazy. It is said that laws exist to respect them, not to violate them, and rules exist for them, criteria exist to meet them. In fact, of the 4 convergence criteria, Croatia will certainly not meet the inflation criteria, however, with the ruling desire to enter the eurozone. Don't put your throat into strawberries, don't come out like geese in the fog, it wouldn't be the first time in our history. I mean, does anyone wonder how a 40-year-old pensioner is gonna do? Worktime and 300 euros in pension will survive the month when a loaf of bread will cost two euros, it is easy to talk when there is a salary of two, two and a half thousand euros, but how will one who works for 550-600 euros in this country survive? I therefore call once again on you to consider and not support this law because many who support today will cry for the Croatian Kuna, and most Croatian citizens whom you did not want to ask in a referendum what they think of entering the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107396	Stanka has been approved, but we also have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107397	Thank you. He's been injured. 238nd colleague Pavliček, a well-intentioned remark, so we are dealing systematically with these issues, besides, you will all, after this vote on the law proposed by the government, have the opportunity to vote on the conclusion of the Most Club and please all representatives' clubs to support this conclusion on the delay in the introduction of the euro to the Republic of Croatia, because it is simple and therefore not the time for economicists to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107398	You know you deserve a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107399	Article 238, not only did we propose a conclusion on inflation and the euro, but we brought first Governor Vujcic here to discuss exactly that inflation that shows that it is not the right time to introduce the euro. And what does the government do? Today he admits the de facto that by discretionary decision, regardless of the level of our inflation, he will introduce the euro, I will not say through corpses but through our empty baskets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107400	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I don't know where the breach of the Rules of Procedure was, you gave a 30-second speech, but there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107401	Article 238, so we have made certain conclusions, we have warned the ruling that we are plowing really like geese in the fog even though we have called for the timely CNB to come and explain not only inflation but also the CNB. Unfortunately, the Croatian National Bank was not present at any Euro Law presentation, and is the leading institution to work on the implementation of the euro in Croatia. That means that the law is not adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107402	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning. You don't need to explain yourself. Comrade Bulj, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107403	Thank you very much. A colleague of Troscott injured Article 238 because the CNB is everything, after the CNB, and in the future, we would like to ask all parliamentary representatives to join Vujčić's Camalil, reinforced with Coric, announce that we no longer call it after today to the Croatian National Bank. They did everything to bring the Croatian people into this situation. We don't have a gram of gold, they've sold out our gold, now they're bringing in the euro, they're cutting off the kuna at the most difficult moment we remember... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107404	You're getting a second warning from your colleague Bulj. We're going to the amendments now. So, the 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government doesn't accept it, we have to vote. Comrade Totgergeli, are you in favour, abstention, against? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the Green-Left Bloc Club's amendments, four are amendments, the government doesn't accept them, so we're going in a row. 1st Amendment, let's vote. A fellow Totgergeli for, abstention, v? Against. It might be a good idea for you to say it so I don't have to ask you every time, slow down the work, then you can say it against her, too. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two, let's vote again. Green-left block of the same club of MPs. Feel free to say she'll see what you've said. So tell your colleague Totgergeli, so, well, men. He did not receive the required number of votes or this amendment. Tell my colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107406	Mr. President, I suggest that my colleague Totgergeli take the green, white and red paper and lift them, so we'll simply see how he voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u107407	Yeah, no, no. It's a good idea, it's a good idea, it's a good idea, but it's a good idea, I agree. [[Intruder: There's only blue.]] If you have a colleague with you accidentally red or green. All right, let's move on. 3rd Amendment to the Green-Left Block, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 4th Amendment Green Left Block, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. But here's another idea for a colleague of Totgergeli, they say when the thumb goes up, when it's against the thumbs down, maybe it's the easiest and the fastest. And when he's restrained, I think of some ideas. Okay, here we go, now we've voted on the amendments, we're going now with the conclusion of the Most Representatives' Club. For the reason that the Croatian economy is not structurally prepared for the introduction of the euro due to the general state of our economy, not the implementation of structural reforms, very low growth in labour productivity, the absence of visible convergence of income, lack of structural convergence as well as at least the questionable quality of our institutions, the Croatian Parliament postpones the vote on the final proposal of the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia until further notice. I am voting on this conclusion that the government does not accept. Let's vote. I find that 118 MPs and MPs voted, 13 were in favour, and 105 was against the fact that the conclusion was not reached and I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that 131 MPs and MPs voted, 117 were for, 1 abstention and 13 against, so the Law on the introduction of the euro as the official currency of the Republic of Croatia was passed. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance System Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 269. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance System Act is hereby adopted. And one. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Let's vote. 118 MPs and MPs voted, 117 for, 1 abstention, so we concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u108135	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few months we have all witnessed the rapid collapse of this government. It began with the arrest of Minister Horvat, but as it usually happens, it wasn't all. Investigations were opened against two other senior officials who and after an investigation of them had been opened for a long time remained to work in the government. Even so, in addition to the fact that criminal investigations have been opened against Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Aladrovic, your Prime Minister Plenkovic has not shown even the fundamental decency to apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for continuing to visit him in Mercedes since 2016 and leaving in police cars. The fact is, the attempt is so-called. The government's reconstruction failed before the reconstruction itself when you appointed Minister Horvat, Minister Paladin. Minister Paladin, I'm absolutely sure if he's not already going to be subject to the same criminal investigation that we've proven through the debate here on Parliament's disbandment. But that's not all, after the scandal over Minister Paladin's assets, Minister Beros also came in line. And what are we witnessing now? We are witnessing that an investigation is being carried out in his ministry, while Minister Beros calls for violations of the law, approves a violation of the law regulating abortion, and is supported by the prime minister. This government has failed. I urge you to vote in favour of our motion to disband the assembly. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u108136	Comrade Bencic, thank you a beautiful break has been granted. Here you go, colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u108137	The motion to disband the assembly, however it ended today in our vote, is primarily a political message. And not only did we put such a request here, but I would say in this country's highest representative body it is a political message and 70% of the citizens of this country who say that the country is going in the wrong direction. That should be taken with respect and respect. Why are we looking for confidence, not as much for us as for the MPs who have elected citizens but for the trust of those whom we have chosen as parliamentary representatives to lead and provide answers to the key issues both of the citizens of this country and of the country as a whole. In fact, in the term of the longest Croatian government president in the two governments, 25 people had to be replaced because of the dishonest ones, because of investigations, because of impolite actions, because of corruption, because of suspicion of abuse of positions, etc., all this proves that our prime minister's radars have obviously failed and that our requests for the replacement of certain ministers have not yielded results and fruit and that the time has come, and perhaps it would be a good opportunity to ask the citizens of this country for trust. What is the capacity of this government is best witnessed by the results it expresses and when it comes to restoration and when it comes to the fact that we have actually a stagnant growth rate that continues to keep us at the beginning of Europe and when we are unable to address even issues concerning the security of national policies of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u108138	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we will continue in accordance with Article 293b. and prepare for a possible final vote in this session. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Decision on the disbanding of the Assembly shall be adopted by a majority vote of all MPs 76. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. 131 MPs and MPs voted, 52 were in favour, 2 abstentions and 77 against and the decision to disband the Croatian Parliament did not go through, the proposal did not receive a sufficient number of votes. [[Applause.]] We are now going to the second proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most. The debate is closed, so again in accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and this decision, of course, is made by a majority of the votes of all MPs 76. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. This time 134 MPs and MPs voted, 57 for, 77 against, which means that neither did the proposal get the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109084	Here, as announced this morning, we move on to a declaration of amendments. First, on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 246. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-Left bloc MPs' club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Dear Secretary of State Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109085	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted. In particular, the State Hydrometeorological Institute shall be the Authority of the State Administration which performs the tasks referred to in Article 7(3) under the provisions of the law and shall ensure that the proposed sentence is carried out without delay unless the DHMZ is able to carry out those tasks. The DHMZ as a body of the state administration is obliged to ensure that transactions under its jurisdiction are carried out, given that the beneficiary of the appropriations and projects is RIC through which all the conditions for the implementation of the prescribed obligations are ensured. Furthermore, the current paragraph of the 15th Law reads: “Citizens as individuals or organised people of air protection in professional associations and associations contribute to achieving the objectives of protecting and improving air quality and implementing effective air protection and improvement. Therefore, this definition already fully ensures that citizens and associations are involved in actively achieving the objectives of protecting and improving air quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109086	Here, since there are no amendments to the amendment, then we will vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109087	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 246, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. We had a statement on the amendment earlier in the session. I am voting on that amendment that the government does not accept. There is no need for a number of votes, so I am voting on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act. Please, let's vote. We will pass this law unanimously with 115 votes in favour, so we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils and financing public needs in culture, first reading, P.Z. No. 274, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Let's vote. 117 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 14 abstentions and 27 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109689	On behalf of the promoter, Mirela Ahmetovic was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109690	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm simply sorry that colleague Karlic, who had an exhibit on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, left because he actually changed my course of debate. He says colleague Karlic that the problem of Mirela Cavide is the only problem and that we use here to create this sad fate and sad tragedy that she is experiencing. Mirelli Cavidi is going on to collect political points and not to see at all why we are now proposing amendments to the law, that is, a new law when there is already a law under which everything works. First, logically it doesn't stand because we sent this bill in 2019, secondly, no, what's most unfortunate is that Mrs. Myrele Chawide is all but not the only problem and that is the worst that is actually the consequence of the existing law, or the non-compliance of the law by the public health system. I was asked by my colleague litre earlier, so you're attacking HDZ, so they're actually the same attitudes as you. Well, I am convinced that a good part of HDZ is the same attitudes as we do, that a good part of HDZ wants to allow women to choose, that a good part of HDZ disagrees with the lack of that right to choose in the public health system. That's right. And we're not attacking anyone, we're just asking that no single woman in the Republic ever again take away her legal right to choose and decide about her own body, her own self-determination, her own person. So this Proposal for a Law on the Medical Procedure of Pregnant Pregnancy comes before parliamentary representatives for one single reason, and that reason is because the current ruling furniture has for 5 years been avoiding to pass a new law according to the 2017 Constitutional Court Decision. Despite the fact that I believe that the good part of the ruling furniture is actually fully in line with the SDP's views and with our proposal that we are trying to allow every woman in the Republic to have an accessible and secure public health care service of medical termination of pregnancy. None of us, none of us stand for abortion. None of us promote abortion, and that's what's important to say here because in the media space, thanks to the trendy and chauvinistic, chauvinistic discourse, that's exactly what we're trying to plant. None of us encourages women to throw up. None of us want to interfere with women's autonomous decisions, just the opposite. We try to make a decision for a woman to decide for herself in accordance with her wishes, conscience, and circumstances that affect her decision. Moral inquisitors who would like to make a woman a breeding body can only ask, would you want the same thing for your daughters? Would you want the same thing for your daughters? Would you be so strong and so uncompromising? Would you order your daughters to be trapped against their will to give up their own will and desires, to be terrified because society condemns them for something that is primarily her decision? And you probably wouldn't. Then why do you do it to other people's daughters? I don't challenge anyone to believe that life begins with conception. This can be a legitimate attitude based on religious or philosophical definition. I challenge no one's right to appeal to conscience. However, the law of a state based on the rule of law and the separation of religious communities from the state must reflect scientific norms. The state is required in public hospitals to provide a sufficient number of doctors to perform a medical pregnancy discontinuation. The chairman doesn't warn me, but here I am, an honest SDP woman and time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109691	More, it was an interesting debate, it was a shame interrupted Mariana Puljak [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Replica, please. [[Intruder: Here, one that agrees with the SDP.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109692	Here, dear fellow, I'm actually going to ask you two things. What do you think, here, are constantly attacking from this side that, as I said, my fellow law is not good, it's not well written, it's catastrophic. In my opinion, there are two solutions. Either they write one brilliant, super-good law or make comments and amendments, a series of, 200, 300 amendments to this existing one and advance it. That's one thing, and the other thing, I don't know how many times we have to repeat that nobody here has suggested that the right or appeal of conscience be abolished, about this appeal of conscience, is it, we often listen. So in this law here you can repeat once again, there is nowhere to end the call of conscience. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109693	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109694	Thank you very much. Well, it's your first question that I'm offered to actually turn my debate in a completely different direction. Mr. Karlić, when speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, said that he was criticising our proposal for the Law that he did not systematically establish or criticise our bill that there was no systematic education. I somehow understood that he actually advocates civic and health education in public institutions in schools. He says where you hurried, so you don't have to bring in an emergency procedure. And what are we supposed to wait another five years for? Five more years. Five years ago, the Constitutional Court ordered a decision that the law must be updated, that the law must be passed. How long to wait? Five more years. Will it then mature the time and in the ranks of the ruling to sort of agree which part of the power will exceed and who will compromise to finally allow women to choose?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109695	Next replica, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ahmetovic, do you know what's interesting about this debate? You weren't in the previous assembly of the Parliament, but I am also in this assembly of the HDZ Representatives' Club discussed it, but he did debate on all opposition bill proposals and, in general, any initiative. We had a strong and numerous debate by the ruling. In this assembly we see their escape from the debate, and that's one of their tactics that's been repeating lately. Look Karlic was arguing on behalf of the club, cellic might show up for debate, maybe he won't. But their participation in this debate comes down to this penal battle here on this side which, I guess, must be there and then something they're replicating, and that's that. So, that indecisiveness and that cowardice, choose a course. Go either one way or the other, but go somewhere. And what it really is What do I think is the worst here, right? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] How do you comment? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109697	Please allow an answer. Please allow the MPs to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109698	Dear fellow Glavasevic, a debate within the HDZ on this topic was discussed by some of his colleagues, Bauk. It was a long time ago. The debate within the HDZ and this assembly also discusses the number of HDZ deputies present here today. I kind of hope that's the number that's contrary to this bill of ours, so that he'll be right and a colleague of litre when he says what you're attacking HDZ so they're not your side in this topic. The confusion around this attitude is also the fact that there are colleagues Brkan and I just through the joke but there's this truth that we found that he doesn't actually have an unequivocal attitude about everything. For example, he believes in God, but he's a little superstitious. That's how it was a little while ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109699	Honorable Jure Bourkan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109700	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. As you mentioned earlier, a chauvinist discourse on this subject is being heard in public. Well, you certainly haven't heard from HDZ. So what Mr. Glavasevic just before so bravely drilling into his chest is it's pure chauvinist discourse di he demeans everyone else who doesn't think the same way he does. Or after a brief procedure, he would likely treat anyone who does not think like him. What Mr. Karlic earlier spoke about about your bill, that it was not good, was not done that you yourself admitted. Suddenly you changed the story, you'd put it into another reading, you'd do it a little bit, you'd do it a little bit, you'd do it a little bit. But basically very gross and unprofessionally written in the shortest, the most important perhaps topic of the amendment of this law is about moving the limit of the gestational age of the fruit from 10 to 12 weeks. As an explanation, you only put that moving is necessary, it is necessary to look at the countries in the environment. Who's to say the prices of fuel in the Mediterranean market have been collected in Slovenia, so will we. So it's a very inextricably prepared bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109701	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109702	Dear counterpart Brkan, from the chauvinist discourse in the public space, and even in this assembly we heard today, so I would say the right side of the assembly is worse than the chauvinism that manifests itself in the procedures, i.e. the non-implementation of such laws, this law, which we have and unfortunately had the opportunity to view publicly because one person is his own personal tragedy, a personal tragedy caused by the public health system decided to share with us that such chauvinism would never happen to any woman in Croatia again. Do not judge anyone for chauvinism, no one if you at the same time support chauvinism in the form of conduct far worse than verbal chauvinism, even though we strongly condemn it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109703	Dear Katica Glamuzina, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109704	My colleague Ahmetovic, we have heard different remarks about this law tonight. However, I have not been able to hear one, which we have not denied, i.e. which is actually not an observation because they were incorrect. They talked about the border for 16 years. That's what we explained that we didn't go into more restrictive because we shouldn't, because it already says so in the past law, that's how the Family Law defines it, and that's how the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so they objected that this was all for the Chavaida case, not knowing clearly that the law was already in the procedure of the past term and that it was now put in the procedure before many cases of Chavaid. So they objected that we were destroying the appeal of conscience that we had actually introduced only in this law, in this bill and where we are not calling it off, but only looking for a way to ensure that pregnant women were entitled to what they had right under the law. And they're talking about lack of education, and the bill in Article 26 is about education. So, have you been able to hear any remarks that have really been established?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109705	Well, colleagues of Glamuzina, just like the right of a 16-year-old female to decide about their body and the right to appeal to conscience, and the deadline for termination of pregnancy, and the conditions for a later termination of pregnancy, all of this has already been entered in the existing law. So what we're asking for is for the medical procedure of termination of pregnancy to be available to everyone, to have a sufficient number of doctors performing this procedure, to be able to be a medically medically discontinued pregnancy, to be free of charge, to introduce compulsory education, which is what would prevent the existing law from being played today, which is unfortunately in force today and not just in one problematic case that has been caught precisely by those on the right hand side of the assembly, but in exactly who knows how many cases we don't know about. That is why we propose a law that would avoid such manipulation as is being used today by the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109706	Next replica, the esteemed Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109707	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I believe this law is somewhere in the break you, Senator Sabine, that you did it somewhere in your time. But something else worries me. I believe that young people did not watch the news, the passwords that were terrible hatreds, that they did not look at this side of this hatred that is manifested towards their people, according to one part of the people, most of the hatred with the unsanitary, with the church, I believe that they have surfed through TikTok at least partially to remain informed of this amount of hatred that goes for unborn children. You've had four years of your president today. What do you want? You've done nothing but mess, hate. I'm surprised you let this group that was throwing itself at the asphalt up until a few years ago drag you back to a serious party that Ivica Racan left you. I can't be surprised at you or some of the people sitting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109708	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109709	Dear colleague Deur, I remind you that the Constitutional Court's decision since 2017 when the SDP was already out of power. However, during the period when the SDPs were held by no branch of medicine like today was under the call of conscience. In addition, they conservative, aggressive inhuman movement began waking up in 2013 with an anti-civilisation referendum on marriage, culminating in the coming of HDZ Karamark to power. All those who avoid passing a new law today are actually extended hands of this very conservative, conservative revolution, and it is their responsibility to change this state of affairs in the country. Not on us. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109710	Thank you, Vice President, Article 238. colleague Ahmetovic, again in his custom, always in the sympathetic insult of colleagues, is certain that only in the dictatorships that you inherited the appeal of conscience does not exist. I'm sure you won't be able to do it anymore. The appeal of conscience is something that is in a human, human, cannot be taken to the dictionary by doctors who have a conscience call. What do you want to do, kill the unborn children?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109711	Time Time. [[Intruder Deur: Here they are.]] You're getting a warning. Next violation of Rules of Procedure Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109712	Thank you very much, Vice President. An esteemed colleague hurt Article 238, because she insults us here by bringing lies and bringing and those who follow the session into error, which is our citizens. So it is true that the Constitutional Court's decision since 2017, but it does not say that anything regarding the protection of women and the procedure that is now in force should be changed, but some things concerning terminology which is different and related to a new socio-political arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109713	Time Time [[Intruder Jelkovac: So what you're saying doesn't stand.]] Time. [[Intruder Jelkovac: While you were in power you could pass the law you wanted.]] You get a warning, too. Sabina Voter's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109714	238th Demeanor of MPs. My colleague Jelkovac, as a representative, should know very well what the Constitution says, and then read the Constitutional Court's solutions well. It is not a harmonisation of terminology when the Constitutional Court orders you to prescribe education more clearly, the cost of termination of pregnancy. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109715	Please don't communicate. Comrade Voter, so don't communicate with her.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109716	So she comes into my word, and you protect me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109717	Don't communicate. Please tell me what you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109718	You're not protecting me. Give me back the seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109719	Please tell me what you have. Here's what you have to say as an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109720	Well, I was gonna say, so... No, I don't. [[You're replicating. You abuse the Rules of Procedure and you still object.]] She won't let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109721	You're replicating her. You have a warning. Arsen Bauk Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109722	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. ... /The noise in the hall... We can. So, although this is a formal debate on the bill proposal that we have proposed, I believe that no one in the assembly is surprised that this is actually a debate on Article 21. The Constitution or the definition of the right to live or to discuss whether an abortion will be prohibited or made available. And secondly, that this is a debate on the application of the existing law and Articles 25, 22 and 15. So that's essentially the topic that's been developed tonight's debate. The issue of termination causes deep divisions and debates in all societies, but at national global level, two mutually opposed camps have been formed. Opponents of the right to abortion called "For Life or Prolife" and its advocates called for choice or prochoice and under that name have been accepted in some international documents. According to the Constitutional Court, the arguments of these two groups are reduced to the following. Prolife advocates believe that life begins with conception, that it embryos every human being who has to enjoy all human rights including the right to live, and the mother’s body according to them is just a place where the unborn child grows and feeds and women and does not have the right to choose the life of an unborn child. They further highlight the father’s rights or the necessity of codecision and the child’s father. Stopping their pregnancy is a murder and a violent end to human life. In tonight's debate, we had the opportunity to hear the representatives of that group. Prochoice advocates believe that women's right to a safe termination of pregnancy is a fundamental human right stemming from women's right to life self-determination, dignity and health. Restrictive laws prohibiting termination of pregnancy only expose women to increased health risks and act discriminatoryly. They do not mean that pregnancy discontinuation will not take place or that their number will decrease, but only women reduce their availability to a safe termination of pregnancy. The prohibition of pregnancy therefore forces women to resort to alternative solutions and carry out illegal pregnancy interruptions, thus putting their lives and health at risk. Since women's right to reproductive self-determination is fundamentally human right, it is considered inadmissible. Of course this bill of law which is no secret, nor should anyone be surprised by the prochoice bill, but the existing law of 1978 is also prochoice of the bill. In fact, in the essential part of which there are the most reluctances, this law is no different from the existing law. It's his biggest flaw in me and his greatest virtue. The biggest flaw is that there is certainly room for certain things to be liberalized and repaired. And the greatest virtue that shows what this last case has proved is that and the existing law which has therefore become problematic in its application – it has not become problematic, but is on the trail of what the Constitutional Court has confirmed as a constitutional principle and what we advocate, which is that Croatia is, by its constitutional arrangement, by its legislative arrangement, the country in which the abortion is legal, and we want it to be even more accessible and free of charge. That's the purpose of our bill. But when I said this fundamentally, fundamental division that exists in society this law is on the trail of the 78th law, it seems to me even these key articles are also prescribed. The case we've been witnessing for the past few days has revealed several myths that we've been onto since Thursday when the case is on a higher level so to speak, he's revealed several myths until yesterday that were attempted to be placed into public space. The decision of the second-degree commission referred to in Article 22 once again showed that, even after 22 weeks under the existing law, the termination of pregnancy in Croatia is legal, legal, accessible and should be possible in Croatia, either on HZZO's burden abroad. There is no other week of pregnancy than the 10th. This is the week when the Constitutional Court, the Constitution, the legislator and all those representatives of the people whose social agreement is necessary to regulate when they have decided that women's rights are no longer fully available at that time, but are limited by certain legal conditions referred to in Article 22. What is problematic is the interpretation of Article 22 of the Law which says: “After 10 weeks of the day of conception, the commission of the first degree may approve a termination of pregnancy.” So there's a question. What's the commission's first-degree job? Is it to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 22 have been fulfilled and the basis for the finding of the established presumption of legal approval of the termination of pregnancy or whether the commission is tasked to determine whether there are conditions, and then additionally when they determine that there are conditions whether or not they will approve the abortion? Or should I try to simplify whether again the last woman or the last of the state is what we can still face in the application of Article 22 of the Law. From the interpretations that we could hear from the minister, as well as from doctors from the expert team, it turns out that they do not question that even when one of the conditions of Article 22 has been met that the Commission may continue to refuse to approve, they do not approve a pregnancy interruption. And then of course there's the question. By what criteria, when and how? That is the only question in my opinion that needs to be clarified in this existing law, so if it should be in a court of law, then in a court of law. I mean, I don't mean, I don't need to be clarified, but I'm from the debate that was in this case seeing that there are certain misunderstandings. The law doesn't know any other expressions than termination of pregnancy. Whether doctors, the profession in the description of what needs to be done for legal and legal termination of pregnancy will use some other professional statements is their matter of expertise, but it does not affect the legality of the procedure, nor will it affect the decision of the committee on whether to approve the termination of pregnancy after the 10th week. We consider the refusal to amend Article 21. In 1990, and not doing anything about the law of termination of pregnancy sign that the party currently the largest party in the ruling majority remains at the point of view that prochoice is its political orientation and that this failure, unnecessary tactics and rejuvenation to the conservative right, but now I no longer have time to explain it further. There will be opportunities in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109723	The following are individual debates. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club at the beginning of the debate today, I have said in the shortest lines what I think about this bill and now I'm going to elaborate it a little bit. I believe it is difficult in the mandate to discuss a law that is so comprehensive, which involves a world-wide, medical, social, legal aspect, as this law implies. So, when that is the case, and the confirmation is that we have not yet brought it to Croatia in the Republic of Croatia, and it has been since its adoption for 44 years, then it is the easiest thing to do is to propose it in an emergency procedure. You're probably aware of that, aren't you? But it was more important for you to open a topic about it, to try to confront non-eminents, than really write a law that could be a good basis for reaching consensus on this important subject. His name, his name of this law, the Law on the Medical Procedure of Interrupting Pregnancy implies the position of the applicant, which is basically the basis of the law of termination of pregnancy, and thus, such an approach is immediately in conflict with the Constitutional Court's decision which said that the law should be conceived so that termination of pregnancy is an exception and that educational and preventive measures should be prescribed. I've been trying all night to listen to you, I haven't seen what a preventive educational measure you've prescribed. You don't even have an explanation, and in the normative part there's no need at all. You haven't even recorded it in your explanation. The second thing that the Constitutional Court stated in its decision was the definition of a period of reflection in which pregnant women would be provided all the information on pregnancy and services at their disposal, says the Constitutional Court in this regard, or it was necessary to prescribe the possible establishment and growth of advisory centres either as independent centres or parts of existing state bodies in which a pregnant woman who is considering termination of pregnancy could receive all the necessary information on pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy interruption, and any rights that pregnant women and mothers have from health care, labour rights, the availability of mangers, which the rights should be really in practice and achieved not a word about it. The third thing that you also want to write in law is to propose it, and not to really achieve with that law the purpose of which I believe you have, the complete problem that you did not write in this law, you leave it to the Secretary in charge of the sublegal act, the regulations of not even a regulation of the Government, but in the light of the sublaw of the Minister, who will then make it all out of the reach of those to whom such legislation is subject. And you keep talking about the government here. The Constitutional Court ordered the legislator, the Constitutional Court, to order the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ordered parliament to pass such a law, not a minister. And perhaps the most important of these laws would be to transfer this proposal to the minister so that the legislator would have absolutely no effect on the order of the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109725	Sandra Bencic. The first replica of Sandra Bencic. Sandra Bencic, do you want a replica? You won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109726	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Bačić's, so you stressed the importance that the law contains both prevention measures and that these prevention measures may result in as few abortions as possible. Well, otherwise, a world-renowned key prevention measure is called contraception, and it's been functioning quite well for decades. Now, speaking of which, with contraception, education is important. Both elements are contained in this law. However, the question is how is it that you as HDZ, which is a large part of Croatia's independence for the last 30 years, how is it that you have prevented health education in primary and secondary schools, which is really this element of education and prevention? And how is it that you haven't made contraception for free especially for women who are the most common users of contraception? How's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109727	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109728	We hold that this law, which is in force above all, is in accordance with the Constitution. That's what the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court further said that the legislator is obliged to adopt a new law within 2 years to bring it into line a) with societies, new social arrangements and b) to prescribe measures. The measures that if you wanted to outrun the ruling majority should have been prescribed by you. By citing contraception as a preventive measure, you are absolutely not in the spirit of what the Constitutional Court has ordered, you are not. The Constitutional Court said that these advisory measures take effect the moment a pregnant woman decides to stop her pregnancy by the 10th week. At that moment, the Constitutional Court is talking about advisory centres new or within the framework of existing state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109729	The head of the replica. ... /Intruder Bačić: Much clearer than you./ [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109730	No, I don't. Comrade Bacic, there are two things here and both of them concern your interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision. You refer here to the Constitutional Court when it suits you, but you do not refer to the Constitutional Court when it gives you a deadline in which you actually need to change the law is number one. So, what's your obstacle that you've been in power since 2017, we've been in this same assembly, to amend that law, to throw out organizations of joint work and other things that don't live in this time more and that you suggest something? And secondly, much more important. From what you just said, your vision of abortion prevention is a consultation after a woman has already decided to stop her pregnancy. So how exactly is that prevention? It's not prevention, it's not education. It's brainwashing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109731	Comrade Glavasevic, I will repeat to you that the existing law is in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court ordered the Croatian Parliament to pass a new law. To pass a new law, a consensus should be established on this new law. We're having this consensus... You asked me a question, Mr. Glavasevic, so I answer you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109732	Please allow the representative to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109733	In order for the bill to be made, a consensus should be established on the law. We didn't establish that consensus, and since we didn't establish it, we didn't pass that law. Do you understand that? So we're not, we can't pass the law if we didn't agree between ourselves what that law would look like and...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109734	Next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109735	And I've already told you 10 times. And yesterday, and the day before yesterday. What do you wonder?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109736	Next replica respected Sabina Vosovac Please don't. [[/Intruder Bačić: Not in HDZ. Consensus in the ruling majority.]] Branko I'm gonna start giving you a heads-up. ... [[Intruder Bačić: Good.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Sabina the Voicer, please. ... Representative Bencic, give us some seriousness. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know you're tired, but I'm gonna start giving you a heads-up. It's the only way. ... And apparently. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109737	My colleague Bacic, all of what you said is absolutely not true. And what the Constitutional Court has requested the costs of the procedure prescribed in Article 28. Education of the very clearly prescribed Minister of Health, Minister of Education. The period of reflection and information is very clearly prescribed in Articles 12 and 13 of the Notice. The fact that you actually see it as one option to prevent pregnant women from interrupting pregnancy through various counsellings that you yourself have admitted, through third parties' interference, it is a classic modus operand to serve among other things and these proliferates when, with the help of administrative obstacles, prevent abortion in a way that they drag him out, delay him and introduce third parties who need this to affect pregnant women. But I'm glad you're so explicit about what your position is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109738	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109739	You see, with that attitude of yours, that law wouldn't pass the constitutionality test because you don't respect the constitutional court's decision. I didn't say this, but I read the constitutional court's ruling in paragraph 50 which should cover this new law. You simply did not fully execute your law as it was designed exclusively to stop pregnancy and to stop pregnancy in fact be part of the measures for family planning and to compensate for contraception, nothing else, as a means of contraception. This isn't a law that fits in '22. The 21st century. In a normative sense, it is better written, better written is that law which is in force and which was prepared and brought to the Assembly of the Socialist Republic 44 years ago. And that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109740	Next, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109741	Here's my esteemed colleague, so I'm calling in an article. 238, even though I'm going to be a replica, I'm going to get a warning. You are constantly repeating that in this law abortion is introduced as a measure of contraception, so spinatas because you are addressing your voters and you want to get them to do the wrong thing and send messages that are not true, so no one here is for abortion to be like contraception, so this is, this is what we're doing for 5 years, for 5 years, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109742	Time, time. You're getting a warning. Arsen Bauk replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109743	Comrade Bačić, I think it would be good to explain once again which consensus you were referring to when you mentioned the consensus. Is this really another version of the Istanbul HDZ Convention, yes, that the club doesn't share itself with you, for example? Because, let's say, while the club has split up and watch what's happened to us, on behalf of our club, we've agreed to the point of proposing representatives of 6 or 7 clubs, if that's not the way to consensus or the road to the consensus, I don't know what it is, so we have a consensus about 10 weeks off after 10 weeks with restrictions provided by law. What else do we need to post a consensus about? Well, if we knew what the consensus was about, we'd get a government statement on the bill of opinion, so we'd say maybe you're right, so I'm 4 years old. We're at least trying to get the government's opinion on our bill. And this, as far as I'm concerned, Time, now you've woken up Vice President.../Laughter/... [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109744	When you talk right now, I wake Arsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109745	Comrade Bauk, what is the position of this assembly tomorrow will show you the vote, you know, on how much and how consensus has been reached on this matter by this law of yours. When I said the law was worse and worse than the one written 44 years ago. And you've admitted it yourself, I don't know if it's Mrs. Poirot. Maric or I don't know who or who I don't know when you claim in the explanation that you extended the deadline from 10 to 12 weeks is whether, and as far as I've heard from the experts for 12 weeks the gestational period is equal to 10 weeks from conception, is I wrong, and in your explanation it says completely wrong, scientific and professionally unfounded. At least the part that's easy to read and explain you could write according to what the waist claims, if you'd put a little bit more effort into it, at least you'd have written it as the waist claims What? ... [[Intruder: Time]] [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, you've shown that you've written this dirty and bad, you understand. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109746	Next, the next replica of the respected Anka Dark-Taritash. Please don't communicate with each other. There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109747	Thank you very much, Vice President. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109748	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109749	I'd like my colleagues Bačić, my colleague Bačić, please, they're late already, it's the second day, please indulge my curiosity. What are the conditions and criteria with which the opposition can come with a proposal and that you who rule say that might be acceptable to us for at least another reading? Not long ago, the opposition in this assembly had a proposal to cut VAT to menstrual supplies. Your HDZ colleagues have had great fun on this proposal and made different remarks, you have rejected it and said, you haven't even bothered, you're saying this proposal is bad, it's bad, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it' it's, it' it's, it' it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it' it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it'. Then someone else showed you that there were conditions, so we got to 13%, so now we're going to go up to 5%, but is there a criterion, something, if the opposition suggested something that you just think about might be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109750	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109751	So, colleagues Mrak-Taritash, this proposal is certainly not such that it can be accepted, this is too bad, poorly written, unprofessionally written, and has not responded to the constitutional court's request, so we cannot support it, not even what is written wrong, and not saying how much this lacks what should be written. That's what my colleague Karlic was telling you in his section, so this, this debate, this debate today at this week, was initiated on the basis of 31 signatures and that 30 signatures, and this was created exclusively in response to this unfortunate case of Mrs. -Cavide. In this law, you didn't even write that part of the possibility of termination of pregnancy, you didn't look back at it at all, you didn't elaborate on it at all. 22 weeks later [[Intruder: Time.]] how and in what way is possible, possible... [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure Arsen Bauk.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109752	Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109753	It is a shame to miss the opportunity to get a reminder to remind you of the law you supported in 2017, Marin Škibola proposed a law that has 11 articles on savings cooperatives, and the government supported it by amending Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11, only Article 9 remained the same. So much for writing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109754	Okay, you're getting a warning. Andreja Maric is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109755	Yes, it's the political will of Arsen. Well, that's not what I'm running from.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109756	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, first of all, it's a late hour, and I think you've messed up a little bit of the pot who said what, I think I've been making clear about this law why we've proposed, etc., and I'm still going to have an individual debate. Secondly, you actually have a few options, if you leave the same You listen to me, if you leave, you do not follow the instructions of the Constitutional Court which were clear. [[Intruder: Did she say...]] Your prime minister said if he didn't think to handle it at all, he wouldn't want to interfere. Secondly, submit the amendments, support the conclusion of these three MPs that the motioner has accepted and goes to second reading. And third thing, so I think what are you waiting for to propose your law? Then when will your law be? The government didn't have the decency or to give an opinion on this of ours? When will your law Here's what? [[I'll answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109757	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109758	So, fellow Maric, if you didn't say so on the board today, I apologize, if you didn't tell the board, but that doesn't mean that I made a mistake when I said that in your explanation you state indifference when you say that by giving a gesture period you extended the time in which it is possible to make, to make a pregnancy stop in two weeks. In my opinion, how long have I been able to find out that asking experts for 12 weeks of gestational periods is equal to 10 weeks since conception. And read, then, it's true, then you haven't read your argument, so read what you wrote in the explanation. In your explanation, you said you had extended it by two weeks, you didn't, then that means you didn't read your own argument, read it, and then replicate it to me. So it's so much about how much you own The law in professional terms prepared and then you call me. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109759	Replica next, honored Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109760	Shjor Bacic, just because you don't understand the law doesn't mean he's bad. When the normative part of the law is legally binding not the one that is not normative and in our discussions today we all explained what we thought even if we wrote wrong. Furthermore, in this non-standard section, it says, although the abortion should be the last option, so we disagree with the part of the Constitutional Court where there should be as little as possible, we do not use this request, this bill as a method, the method of contraception. The education of sexually responsible behaviour is defined in Article 26 and all freedom is given to health ministers and education ministers who are currently yours. You love these sublaws, you love them like a party. What cannot be defined by law, what you do not want to define by law, is transferred to sublegal acts of the ministry. You're given all the freedom to do it. I really don't see what bothers you in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109761	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109762	I thank my colleagues, Glamuzina, it is the job of the legislator, to prescribe these measures, to prescribe the institutions that these measures will take, but it takes a little effort, you know. It takes a little more time, not just to write a law just to write it and determine here the debate and then to call on those who demand that the law be fully respected by the Constitutional Court decisions. You honor us because we do not accept that we, in fact, have not passed our law, we do not flee from it, neither do we flee from it, nor from the political responsibility that we have not brought it. I say it here publicly and it listens to me all of Croatia, so I don't run away from it, we didn't make that law, we didn't. We'll do it when the conditions are met. And we'll do that then, and then we'll bring it back. And it's over, here. What? Once the conditions are met, we'll do it the way we think. [[Please don't throw it out of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109763	William Matula, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109764	Thank you. Representative Bačić, it is too obvious that both you and MP Karlic told us tonight that you felt that you had gained very rapidly the conditions and that you would now try to write this law in panic and was told by representative Karlić in which direction it would go when he returned us to 400 years before Christ, etc. The consensus that you are talking about within your coalition today we in all of Croatia have had the opportunity to see a consensus in action. Consensus of citizens in many cities who have said they've had enough of your policy, and you will now give them a measure of the centre where you will teach desperate women, so do it and see what It will happen to you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109765	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109766	My colleague Matul, I respect every woman and every man who's been to meetings today all over Croatia, but you know this far from the entire Croatian Civil Corps. I suppose there will also be a large number on Saturday at the Prolife rally, as well, and it will be, perhaps very likely, a larger number of citizens. And it is up to us as agents not to be bewitched by only one part of the citizens and to call upon them alone, and to forget others. It is up to me and you as an advocate to pass a law that is in the interest of the Croatian people, not of individual groups of citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109767	Next, please, so don't throw it out of the bench, I'll have to tell you, I'll start making warnings for real. The next replica honours Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109768	Thank you. Just to remind you, colleague Bačić, 80% of Croatian citizens are entitled to women's freedom of choice 80% ok, but you say there was an unserious suggestion in the emergency procedure, here's counterpart Bauk, colleague Mrak Taritash and I figured it out before you said it, so we asked and suggested that the law go into regular procedure. Why did we suggest that? So to allow you to finally respect the decision of the Constitutional Court of the true God with a delay of three years. We offer to make this a second reading of the government's proposal, I see that you know the proposal, you see the problems you will certainly do well and make it a proposal of the government in the second reading. As counterpart Bauk said, you had a law that amended 14 articles, you changed them 13, so anything is possible if you really want to respect decision [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Constitutional court of counterpart Bacic. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109769	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109770	My colleague Raukar Gamulin, you're telling me that 80% of Croatian citizens are to stop pregnancy, right? ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109771	Please don't argue with them. Please don't argue with them. Have an answer if you have any, if you don't have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109772	A colleague, Mr. Vice President. So I'm wondering why it's necessary to state when the law is in force that allows it, I have no idea why you're giving me that information. when the law is in force that allows women to be elected by week 10. [[Attack Sanader: colleagues of Raukar.]] And what's the problem? Why is this information important as it is, that information would be important if the law were anti-constitutional, then you could state it as an argument. But you're making an argument to me that 80% of Croats are for something that is prescribed in the constitution and defined by law. I don't know what's more appropriate to you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109773	The next replica honours Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109774	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109775	Please don't argue, allow your colleague Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109776	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wanted a replica in another direction and something else to replicate, but now I would also point out once more. It is said that over 80% of the population of our beautiful wants a woman to have the right to abortion, so today it might be the impression that women do not have the right to abortion in Croatia in 2020. We have recorded myself saying unfortunately as much as 2,594 legally induced abortions. When we look at the last few years, we see that this number is going down, in 2007. We've had over 4,500 abortions and that's even 11 per 100 births. Now, or since 2016, we have only seven. I don't know if any colleagues and colleagues of the opposition think this is a bit of an abortion. Would you like to have more abortions? It means that regardless of all this law we have and the Constitutional Court has confirmed by a solution that the existing law in accordance with the Constitution [[Santer Invader: Time.]] All they need is educational measures. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109777	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109778	That's how my colleague Juričev Martinchev answered the same question, you gave me more information. So the law that is in force is in accordance with the constitution allowing a woman to make a pregnancy stop by week 10. It is only that the Constitutional Court has also said that, before the act of termination of pregnancy, certain procedures have been carried out which this bill does not contain and we will not support this law, because in that part it did not assume measures, the bodies all that should be done in order to implement the constitutional court's solution and I do not see anything disputed here. And we'll say I've done it a lot of times when we decide we'll propose a law as the Constitutional Court said it when conditions come and the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109779	The next replica respected Ivan Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109780	Thank you. So, you've definitely earned today, colleague Bacic, the king of all hypocrites. So, first you're saying that it's our responsibility to pass a law that is not in the interest of a particular group of citizens, and in the replica you've told us before that you don't pass the law because it's not in the interest of a particular group of HDZ citizens, so that's the first thing. Not that I'm surprised, so one of your health ministers is a hit statement that one priest is worth four doctors, and the other your health minister is actively calling for a violation of this same law that you are now referring to here. And another more important reason why you're the king of all hypocrites lies is to claim that you care about women and children. I'm interested in how you explain it then and who you eventually threatened with criminal charges on the N1 show when you said that whoever committed the termination of Mireli Chawidi's pregnancy to end up with a criminal record. Who were you threatening with your colleague Bacic? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109781	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109782	So, first of all, I'm going to tell you about the law, the law that needs to be passed in accordance with the constitutional court's decision should be such that it fully implements the solution, not what is proposed because what is proposed does not fully enforce the constitutional court's solution, there is a lot missing. And as for my statement, I was quoting Mrs. Kekin's law. With me, he was on the N1 colleagues of Bauk and I said read what the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia says if the doctor did not act contrary to the resolution of the second-degree commission or commission that would determine that the circumstances of the law did not occur and that in the 26th, fifth, seventh-week pregnancy could be approached by the termination of pregnancy. It's according to the law. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] pulls the criminal responsibility of whoever did it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109783	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected Ivan Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109784	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, demeaning and insulting the common sense of Parliamentarians. So, no second-degree committee at the time when you threatened criminal charges had given no opinion, no opinion was asked of the second-degree committee, it was a pair of committees that your minister founded, called upon and denied the right commission which gave the opinion that there was a medical indication, so you threatened with criminal charges to doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109785	It was your replica, you get a warning. Jure Bourkan Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109786	Dear Representative Bačić, we just heard from Mrs. Bačić. Juričev-Martinchev how many legal abortions are made in Croatia annually. There is another information that is important to point out, and this is that 97 legal abortions have been carried out since 2019 from 10 to 22 weeks of gestation age, meaning under these legal provisions, which are laid down in the current Act on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free birth of children, a law that is in accordance with the Constitution. Now, the hypothetical question, if you happen to adopt the Law on the Medical Procedure of Interrupting Pregnancy proposed by this team, would be that law after a month, for example. He fell in a constitutional court, wouldn't pass, wouldn't be stopped, what would happen then would help the health of women, children and all others if they were left without any law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109787	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109788	I thank my colleague, Brkan. Before I answer your question, I will complete my answer to my colleague Kekin. I told you, I'm a colleague of Kekin that if the doctor did otherwise, it would mean criminal proceedings. If there's anything you don't understand, then I really need to take care of you. As for your answer to your question, yes, I don't know what a constitutional court would do, but very likely there would be a legal vacuum because the law that is in force and in accordance with the constitution that allows a woman to become pregnant for up to 10 months would be based on this law put out of force, at the same time perhaps this law that proposed opposition, a team as you said, would not be in line with the constitution. What would the Constitutional Court decide in that legal vacuum, and in order for certain problems to arise, this law that we are making must be absolutely in accordance with the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109789	Time. Mariana Petir replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109790	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, when you said that this law does not follow the scientific facts or the truth, that it is superficial, that it is retrograde and that it will not be adopted in any case, so this whole debate is groundless because we are discussing almost no substance. What surprises me is that so-called. Human rights have not offered any solution in this law to save human life, how to support a woman who is in a dilemma how to act, how to help her family overcome difficulties, so we don't see such solutions in this law. This law offers abortion as a solution for all, pains and teeth to go to an abortion, pain and leg to leave an abortion, so this law actually denies fundamental human rights, and one of them is the right to a life that is fundamentally right and derived from it all other rights, until it recognizes neither woman, nor her rights, nor child, nor his or her rights, nor family.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109791	Time, time, time. Replication response, replica reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109792	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr. There I was just saying that one of the fundamental, one of the fundamental disadvantages of this law is what you said and it should have been prescribed in that law. I know it's not simple, I guess you should try for it, I think you should contact the profession for that. If this law or if the motionor wanted to make the right law then he would have opened up a public debate, he would have been involved, he would have included the interested public, the expertise of the public, the scientific public, and then, then it would have been included here, this is a law full of disadvantages, bad, insane, and I said that and I really think that this law was passed in '22. The 21st century is much more legal professionally than the one brought by the Socialist Republic Assembly 44 years ago, and they really tried to make the right law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109793	Time. Replica next respected Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109794	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, this debate has been going on for quite some time, but I from the promoters tonight, I heard from the legislators of this law and they protect women and their right to choose, as we return them 400 years ago. Back then, I heard that they were progressive, and we were backward, and from this proposal, the only progressive thing I saw and read in relation to what is now being applied is the right for 16-year-old girls to decide for themselves the right to terminate pregnancy. So, as far as I know today, a 16-year-old girl. I can't decide for myself that they're going to operate on the appendix, but they have to give consent to their parents, and these things should be decided on their own. Here's the only progressive thing I've read, so I'm asking you to give me your attitude on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109795	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109796	Thank you. Injury. In 238, a colleague insults MPs for telling a lie, namely, you do not know the obvious Family Law and Art. 88th where he speaks in 1st century, and that's so-called informed consent of the child to medical procedures. So, a child who turned 16. and according to the assessment of the doctor of medicine, has the information needed to form his own opinion in a particular matter and, according to his assessment, is mature enough to make a decision can give consent to medical care the procedure of the so-called so-called procedure. Informational consent [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's in accordance with the Family Law. [[You're getting a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109797	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109798	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Yekovac. So I am not preventing or contesting the right of opposition to propose a law that would assume the possibility for a young girl of 16 years to terminate pregnancy without asking her parents without consent, but to convince those who are most in HS who should then accept such a thing should explain it well. They need to convince us that it's right, they need to write it, they need to elaborate it, they need to prove it's good. No, but we don't think there's anything else to argue about for 16 years, that's how it has to be because we think it's right. What? No, no, not that you in the existing law that's in force that's not the case, because when we change the law when we want to make some other provision in the law, then you have to make an effort to explain it in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109799	Time, okay. On behalf of the promoter Dalia Oreshković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109800	You seem a little tired, so if you could take five minutes to determine... Okay, I'm just worried about you not [[We've already had a break.]] You look good to me. [[I'm going to fall asleep.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109801	Then I'll fall asleep if we have five minutes off, this better be more dynamic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109802	I mean, of course I'm risking my warning, but I don't think it's correct, I don't know what the rules of the Rules of Procedure are, to manipulate my feelings by saying about a 16-year-old girl who decides to have an abortion herself. Imagine that he does not have the right to decide, that he is afraid to tell his parents, and that he is going to apply it to a parent because he is going to do so and to whom the executioners will only then be exposed. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109803	A reminder to you, too. On behalf of the promoter Dalia Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109804	I'm sorry he left Jure Brkan, but I can't thank him for calling us a team. I'm glad he called us a team because HDZ has no greater danger than one part of the opposition becoming a team. And if you haven't noticed, there's 20 of us here if not more. How many of you are left? Three. Let that thought settle down for you, and your blood will one day follow you in the veins. And now I'm going to do a little something about the essence. Although at least here the biggest problem is that the HDZ Church is indirectly holding a hand so they are unable to establish a secular state, if only that was a problem. If you were to at least be a problem that you indirectly want to completely disable the abortion because here you want more children to be born here, you have some most intelligent policy and you are implementing some of your demographic measures, although at least this is about it. No, it's not because nowhere in this country is as hypocritical as when it comes to children. For starters, I'd like you to answer a few questions. First of all, where are we going to treat these seriously ill children? In those hospitals where we didn't do anything or invest in them for decades, perhaps in Srebrenica, in one center for translation medicine that was supposed to be the only one in Europe that deals from pre-clinical practice and research to treatment itself, and in a situation where parents can be alone with their children? We are also able to destroy this project even though it was Europe that allocated the financial resources for it. How does this country treat highly ill children in need of expensive medications? Did we forget those heavy protests for those kids who needed Spenza? How difficult it was to get to that drug. And how do we take care of those children in their homes? So is there a country as miserable as this when we talk about adoption procedures? Can it be accelerated, or are we gonna wait for all those kids to grow up and get old, and then we're gonna kick them out on the street somewhere? How do we take care of those children with reduced parental care, those children whose parents do not have the capacity to be parents, those children of whom the Center for Social Care cannot provide a minimum to visit them from time to time because they do not have field vehicles? Let us remember how this country took care of little Nicole, so much Croatia cares about children. What about disabled children? Do we allow these children to have helpers in the follow-up when they need them with what they need, and how today, when with some form of difficulty, do we integrate those children into society? Do they have jobs? The state doesn't care about anything. They don't kill colleagues of two, three HDZs, as long as you're here for the punishment of abortions, they're killed by a state that doesn't care about them. Cruelty, cruelty, theft, all the things that we have and the rest of us who have not been some unfortunate fate, but something from this country is forcing us simply not able to establish one system of rule of law and law. And in the end, all we've been discussing this whole night is whether or not we're going to have such a law, even this old one. Here let it stay when it's so important to you, let it stay, but let it be spent in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109805	Replica, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Oreskovic, you mentioned something very, very important, and this is a kind of pressure of the church on the ruling when it comes to laws like this. However, this morning I listened carefully to Mr. Pietro Parolin and at one point he said something important that I don't think he sat down to the representatives of the church in the Croats, but not to the ruling majority. And that's, the state can't get involved in the work of the church. And that's what I believe we all agree. And you know what he said after that? And it's also worth the opposite, and it's also worth the opposite. And as many of us as we are, I'll even say I'll be afraid of Mr. Parolin's address this morning, I think it was educational. I'm just afraid those who were most excited about him didn't know or wanted to hear what Mr. Parolin said this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109807	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109808	Bravo fellow coat of arms, you're absolutely right. I was pleasantly surprised today by Mr. Parolin's speech, but we weren't even afraid of his speech. We were afraid of HDZ and its tricks. We were afraid that they would take advantage of everything else absolutely and are not ashamed of them or use the Holy Table, that this speech, this address to the Croatian Parliament, will use for something quite different. Luckily, that didn't happen. People who have some kind of breadth and education and spirit know how to determine both the place and the time and the content of their speeches. I'm glad we heard your key line, too. To each one of your own. Well, after all, you remember that allegory about throwing coins. For God's sake, and a coin for him who falls. That's what we haven't done in Croatia so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109809	Next replica Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109810	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your address regarding care for disabled persons, here I must stress that today on the two committees on which we had this proposal we actually had enquiries about and about the protégé deprived business skills which essentially shows a great ignorance by ruling a family law that was very prone to them in 2015, you probably remember when they tried and passed a new law in 2017, so they pulled him out of public consultation, and so far they haven't actually done anything again. [[I remember.]] So from all that sedition, in fact, their comments and everything that was expected that such a great rebellion would produce something and produce a fruit, some concrete proposal, we're already seven years after that, we don't have a proposal. In fact, what am I trying to say? I'm saying they don't even know these legal proposals from, the laws that are on Powers and related to persons with disabilities and persons who are [[Intruder: Time.]] deprived of business skills. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109811	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109812	The relationship of the Republic of Croatia to persons with disabilities shows that we are not the social state as it says in the Constitution. As far as the Family Law is concerned, it's a parody of me, that a party that crashes into the chest and advertises with family values is running from one of these laws. And as for everything else, it just seems to me that after the change of government, we're going to have to start building a country over and we're going to have to, but we're just going to have to make this one broader consensus to change those provisions of the Constitution that we're currently seeing as a stumbling block. And why is that? Because they did not establish a good relationship between different branches of government or any real possibility of a system of control. Without the control of democracy, there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109813	The next replica honours Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109814	Dear colleagues, Oreshkovic, in your debate you have well concluded that HDZ has no hypocritical desire to propose a new law although it is sought by the Constitutional Court itself, and all because it is aware that there are conservatives in its own ranks that would be divided just as in the case of the Istanbul Convention. And not only that, we would resent a church that, just before the elections, somehow subtly whispers to Croatian citizens for whom they should vote. And we know their choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109815	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109816	In fact, you're pretty right the only thing I have here is a little problem that I can't solve with myself. I don't understand something, I don't understand how it is that, you say conservatives, I'll call them believers because that's how they present themselves, many of them carry crosses bigger than I might have on my wall. How can someone be so religious and Catholic and so prone to corruption and theft? I'm not good with each other. And the only thing that I might really resent to our home church and I'm not happy about, that she didn't fill her letter just to tell them in their faces, to tell them what's going on in their faces, because I think the church has to be with the herd, not with the shepherds, especially when it's not a shepherd, but a wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109817	The last replica, dear William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109818	Thank you. Dear fellow Oreshkovic, I also agree that I have seen that you have noticed that this nickname which was intended to be an ugly name for the opposition is that the progressive opposition from tonight they call it a team, that I think it is something very good because there is nothing better than that opposition especially progressive opposition being together and being a team. However, I am interested in something else, even though my colleague Bacic has now left here, we have had the opportunity to hear how he threatened doctors who would dare do the abortion, but today he also announced here a protest expected the day after tomorrow. Do you think they are able, will they dare give more buses to increase the protest?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109819	Well, colleague Matula, I have to admit that I love protests, let them send their buses, we'll send our own, so let's get the whole people to the streets, and we'll count and line up and see who's to really have some sort of system of order and rules or they'll always be theirs, theirs. And as for this crew, so it's 2 o'clock, we're more or less aware that neither anyone's watching this, nor who's following this, and more of us are here now than we've averaged over the past month, whatever the subject is. Now, this is the kind of assembly I want to watch, this one that's full on this side, and the other one is going to run away, and when we do, then the laws are going to be better for us, then we're going to find a way to force ourselves here and there that our amendment and adopts, and then the citizens are going to see if it makes any sense to go to elections and choose from the team that they like more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109820	Next is the individual debate of the respected Mark Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's Friday 13th, a good day since we're talking about the murder of unborn children. I'm sorry that you think you're the only one who represents the voice of women on this matter. Namely, I've got one, one I'd say the experience of one of our members, so I'd like to read it here, so that you can hear the other side that you don't advocate, but that exists unfortunately for you. It's 2014, I have another college exam until the end, 12 months of the same year I find out I'm pregnant. Since I'm 25, I'm not married, I've had an offer from a child's father several times to go on an abortion, I'm a Catholic, and I believe life starts from conception, I've decided to have a baby. As time went by, I had a constant hypermesis during pregnancy, and I had been leading it from the very beginning, leading it as a risky case for a child. The following year, from 2 to 5 months of pregnancy, I was hospitalized several times at Mercury Hospital for weight loss and frequent nausea, I was in the hospital's apartment for the care of pregnancy, the room had 6 beds, which were attended by women who worked daily during the abortion. It was incomprehensible to me at all how the hospital could frame a woman who was doing the intentional abortion of a child with a pregnant woman who kept her pregnancy. As months passed, the hospital no longer knew how to help me, and they sent me to the psychiatric arts to see if I was able to take care of the baby at birth because I wasn’t working at the time and I wasn’t married, and I was offered some flyer to adopt the baby after birth. In the 4 months of pregnancy, I began to get diagnosed by the hospital that the child would have some growth deviations, and to prepare myself for the worst. Since the doctors didn't have better explanations for my condition, they started with a diagnosis of fear that the child would have all the complications at birth, not walking, not talking. He came in 28 weeks of pregnancy, as I stayed in Vinkovci at that time with my parents, and I got an offer from the Vinkovka hospital so I could have my baby right away so I wouldn't bother anymore, but they didn't know if the baby would survive. The same second I asked to leave the hospital and hospitalize in Zagreb. By coming to Zagreb, the ultrasound showed that the child had hematoma on his brain and bleeding. At that point, I started injecting an injection for rapid lung development. He came in for 32 weeks, a rupture of the well and an emergency delivery with a C-section, I received a local anesthesia, and the child was immediately transferred to Mercury, from Mercury to Rebro, excuse me, to intensive care. There we were immediately separated, when I woke up they told me that the child was critical, stopped breathing at birth, had the first degree of bleeding on the brain and a major growth stasis and was motorly weak. After three days of getting out of the hospital, I went to Rebro, and they told me they weren't the best forecasts, and to get ready for anything. My heart knew he'd be all right, that he was my fighter from the very beginning. It's been eight months, nine months, my son's growing up, and he's slowly recovering from the metabolism department on Rebra. I knew there was a big one behind us, and the other one was just beginning, a long period of recovery. Today my son is 6 years old, enrolled in the first grade, engaged in sports, and we have no health problems. This is one story that certainly isn't easy, what's going on here. Cavida is also not an easy situation, but the attitude that Croatian sovereigns advocate is that every child, every unborn child, is a human, human being, a person worth living and whose life is worth something. Today I've heard your debates here, no one has, no one mentions the rights of a child, all talk about the rights of a mother, women, of course they have them, but with rights come and responsibility, the question is who's responsible. We're talking about contraception, and the best contraception is abstinence, so let's start with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109822	We have three replicas, the first is Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109823	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm glad you revealed something we didn't know at the beginning of your testimony reading, which is that Catholics get into sex before marriage, we knew it by now. You know, I come to you from Istria, it's popular to tell you where left-wing people go to church on Sundays, one of them is me, and I have sacraments of baptism and honor and crisis, but I'm never, ever, ever, absolutely ever, and so thinks a good part of the church community, so don't mix neither the church nor the faith in this, and it's also heard Mr. Paroline's address this morning, don't hide behind your faith, from the church, it's quite hypocritical, and don't even happen to mention and compare Mrs. Chawide's case and her situation because it's not a bit like that you've read now. She's got a dozen medical results from her profession, doctors who say she's carrying a fruit with severe malformations. who is dangerous and [[Santer Invader: Time.]] for her and for the fruit itself. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109824	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109825	Thank you. Well, I don't know what to tell you about Catholics before marriage. I don't have what it takes to say we're all human, we're all wrong, right? That's right. And I must remind you that faith and religion have a great influence, and given that they knew the history and culture of Croatia, then they would know that religion and religion are deeply entangled in the very essence of Croatianism and Croats. It's something I don't expect you to understand, but let's also go from these European values that you're advocating to something, I honestly don't know what European values are, but I know who founded the European community, they were all Catholics, people who believed in God who believed in a union of sovereign Member States, not a federal unit that would become it. the policies you advocate. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109826	Mariana Puljak next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109827	Here's a dear colleague, I'm glad you told that example. I don't know if you paid attention at the beginning where this lady or girl said at that time... says I chose to have a baby, she chose it. It's an honor for her and we're defending her right to choose. Someone's going to pick a baby, and someone's going to choose and have some other choice. So we also defend by force the right to choose each woman to choose for herself what she wants. So, an excellent example and I congratulate that girl, the woman, I don't know if I married later or what it was I didn't follow to the end, but I congratulate her on her choice. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109828	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109829	I also congratulate her I don't know what to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109830	Okay. Next replica respected Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109831	Thank you. Dear colleague. We've been here a lot of hours, we've heard a lot today, a lot of colleagues and colleagues here have talked about various experiences, but many have talked here about our colleagues' experiences. You've now introduced us to another experience and I'm glad you've read it, that you've become aware of it. But I'm worried about the fact that when you read that experience, I wonder if you've read this law, this bill, because from what you said after reading this experience, it turns out that you haven't read the bill because if you'd read the bill, then you'd see that this law is just going to the point where the woman has the right to choose and that this woman has just chosen, and that's what we're pushing for the woman to choose. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109832	Do you have an answer maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109833	Yeah, she chose right that's my comment. ... No, not right is quite right to protect life from conception why what life starts with conception and everything after that is murder. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We can put it in whatever context you want in any legal framework, all after conception is murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109834	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109835	What's the law? The law is an act adopted by the State to regulate and codify certain social relations. Some will say that the law is the minimum morale we must all respect. The law is something that parliament brings to democratic states, a parliament that has won the trust of citizens and citizens in the elections to regulate the way they will be handled in one country, the way they will be tried in one country, the way in which we will ultimately decide who is entitled to what form of health care and at what price. In this state, the Constitution and the law have made it very clear that abortion is not a murder point, there is every discussion that stops. If you think we're wrong, try to make an effort, gather support for citizens and citizens and try to change it, and I tell you in advance you won't succeed because citizens just don't agree because deep down they know that it's simply not so. The abortion isn't a murder point. The abortion is a medical procedure, and in the end, I will not run away from this right of the woman at all, and what right, right to choose. A colleague before me talked about a situation, but we are right to protect it because we are not imposing a decision on that woman, but we are giving her the right to decide in which direction she and her life will go after that decision. She decides not me, not him, she, and it's crucial and it's a taste. A fellow theologian whom I greatly appreciate said a few days ago, the Moral of the Catholic Church binds Catholics, not the state. And I question no one to live by the rules of the Catholic Church, Orthodox Church, Baptist or any other or any other religious community. It's embedded in the Constitution, the right to freedom of religion is a fundamental right that we all stand for here if we call ourselves Democrats. The one who denies this right for me is not and cannot be, but it is also a matter of choice. The right to religion is right, not obligation. The right to choose is right, not obligation. This law and this proposal contains one of the most important points for me, and that is why, even if there are 100 flaws, and there are no, I find excellent, excellent. And that's the right to choose, the right to a decision that no one else can impose on you. And that's it. Just that and nothing else. The choice. The decision not to anyone, the decision of her who will find herself tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in a situation that has to decide. And our decision today, or whenever we vote on this law, is whether we're going to advocate whether she has the right to choose or not, or whether we force her to go somewhere else and, as we have heard today, she risks her life more than just a fruit. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109836	There is another debate, the next respected Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109837	Thank you, Vice President. The hardest thing for you here is that you and your colleague, Marijana, are the only ones left here to follow this progressive opposition in presenting an idea that has lived in Croatia for 44 years. We're not representing anything new today. We are today defending the civilizational fluid that these women in Croatia have indeed been for 44 years. There's a lot of us here older than that, but there are a lot of young colleagues and colleagues here, a lot of them in the first session of this assembly, and maybe they're not used to the debates they're having today. And this debate today has actually shown all the hypocrisy of our society. She showed actually how much we had, and we had that remember last year the case, simply, how easily women in Croatia turn their backs, simply. When we need women, then we are full of women's mouths, we will stand up for them, we will defend them, we will promote them, they will have all their rights in Croatia, but when we actually need to regulate those rights by law then, behold, we find the wonders of 100 problems. One of the problems and I'm very glad that today is a colleague Bacic who is no longer open here and said about this speaker, a key problem, and that's what we've been communicating for a long time is the problem of political will. I repeat, the problem of political will. And that's the problem of political will within HDZ. The problem of political will in the government of Andrej Plenkovic. The problem of political will in the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been going on for 5 years. The problem of political will to ensure women in the Republic of Croatia what they are entitled to. To provide them with what the Constitutional Court said we couldn't go under. We can't go as legislators. And when it without political will is denied by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, then the responsible opposition in parliament as legislator does the only thing left to it, it executes the Constitutional Court's decision. And behold, when, as the only legal proposal in two parliamentary terms under the same government of Andrej Plenkovic as the only law that has not received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the only law that has not received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition with 30 signatures, or with the business possibility, raises the law in the debate because it is estimated that the last moment to discuss this topic in Croatia, the opposition has so much power, so much power that it once again extends its hand to the hypocritical government of Andrej Plenkovic and to say. If you don't have a consensus inside of you, put it together with us. What's the problem now? Let's add up. What's the problem now? If you don't have a consensus, and neither do you, then you probably don't have a consensus, then do it with us. Instead of pushing him through an emergency procedure, correct him, complete him, put everything in him that we are not. If he's no good then, we'll vote for him. Do we agree that we will vote for him if he does not go below the level of what the Constitutional Court has said and what is civilization's flow? Here, Bianca, we make them that promise. My colleagues and colleagues, where are you? Where are you? You are tired, you are asleep, can you bear this pressure that a progressive opposition puts before you today. And yes, it may be six months again, we may come back with a new law, but we've had enough of what today was a debate on the parliamentary committees. And on the council boards, the D.A. said that these laws, that this law is a step up and that it's a good one. If that's what the D.A. told us. I think that's enough for this government. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109838	Replica, Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Posavec, I think you've said one very important point. So HDZ's cowardice in this situation is not only such cowardice but it is, but it's terribly undemocratic. The whole time they've been turning the saw upside down like the opposition can't agree, the opposition has no consensus, although it's not ours to have a consensus, it's great if we have him in some situations, but it's not our role. And actually all the time they don't have a consensus. So they would fall apart probably if someone dared to make a political decision, and making political decisions is a sign indeed stable, as the strong authorities also told us. So, even though they did it for Istanbul, in this case, although we have seen how harmful it is, it has direct consequences for women's health in this country. So, they don't have the strength, they don't have the courage to write this law even though they could write it without a problem, for Forten's, lex Agrokor were written in an hour and they would pass that law With us. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109840	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll agree with you, we've actually discovered it all today, not just today, but yesterday. Yesterday all day and the last few days. But if we had written the law, if we had written it in gold letters, if we had written it in a beautiful writing and decorated it, I don't know what it wouldn't be worth, it wouldn't be worth it. The other thing is, did you hear today from the president of the HDZ Club that he said he wasn't the title of this law very good, the font is guilty, the order is guilty, maybe, I think we really brought this down to one level of parody. And you know why? Because the Prime Minister comes here and tells us, I can do whatever I want.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109841	Individual debate of Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109842	Thank you, Vice President. For those who can still follow, I wanted to say that we are slowly learning in Croatia. That's terrible. We don't even know as a jokebachter to rewrite from the better, and as we strive to be better, we tend to be in a group of countries that lead this old continent of ours and this world of ours. It bothers us when we are mistakenly or not placed in a group of third-world countries, we like to stress that we are still the Western Balkans, part of Central Europe with a tendency towards the Western but never part of the eastern one considered less developed. Our people are running towards the countries of Western Europe instead of our country being fully placed in a country with a higher degree of civilizational development of its state order, legal norms, the way we treat citizens and citizens, especially those who are disproved because if our country behaves in this way then not so many people from our country would have to run towards those countries as Croatia wants it to be, and avoids being. I'll repeat what I said on behalf of my club, today at the debate it's not a question of whether abortion should be legal at all. That's not the measure of this debate at all. He's been legal ever since this country exists, since the first day of our independence and the Constitutional Court has said it can't be changed. And everyone can think what they want, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but personal opinions are no one's relevant factor. The relevant factor is what the Constitutional Court said if we're going to be a constitutional country if we respect it. This solution may be unsatisfactory, but we owe it to him, of course, unless you are the longest Croatian prime minister. What is among other things the subject of this bill is the availability of health services to which the law gives us the right. Not a single doctor is denied this redistributive right to appeal to his conscience. I find him ridiculous, I find him irresponsible to my own profession, but I don't challenge him to any doctor. What this bill is trying to achieve is, however, to appeal to a conscience that we do not dispute, institutions must organise by still offering their citizens regulated health services. And they are health services because today someone has also challenged the very fact that they have a price. What you sell for the price is either a product or a service. When it becomes free, we may have a different terminology. At the beginning of that civilised part of the world does not question the right of a woman to decide on her body. Various international conventions have defined which rights the i.e. He has no fetus, and he has a child. Human rights are defined, the European Court of Justice has made decisions that are also referred to these issues. Currently, the right EU has adopted a resolution on sexual and non-productive rights, which also supports women's right to decide for themselves, and you are aware that these European resolutions eventually come to legally binding acts, so this is certainly waiting for us. And here today the right hand is earnestly trying to return, as a society, not to the Eastern Balkans, because these countries are also more normal than we are. Our right hand would accommodate us alongside the following countries, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and the like. These are countries where abortion is completely forbidden. Pass them more Vatican and Malta and that's it. It's 6.6 countries where abortion is completely prohibited. And they would like us to join them, to settle in that group of countries. Of course not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109843	Next is the debate of the individual respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109844	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. What I would like to say first in an individual debate, or colleagues who have left on this side or on this side, here is a colleague here and the vice president, not all of them are believers, and neither are all atheists on this side, so everyone has the right to choose, in the end of the line, that's a private matter, and in the end of the line is not a measure for this law. Even if we are 95% of the believers in the Republic of Croatia who do not want the right to choose, everyone has the right, for those 5% who want the right to choose, there should be this law if we talk that way. However, it is not at all disputed that this law is something that allows for legal termination of pregnancy and does not need to be discussed at all. It also doesn't matter what I think as a doctor or any of my other fellow doctors or colleagues who are a biologist or advocate when life begins with conception or not, we're not discussing it now. It's also irrelevant what one of us would do if at some given moment with what weeks it's done, etc. And here are the messages that came to me during the debate, a few messages of similar content, where they say, I can show you. I'm a believer, she writes to me one colleague, but it's important that every woman decides on the right and has the right to choose and decide on her body. In addition, no one has the right to judge a woman who, for one reason or another, has decided to terminate her pregnancy. As a doctor, I can say that I know all sorts of examples of who and the faithful women, who are both atheists and who were and for this or that reason have decided to stop their pregnancy with as many or as many weeks as possible, because they were type syndromes, colleagues will know, edwards, pataus or anything else, but it was their decision and no one can tell that woman you have to give birth or we'll judge you like this or something. I found here how often I take out these articles interesting, so I found an opinion here by one theologian, Mr. Milas, who says that this subject, I quote, has the right to speak to women who have faced the mentioned dilemma, even says that even with a different approach, we are not going to prevent an abortion, but we might be able to create a social climate in which we will ease the suffering and stress that pregnant women face, and not rub salt on their wounds or on their behalf to decide about something that only concerns them, and there are a few more important sentences, but here is the the theologian, so it has such an opinion, and in any case we should respect everyone's decision. Furthermore, if we are talking about this law itself that we are actually discussing this old variant called the Health Measures Act for the right to free birth of children, we have already said 44 years, even if there is no constitutional court decision at all which we should change, so it is not clear to me that at least here on this side colleagues do not mind colleagues of dinars, joint working organisations, law enforcement, so these are the terms inside. On the other hand, you have, that's why I brought this, you have the World Health Organization's instructions, so this isn't any of our inventions that we're making up some laws now, so you have a book about the World Health Organization, so... no, meaning guidelines on the management or termination of pregnancy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, we have this new bill of law that was made exactly following the instructions of the Constitutional Court and even in some way an order before 5 g. that the Assembly must pass a more advanced law. This old man exists as he is, we can ask how much, as we have seen from this recent situation, how much on the ground he respects, and on the other hand what we have actually brought, what the Constitutional Court said, prevention, education, resolving the issue of availability, payment, etc., the call of conscience, and we have referred to it all, but as some conclusion in the whole HDZ story, he has the opportunity to make his new law, and he has not done it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109845	Time. The replica of Romana Nikolic. Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109846	Thanks to the vice president of the assembly. Dear colleagues, here you are, you're a doctor and I would actually ask you a professional question regarding this bill of law regarding a provision, a provision, and that's a medical abortion. It is a pregnancy interruption that can be carried out by the end of 7 weeks from the day of conception, it must be available in all hospitals in Croatia. Do you know how many hospitals he is in and what hospitals he is currently in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109847	Thank you very much. So according to 20, now here's the night, so maybe I'll play the number, 27-28 as many hospitals that are even allowed women to exercise their right to this medical procedure, I think 8 or 9 where a medical abortion is possible. I know that with me in my hospital is, I know the price because I've been asking about this debate, so for both procedure and surgery and medicine is 2,500 kuna, you have hospitals that are higher, di less, that is, we've also discussed why something costs this much somewhere, and somewhere it costs as much, why it's not even if we're going to talk about prices, or why not every woman is allowed to make a decision first, and then the second thing to make it all more accessible to her, so I think it's 8 or 9 me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109848	Next is the individual debate of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next is the debate of the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109849	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, nice greetings to Mrs. Petir, Mr. Sanader and the crew. Let's wonder why we're still here at half past three in the morning. That would be a simple answer, but the essential answer is because our government, our prime minister and resolute minister don't do their job because if they were doing their job, we wouldn't have to do our job until late morning here all the time to discuss and discuss about the same or very similar. So, our prime minister has no problem publicly saying that the Constitutional Court rulings do not oblige him to do anything, that he will not respect the constitutional court, and also Mr Bacic has made it clear that the law will not happen until there is a consensus within the HDZ or within the ruling majority until conditions are met, and these conditions will not, in all likelihood, come so quickly and will not be so easy to obtain. He shouldn't have really attacked the law so hypocritically, he could have simply said that because the answer to my question is what are the criteria when the opposition proposes some law that it is acceptable for the rulings, what are the criteria for the ruling to even think about that law? Of course we didn't get the answer, there's no criteria, there's no law that we can propose, and by ruling at any point they say it's acceptable and they're one of the tests of democracy. Every time I talked about this subject, so every society has ups and downs and there are some Rubicon rivers that you don't cross. For me, this is a civilization issue. For what reason? For the reason that it is about the fundamental human and civil rights of a woman, it is about the right of a woman to decide for herself her own body, her own health. Without legal and wide-reaching abortion rights in the state, there are no women's rights, and if there are no women's rights, there are no human rights. It is clear to me that these topics cause emotions and reactions from all sides, and it is clear to me that many are not easy to discuss, but colleagues and colleagues, so no struggle for freedom and equality was easy. But let's be clear to the end, and let's not blow it, no one forces anyone to do anything. Legal abortion doesn't force anyone to ever perform it in their life, all those who consider it unacceptable for any reason are free to act that way, though. But the state and its laws are some other area, and they must allow each of us to decide for themselves or for itself its fate and for their own body. Well, colleagues and colleagues, so we're fighting for minimum minimums, so we're telling the minimum minimums and what we can from this pay phone and me and all of you sitting around, we're not gonna stop, we're not gonna forget about this story that is. So, this new law, we have a good law which is also I must say which when it was passed was very revolutionary, but colleagues and colleagues are obsolete. Look at the wonders of the law, those unfortunate dinars, and all those notions of HDZ don't bother you at all. Why doesn't it bother them? Well, because they don't want to open a debate in their ranks. You know the biggest traitors are always in their own ranks, they're the reason they don't want to. Well, when it was the Istanbul Convention that we were sitting there, we gave our hand for the Istanbul Convention because it was one of the times that the HDZ Club could vote differently. Now, we're going to do what our colleague Posavec said. We're going to give them our hands, but let's take a step forward. When it comes to form and content, our country has more on paper than it has in reality. We have and this law let's be honest to the end it's not really implemented, and what has brought us the long-standing rule of HDZ? She's brought us a powerful influence of the conservative and the worldview, and there's no help, and that's where we're going. And that's why it's our job, and that's why I'm talking about that Rubicon word, our job is really to make sure that at least this law goes to another reading. So let him go to another reading and do it, rewrite it, just leave those articles that one unfortunate article in. Mr. Skeetle's case, but let's take it one step further. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109850	Time. Replica Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109851	Thank you. We had a colleague Mrak Taritash at the beginning of this 11th session as usual in the morning, if memory does not deceive me, then you have asked the Prime Minister a question long before this case, and doctors who have an appeal to conscience or those who do not have it or the essence of your question were concerned with the availability of health services and the possibility of obtaining abortion. Was there a resolution minister or an example of your question answered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109852	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109853	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. Right, on the last current morning, I asked the prime minister and I talked about how many hospitals in which all gynecologists are in the call of conscience and women do not have the possibility of basic health care in accordance with the 44-year-old law. He was first surprised that there was even an appeal to conscience, then he laughed, then he talked about democracy, then he turned to Minister Beros to collect data, you know. Well, when I'm on my way, then I'm very stubborn and I won't give up on this like we're not giving up right now, so the debate should be until when it's supposed to be. Don't be lazy, I asked myself a question, and Minister Beros is exactly what it is, because that information that we all talk about 60% of doctors in a conscience appeal, I'm afraid we don't have the right information according to what's coming to me. Exactly by which establishment, how many doctors are in the call of conscience...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109854	Time. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109855	Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I'm interested in your great political experience. So I think you have, the political experience you have in any case at least significant. [[/The Dark-Taritash Invader: Let's say.]] I'd like to know how you feel, if this accident was Mrs. Chawide's, today we've seen how many people pulled it into many Croatian cities. And what do you think that might be one of the examples that in different societies around Europe were those cases after which things had to change completely, that this is this critical moment and that you might feel in how HDZ reacts today that they feel it too, that they sense it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109856	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109857	Thank you very much, dear colleague Matula. So this law we've been discussing today hasn't been there since recently. He was already on the agenda in the former assembly. The same theme calls for the conscience that we opened is not the subject calling for conscience from yesterday. It's been going on for a while now, so it's been a problem for some time now. But always in society and in some situations you have that click when you're not back. It seems to me that this case of Mrs. Chawide, which I am truly sorry for, so no one can be, enters other people's shoes and other people's emotions, but I'm having a hard time reading about it at all, and anything else has made that click. The responsibility, therefore, is the subject of responsibility to those of us sitting here, who have no return on this matter. We need to get this thing over with. We have to do things, so I don't have a conscience appeal problem at all. Let him open up a private office and let the man be as conscious as he wants but not at our expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109858	Time. On behalf of the promoter, Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109859	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going back on the conscience appeal and it's very provocative. In some ways, the most challenging part of my colleague Ostojsic is this part that is related to the objection to a conscience guaranteed by the EU's positive regulations. And then I went a little bit more researching what I based on and my first speech and I said. So we also have a European Social Charter. The European Social Charter of Article 11 also regulates some women's rights, so we have a health union, a border health union that sued the country in 2013, a particular country for a number of violations of the European Social Charter and that of the social, European social rights committee. The state has been ruled, so the state has been convicted for the reasons of the lawsuit have been growing, namely the country that adopted the Law that is related to the termination of pregnancy at 78 years, as Croatia has, but this is not about Croatia. Meanwhile, European integration went to where it was going, guaranteed an objection to conscience and therefore the phenomenon in the public sector and not only the public sector of the complaint of conscience became worrying, so in 2013. So we're already about 10 years late, but what's the verdict? It is decided that, firstly, it must be guaranteed, therefore it does not endanger women’s health in the short term of certain health care services, so it was also an end to pregnancy. However, labour rights and labour rights related to unequal conduct have been violated. So the verdict is 11.4.2016. The explanation was that we cannot have an unequal attitude with the same employer. Okay? What does that mean? This means that Croatia risks the same lawsuit. I'm not sure the Doctor's Union will submit it, even though they are the most invited to do so. Therefore, taking into account collective rights, and in Croatia click I know collective agreements in health care are signed by the Minister by the power of government if it is not otherwise defined, and that means that either the state will guarantee the same rights to all those involved in this activity. Therefore, either the objection of conscience will have everyone or no one will have it, because there must be no discrimination in the workplace because the verdict has several articles on workplace dignity, on unequal workplace behaviour, etc. and so much closer. It's a very important thing, because we'll still have the law of '78. As retrograde as it may be, and then by collective law, or we'll all be dealing with abortions with the same employer or we won't be dealing with abortions with the same employer. Otherwise, we become a country that supports discrimination and unequal treatment with the same employer. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109860	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This debate takes a long time, and for me and many of us here, it's not the first time we've had it in this assembly, it's probably not the last one, though I'd really like it to be. Don't get me wrong, I really don't complain, it's a small thing very, very, very small thing that we're going to stay here tonight to discuss this compared to what we're discussing and with women whose rights we're discussing and whose fate and stories we had the chance to hear today at the protest, so I'm not complaining. I just want to say a little bit in the spirit of that one photo of the women's rights protest in America that circles the Internet again these days, you can trust me to still protest in this shit so more in that direction. My vision of a good country when it comes to the right to terminate pregnancy is about like this, who wants it or who doesn't want it doesn't have to, who wants it, and who wants it without having to ask questions about its decision and that it can do it legally, safely at no extra cost, or at the expense of HZZO, and that it is equally accessible regardless of whether it lives in Korenica, in Bapska, in Sibenik or in Zagreb, unfortunately it is not. On the contrary, despite the very clear law of the past years, there has been a setback in the availability of this health service in Croatia, and this is how we have already had the opportunity to obtain unequivocally confirmation from Branko Bačić, who admitted this to this speaker, because HDZ cannot agree with each other about what it wants with the law. This translation means that part of the HDZ obviously does not want to respect the constitutional court's decision in fact. So the Constitutional Court's decision was very clear it did not enter, so the content of this law is the content of this law is fully in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but that it was necessary to change that language in that law in a way that was more consistent with time and not to be anakron, but there is no consensus because part of the HDZ simply does not want to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. It's deeply dysfunctional, it's deeply not democratic, just as it's not democratic but it's actually cowardly that they refuse to participate in this debate, honor exceptions. While I was listening to Secretary of State Parolin this morning I remembered a part of the Revelation that I used to translate in high school that goes about like this, I know your actions are neither cold nor hot, that you're cold or hot, but since you're soft, or hot or cold, I'm gonna throw you out of my mouth. It's a phenomenal description for this and this kind of HDZ, even in the Holy Scriptures they're amazing. Milk and cowards, hesitated and calculators who simply dared not make a decision. It is not a matter of principle that is ultimately a matter of the health and life of women of Croatian citizens, it is the face of Mirela Chawide that we have seen in the media these days, it is her life. And how today only today are colleagues and colleagues who have dared to argue beyond the occasional replicas, the violation of the Rules of Procedure that they were actually insolent and cruel in defending their own cowardice. But that's gonna end one day, and that's what we can guarantee from the team what they called us today, and that's gonna come to an end, just because they haven't made a decision on these things and some other things like these. Because of that hesitation at the end of the day they would lose, they should only make a decision. It's a matter of conscience that's been talked about a lot today, they could have brought it in this direction or they could have brought it in this direction, but taping it in place is what finally this famous myth of stability and strength will definitely bring it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109862	Next is the individual debate of the respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109863	Thank you. Here's my colleague and colleague, from the opposition who's the only one left here by HDZ, I'm not counting on the president on purpose because he has to be here wanting not to, only colleague Petir here remains by his own free will. I'm going to say a few things that I think actually sum up the whole situation that we found ourselves in. First of all, we learned from this whole case that it would sooner return to theOURs than HDZ will change this law, so if the problem is in the nomenclature from the previous period, I say it will come back the same than that they are changing the law. Why won't they change the law? For the reason that Bacic finally publicly admitted here today, which is that HDZ is on the issue of the right to choose each woman, the freedom of every woman of something that is fundamental human right that the constitutional court has said that constitutional law is actually divided and has no consensus within. What's interesting is that they didn't have a consensus on the Istanbul Convention either, we know about it, they had the same division, but Prime Minister Plenkovic managed to push through the Istanbul Convention because it was his international reputation at the time, but when it comes to women's lives in Croatia, then there's no need to work, try and force a consensus in HDZ. All of this and the whole framework within which today's debate points to only one thing, which is hypocrisy, hypocrisy and HDZ and all those who support such a policy, the hypocrisy of the Mosta, the hypocrisy of the sovereigns and all those who deny the woman's right to choose, and at the same time they are not prepared or would ever prohibit abortion. And if it never came to me, my former colleague Sanja Sarnavka told me in 2006 and she explained it to me like this and it still stands. While there is an institution of alimony and most men in HS will never be banned from abortion because of their moralization and taking a position as a life, and against elections and women's rights to choice comes exclusively because of the need to create that picture, but if they came as they say on the occasion, none of them would raise a hand for it. That's what the fact is. The situation in which we found ourselves, in which our fellow citizen Chavayda was found, is not an accident, a condition in which pregnant women are at risk of life, in which their system does not wish to perform a legal procedure is not an accident. So this condition in which the law is obstructed on a scale from humiliating calling and embarrassing the gynological clinics to the fact that the right to termination of pregnancy is a result of 30g. The direct action of HDZ and its political staffing in hospitals and the result of the hypocrisy in which they do so under the grains, and will never be ready to pass a law that would prevent abortion, but has allowed escalation to call on the conscience, however, and that escalation calls for conscience is not random, is also the result of the systematic moral political and material pressure on our doctors who bow to one of the world's horizons, one understanding that degrades women and deny them dignity and their fundamental rights, is the result of building up a culture of opportunism, opportunism as a necessary condition for the behaviour of any of the management functions in our health institutions governed by the state, and in fact HDZ equating themselves with that state. So, I'll be grateful for the rest of my life to our fellow citizen Chawidi for exposing your hypocrisy to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109864	Next individual debate, respected representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, MPs and MPs. Human dignity is absolutely unconditional and irreparable, there is no ideology, there is no philosophy, there is no theology that can make one single argument that would morally justify even the slightest injury to one's human dignity. The democratic confirmation also means to confirm itself in the protection of those who are weakest or those who are without a voice. As it is important to protect the minority and that is proof of the democratic maturity of the majority, it is also important to protect every human being from conception to natural causes evidence of the democratic maturity of the majority. There is a great danger to human rights if they are only declared, if they are institutionalized or if human rights are used in ideological fights. The right to life is fundamental to human rights, it was established by the UN General Declaration on Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and Other Freedoms, numerous international documents and declarations, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proven biological truth is that human life begins with a conception that is the beginning of a completely new unique human organism of a unique genome. The beginning of human individual life in all phases is the status of a human person who has neither the power to confirm nor undo, but who has yet to recognize the legal framework. The existence of opposing views on pregnancy interruptions opens up a controversy in which one party calls for democratic gain and progressive mentality while the other side considers it to be a hoax that undermines the very foundations of man as a person, on which the entire civilization of democratic society rests. The law on the termination of the pregnancy that we are discussing today, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, unfortunately gives no opportunity to live. The law is meant to dominate the mentality of the culture of death in Croatia, and the constitution, conventions and international law do not exist. The provisions proposed by this law give the impression that its proposings want to identify pregnancy with disease, and the medicine they propose is an abortion that they demand to pay taxpayers' money. A provision entitled to life as a fundamental human right in its essence is illegal and illegal, and the adoption of such a law could have its epilogue at the European Court of Human Rights. Proposers of this bill are that hospitals and hospital managers who do not operate abortions should be fined, and young doctors should be subject to employment by giving up the right to appeal to conscience. Such an approach could make us side by side with totalitarian systems and non-democratic states because the right to appeal to conscience is fundamentally human rights established by the General Declaration of Human Rights, but also by the Croatian Constitution which cannot be restricted under the present circumstances or even in the war. Many who have contacted me rightly wonder, isn't the proposed law an invitation to discrimination? It is clear that if you are a candidate for a doctor's post in hiring a statement of conscience, it will surely lead to this, if this law is passed until this doctor's discrimination, and the employer will be able to choose one with whom he will not have so-called. The problem calls for conscience. The explanation that there are individuals who are calling for a conscience just to avoid doing some work, and later on they are doing the same at a private clinic for good financial compensation is the behavior that deserves every conviction, but certainly cannot be the basis for such a bill which creates pressure on health care professionals and which will exclude persons with a conscience from the health system. I believe that none of us would agree that someone else prescribes what we think, speak, or do. In a man, something complains if he acts against his conscience. What we wouldn't want others to do to us, we shouldn't do to others. It's a golden rule. It would be a good idea to finally start it. use. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109866	He's got a few replicas, the first one's Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109867	Thank you. My colleagues, I would ask you, you said in your speech that there is no philosophical, religious, moral justification for abortion. So if so, how do you explain that 80% and more people in Croatia think abortion should remain legal and accessible. Are you saying that more than 80% of the people in Croatia are morally, philosophically and spiritually deprived, and you will probably enlighten them by walking for life or in other ways by restricting that right to choice until everyone seems to be an opportunist like those who are in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109868	My colleague Bencic, I was under the impression that you were really listening to me very carefully, but you seem to have been taken over by fatigue. So, I said I'll quote again. Human dignity is absolutely unconditional and irreparable. There is no ideology, there is no philosophy, there is no theology that can make one single argument that would morally justify even the slightest injury to one's human dignity. But if you've noticed that this is an abortion, I'm glad you've enlightened yourself and you realize that abortion is a violation of human dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109869	Next replica, the respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109870	If you are already referring to the European Court of Justice, then what I mentioned in the speech will only be reminded, so in that judgment mentions the judgments of the European Court of Justice which were already brought against Ireland, Poland, Italy and another state, which I can't remember now, but I can get you one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109871	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109872	My colleague Fabianic, I said that if such a law were passed which I do not think will be the case, it could all end in the European Court of Human Rights because the provisions of this law that you are proposing are anti-constitutional and illegal. So, I have no information that with such a law anyone has ever gone to the European Court of Human Rights, especially not from Croatia, but if it were the case for such a law to be passed then it is certainly possible to expect a judicial epilogue because it is quite clear that the provisions proposed in this law are beyond all standards and the Constitution and the positive laws and international conventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109873	In the name of the promoter, the respected Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109874	I have a need to react to a lie that's been happening all the time and misinformation that's been going through tonight during this debate, and you've said it, too. No one in this assembly has ever said today that pregnancy is a disease and abortion is contraception. So I'm asking that you don't plant it, that you don't twist it, that you don't manipulate it. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as manipulation is concerned, we're used to it. We had a nightmare when a public debate on the Istanbul Convention took place in Croatia. It was shown today after the introduction of the Istanbul Convention that none of which you intimidated Croatian society, not you personally, but many who share your opinion and follow that one strictly set agenda, none of these intimidations were realized. And that's when it was manipulated, sub-metalled and disinfected. Thirdly, when we speak, and you and some of the others here today have called for international rights that claim that the fetus has the same right to live and that it is necessary to protect the right to the life of an unborn man. I'll do it again, and my colleague Bencic said it, and I said it, and some of the other colleagues here said it in the debate. So in a legal sense, human rights and their legal protection belong to a man or person when he was born, not to the womb. This is, of course, true when we talk about the right to live. A person's life. Furthermore, these fundamental human rights allow women to decide, in accordance with their unique biological abilities, whether or not they will start or not, whether they will give birth or not, and with whom they will, when and how many children they will have. The view that the fetus has a human right to life is not based on international law, you mentioned the Convention on Human Rights and other international documents, and when adopting international documents protecting the right to life when we talk about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child was discussed whether protection, whether protection should be extended to prenatal life and it is concluded that rights have people, even the Convention on the Rights of the Child, who in preamble has a provision on the protection of the child before birth does not guarantee a fetus the right to life but refers to the protection and support of a pregnant woman. The European Commission for Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights also refused to recognise the right to live a fetus. Analysing liberal abortion laws, they applied the formula that even if the fetus has limited rights and concluded that such laws including the law allowing abortion at week 14 for social reasons in the case of the Republic of Croatia against Norway do not violate the right to live. So international standards are clear and should not be subject to different interpretations, and I will add to manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109875	Next individual debate, respected William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109876	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the manipulations we heard today by HDZ speakers, one of the manipulations that Mrs. Taritash very well called that old saw upside down was that all afternoon, we were convinced all evening that doctors who called for a conscience call were threatened. 60% of them who have called for a conscience, be careful they are threatened. And my colleague Petir talked about the danger of actually not being women of victims who are forced to do it, it's about the decline of statistics, but there's absolutely no record of women having to go to Brezovica and jumping there and that Slovenians are constantly telling us how much these data is and what unhappy women have to do. No, those women aren't victims. So imagine, let's imagine there's a doctor here, and I'm sure you can tell us that because some colleagues have talked about it that making an abortion is not, of course, any pleasure or happiness. In those hospitals where there is no 100% gynecologist and gynecologist and nurses and all the medical staff under the pressure of HDZ who did not call for the conscience of that woman those men who work positions, imagine what kind of atmosphere they live in. But no, there's talk here that they're threatened, that they're discriminated, and that's what you're talking about is the doctor's discrimination. ... I totally understood even though it was the law at all... but you are aware colleagues that there is open discrimination in Zagreb hospitals first of all and in many other Croatian hospitals that those who do are really out of the sight as murderers and those who have to do it, and there are other things why they decided to be gynecologists. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All these most beautiful things you're talking about to help life and those people are you really believe that someone has imagined I'm going to be a killer and I'm going to study gynecology because I'm going to kill that myself. Is that possible, do you really believe that? And I know that no one can believe it, but it happens, it happens, because it's testimony in hospitals that suddenly colleagues under that mechanism that exists in us all, and it's the primordial reflex of the flock, the flock that we all were until we came to the mainland and that we all, not just humans, but all human beings are passing through that fetal phase. And that flock of fear made so many doctors that they had to all sisters and all and all living in the hospital that they had to pray that they had to appeal to their conscience because they were forced to. And those who do not do so are discriminated against and they are victims and I am convinced that they will talk more and more about it because how is it that there is no such thing in the Word, that there is no such thing in Istria that in some parts of Croatia there are no such things, and that in Zagreb only in the Holy Spirit where so much has come from the unfortunate woman. But I just want to end it, wondering how many people were in the square? There were plenty of them, there were plenty of them in many cities in Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, Sisak, Split, Sibenik, Osijek, Zadar, Korčula, Bačićeva Korčula and many of these people said very clearly, well enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109877	Next individual debate honored Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109878	Thank you. I, in fact, want to talk about one seemingly casual and less important thing about abortion, so the kiretage without anesthesia is a procedure that is feared by every woman in Croatia and it is a public secret that too often kiretage after spontaneous abortion or abortion on request is done without anesthesia almost as punishment. I got into labor, my water broke, and the fruit fell out of me into the toilet. I'm lying on a table in the hospital, a gynecologist comes in very unkind, and he asks me what I'm going to do here, one of the nurses, the nurse tells him that I had a spontaneous abortion at 13 weeks, and then he says they're taking me straight to the gym, the other sister asked him to give me anesthesia, he said no. I'm lying on the table, two sisters are holding me, one for my left hand, one for my right hand, and he's doing kiretation, the pain was terrible, the pain I was trying to squeeze my legs, and the gynecologist said to stay calm to finish the job. After the kiretation, my sisters commended me for taking it very well. Or when the gynaecologist examined me with an ultrasound she noticed the uterus thickening, she sat down, looked at me and asked me with a worried voice if you had anyone at the maternity ward, I replied that I didn't have anyone famous in that hospital department, the doctor shook her head and said I couldn't send you under the knife, they were doing it live. So Split's birthplace, women have been going from Split to Sibenik for years, there are women who don't have the money to make a painless procedure in private, so they have no choice but to go to another city. Assembly representative Mosta Ivana Ninčević Lesandric told the meeting about the experience from the Split hospital at the emergency gynaecological reception. After her spontaneous abortion, she needed to get her back together, but she didn't know what she was actually waiting for. As if the pain of losing a child was not enough, the most painful 30 minutes of her life followed, a kiretage was performed without anesthesia. After her harsh and painful statement that such conditions were not in the 15th century, many women who had passed the same situation in Croatian hospitals appeared. I quote, it happens and it happens further, you have spontaneous, you lose the fruit, you bleed, you come at 2 a.m., the doctor gives you no narcosis, even without local and then he yells at you that you've provoked yourself. It is not limited to one hospital, one city, but it is so throughout Croatia. And these are the experiences of women who, after a spontaneous abortion or in an abortion on request, were subjected to kiretages without anesthesia. There is evidence that kiretage can be obtained by week 10 with anaesthesia if there is a medical indication... , but if it's a pregnancy interruption at the request then it goes without anesthesia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why I believe that this bill also requires the introduction of anesthesia in this abortion procedure. I'll repeat, and we stand up and fight as long as it takes for a safe, accessible, legal, free, but also a painless abortion and hospitals are obliged to ensure that a gynecologist without calling on a conscience and an anesthesiologist because every woman has the right to be protected from pain and not to be punished by anesthesia for her decision, let alone for spontaneous abortion. And yes, we are, and we are angry, and we are angry and we are sad because this is also evidence that we are less valuable for this society and with less rights because I'm sure when Nino Rastejić, who has been objecting today that the law doesn't mention the possibility that men can give birth to it, and when that Nino Rasdic begins to give birth, an anesthesiologist squadron will land to provide him with a painless birth and we'll call it Lex Nino.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109879	The next individual debate was respected by Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109880	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. A few months ago, we were horrifying over cases in Poland when strict laws prohibiting abortion left us with more pregnant women and instead of learning from other people's mistakes, it seems that we are about to become like those over whom the whole of Europe is disgusted. In the last week, we have witnessed the painful situation of one of the worst things that can happen to a woman, for brave Mirel Cavid, it has become even worse. Mirela Cavida had been betrayed by the health profession of the Croatian Health System and by the part of the society that covered her with convictions. Today we are talking about a new law on abortion that was due to be voted before the age of 5, we can hope that the new law will make changes for the better, not further violate the right of a woman to make decisions about her body. It is also important to make it possible for the laws in practice to indeed and have to be implemented and to prevent the various ruses wrapped in the appeal of conscience. This case has shown once again how deeply our society is misogyny and how difficult it is to be a woman in Croatia. The inability to use health services and the inaccessibility of professional health care is something women face on a daily basis. Women are forced to pay for the use of health services even though they are already paid through various contributions. The amount of condemnation women face in almost every step is extremely worrying and devastating for society as a whole. I believe that many women of a fertilised age have asked themselves these days whether Croatia is a good place for pregnant women and mothers? It is obvious that it is a great courage to choose to become pregnant in a country where the right to decide on its body and health care is compromised. I hope that after those who went abroad with bread, you will not rule over those who are no longer driven away from Croatia by potential mothers and their partners as well as future children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109881	Next is the individual debate of the respected Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109882	Good morning, it's not day anymore, it's morning. What to say after everything's already been said. I will once again point out that Prochoice camp in Croatia is actually in a dramatic advantage compared to the Prolife, those who say they advocate the protection of life from conception. According to this survey, 81% of our citizens advocate that women have the right to choose, and only 7% say women in Croatia should not have the right to choose when it comes to pregnancy and birth and abortion. Not to mention everything that's already been discussed, I'm going to say that I'm a mother of 3 children, two of whom are now young women, one of whom is going to be 17 this year, another 26. And I may, unlike some of you, I would never advise them to make an abortion. So, I'm from those moms who, of course, depend on the case to the case, but if they came to me as a mother to ask me what to do, Mom what would you do in a terrible situation alone I would never advise them to make an abortion. But I will defend their right to decide for themselves. So, I'll give them my advice, but I'll say, as a mother, I will defend with my life, whatever you want, I will defend your right to decide for yourself. And that's the story our colleague of litre used to tell here, so I'm not aware of what he said. So he told a story about a girl who initially says I chose to have a baby. Bravo, I absolutely support her choice, but she would also support her choice and her two girls, her two young wives to say she would choose something else. And I'd say it makes me more prolife and more for life than anyone who thinks that the fetus is a child in the womb of a mother and that it's a fetus and that they fight for life when life is gone. So, I'm for the life of a woman, and we're all here, I'm refusing that debate of the prolife and prochoice, I think those who, who call us prochoice, are more prolife than those who are called prolife. We are for the life of both the child and the mother and the right of the mother to be mentally healthy after such an event so mentally healthy that she can start and have a healthy baby again and enjoy her children. So a woman is not a walking incubator for the birth of children, so a woman is not someone's property that can be managed and that someone else will order what she will do. So, each of us has the right to choose, and as I said, mother alone, two beautiful women, two beautiful girls, girls, young women, and no matter what advice I give them, I will always defend their right to choose for themselves what they want. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109883	Next individual debate, Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109884	My colleagues and colleagues, there's one thing that in this debate somehow I don't think is so attached to the law itself, but I find it interesting if anything else. It's not because it's three, four, four, almost four in the morning, it's not because of sleeplessness, and it's not because of tiredness, but I think it's fair to admit something. In this topic, today and in the debate, the sovereigns were somehow self-consistencies. It seems to me that at the beginning of the meeting of this assembly, they have also made a legislative proposal that is on the verge of their beliefs. And it's right for me, I don't have to agree with them, I'll never agree with them, but they stuck to what they claim to be. I'm a bit of an unusual MOST that I guess you can't define yourself, just a little bit, but I really want something that, you know, bothers me about who to classify. So, they're for the law this new one, they're for the old one, they're for the sovereigns, and they'd fence a little bit, but they're placed in the media thesis that they don't want to live in a society where the desire to come into the world is dependent on someone's genetic base. I even heard on a TV show somewhere saying it was a genome-based discrimination. How confused are our citizens when they hear something like that? But all these citizens of ours when they listen to these discussions can't be as confused as I am. I don't understand the HDZ position. That's what's bothering me. They are not sovereigns, they will never openly refer to the parliamentary procedure of any law that has the existing right to abortion in any way narrows down. So then I'm not clear either, that if anything else remains the last of them, telling the story of the sanctity of conception, the sanctity of life, and all those other topics that sound similar to that of a sovereign. But then where are these suggestions, where's the implementation, then where's the consistency in the parliamentary procedures? It's not there. And then we come up with this fundamental hypocrisy, that it's not the law or the new one or the old one, the problem is that HDZ will do absolutely anything to keep it from being implemented. This rhetoric of the sanctity of life will not be written in any official document. It will not be spoken anywhere or even in interviews and public procurements for the appointment of a new gynecologist, but it is known what is expected of them. And isn't it a little unusual, I'll mention it because my father comes from that environment and I have a lot of family there, and I know how much that environment claims, that abortion is easier available in one Gospić than in Zagreb. And why is that? In Zagreb there are the largest and strongest hospitals, the largest number of gynecologists and all of them expect to be in some higher positions someday, and just as in Zagreb, those who will decide their careers will decide one day. And so a little bit through this one rhetoric that has not been officially created by one climate of subjection towards the church, according to the authorities, according to all those who paint society in other colors than those that should be both red and blue and white, so it says in the Constitution, but there is no such thing. I hope that if anything else this situation in which the opposition is still alive, awake, there is a need to say something to be a lesson and a message to those who are not presently in the assembly. And however the vote ends on this bill, I believe that no one will ever again dare step on women's rights as it has been trampled on so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109885	Next is the individual debate of the respected Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109886	What trouble has your colleagues and colleagues made you stay here in 3 and 26 and 13 seconds, we can discuss, we don't know which, but we know whose. And that may be the reason why this topic should have been shown to challenge us despite the desire to show that some things are not to be played with. The birth of this new law on abortion will be difficult, but the new law on abortion will not be an abortion of human rights and freedom. And there is no serious political force in Croatia that would want or could change the wheel back, regardless of what there are individuals who, by not implementing the existing law in individual and individual cases, manage to do so but only to the level until it becomes a public matter, until it comes into the media and then the system is difficult, but still we do and we get the decision of the second-degree body that something that they've been telling us is not legal, legal. We know it's legal but it's not bad to remember sometimes. Besides, I mentioned it today, but I have to say maybe one day my daughter will ask me and where you were on the night of the 12th of May 13, 2022, and I'll say where you were supposed to be, saying what you should and being with those like me who thought you should be there. If in America after 51 years the wheel of history can go back because some were a little lazy to go to the elections in 2016 and let that president appoint the Supreme Court judges, it's only proof that vigilance should never be given up, nor in the early morning Friday at 3:00 p.m. is now 28. My colleagues and colleagues, this is not the first time I've been to the Croatian Assembly this time of day, but I hope it's the last time. I hope it is the last, that there will be no such topics, and if there will be no authority to put them in the night, there will be a theme that will be in the day. Depending on that, the last time it seemed to me about changing the Rules of Procedure, now, then, we fought for ourselves for MPs so we could talk, and now we're defending the right, the right of women to choose, women to choose. In that sense, I am not calling for anything, I have proposed, together with two colleagues, counterpart Anko Mrak Taritash and Urša Raukar Gamulin, who are also present here to try to force HDZ to distrust their government, so they will vote on a law that is given to the government to do something, and they will have to vote against to refuse our conclusion. That'll vote against the government doing anything about it. Now, we haven't given that government any confidence, but we have some basic belief that it wouldn't spoil what we have now, even though it has potential and for that, many things have worked out, so this, too, but all the absurdity of this situation will actually be seen tomorrow at the vote, and well said counterpart Bačić, their task will be to show that there is a consensus, at least that it is necessary for the government to propose a new law if these logics are difficult, colleagues. So, and the procedure sometimes gives, gives us opportunities to show the absurdity of the situation, they defend the law that was passed at the time of the Second Titus and tell us, these tell us that we are not liberal enough, and we have heard best today and that men can bear and what you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109887	Replica Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109888	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, I must say, this proposal to adopt this conclusion is truly one brilliant move. As an opposition, we will try to lead the ruling out into the open. I just hope that regardless of what the daily life will surely impose on us some new topics, maybe some new reconstructions of the minister, maybe some new indictments, maybe arrests, but that this topic will not fall out of the public's focus and that we will look for ways to keep her awake because it wasn't just one Mirela that was found in difficult problems, I believe that there are a lot of Miralas on the daily basis, and our tasks as an opposition are not to sit there until 4 a.m., nor to endure amendments that will be rejected, our task is to do pressures that will make these various Mirellas a life easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109889	We build a theme, the theme builds us, that's about it. So we have to be awake, of course, and not as figuratively, no, not as literal as this, but somewhat figuratively and figuratively, it's our job, so every political party, political power has its priorities. This topic is on a scale of our priorities quite high, no, not ours as a party, of all of us who have stayed here and when such one happens, such one, and now it's too mild to say the incident, but at 4 a.m., we don't have another word in mind, it's our job to indicate that we are pressuring so much naturally with democratic, democratic means, and this is one, one kind of pressure. I gave the idea yesterday, the day before yesterday, that we would actually take the first time to use the Institute of Public Hearing and invite the Minister to clarify what happened with all aspects and the application of the law and the treatment of the patient, and I hope that most will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109890	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109891	I think it's after art. In 238, my colleague, Bauk, injured a colleague from the Bridge, this Nin Rasputic, because he misunderstood the importance of the Istanbul Convention. In fact, we all know that a biological man can't give birth, but a woman who feels like a man can have a baby, or she would have the right to an abortion, so I think it's an observation that it's a person who needs to be changed into a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109892	Individual debate Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109893	Thank you, Vice President, good evening to all who have stayed and what I must say is that I am absolutely sorry that there is no one on this side of the assembly that only shows their attitude towards this topic and their attitude towards the absolute collapse of the system that happened a few weeks ago, but also their attitude towards all those people who have protested today throughout Croatia for women's rights and women's rights to choose. What is particularly sad is how much effort they've made today about absolutely twisting this subject and running away from what happened to Mrs. Cavida, in which the life situation of a child’s illness has been found and how much our entire health system has been led by a minister who has made absolutely dubious statements, as well as some statements that are on the verge of reporting to the Ethics Committee of the Medical Chamber, desecrated and how easily there is a problem to present such a difficult life situation. As an opposition, we came out with a bill of law first two years ago. Standing in a drawer with a desire not to allow the killing of little children but with a desire to put in clear rules that will protect mothers, which will protect children from all those possible situations that life unfortunately carries. But other than the charges, the semi-sacrifice, the twisting of the thesis, at the end of the day, the confession of Mr. Bačić that he was a fantastic black Communism law from '78. When there was no yogurt, we shouldn't have cheered for Dinamo, Hajduk or who but, but we had a great Law on abortion, we didn't hear anything else, we heard something much scarier, we heard a lot of comments from some of whom we expected that malts should not be banned from abortion and never talk about it again, we heard from fellow Petir also a lot of things that can be called scary, but we shouldn't take it seriously given how many political changes she had and with which all the politicians she was in which political formations were, we heard from Mr. Zekanovic again who showed once again how brave she was because he insulted the entire side of the assembly and then escaped out, but we didn't expect much more from him, we also heard from Most very much philosophy, but we didn't get an answer why when they were accusing all the people who said that we were vaccination against him, that we weren't against the people. They're just for people in covid to have freedom of choice, but today they didn't offer an argument here why women should suddenly not have freedom of choice, but they should give answers to what women should and should do. And most importantly, we heard the same thing at the moment when Mr. Bačić, who, as usual, turned the the thesis of the lion, tried to defend the position of the ruling majority, at the moment of the fall of concentration, fairly admitted that they did not respect what the Constitutional Court asked them to, that they were absolutely late with the law they needed, that they were very likely aware that there were problems in our health system, but in this fall of concentration said that there were obviously major problems within the HDZ itself as to be placed on the subject. And it may be best to send our bill to the Government that they change what they think should be changed and that we all hope together that it will not end up again in some new public abuse, in some new harassment some God forbid a new and next patient who could be found in that situation so long as within HDZ it is clear whether they want to follow the European face that they like to show in Brussels or want to go closer to Zekanovic and such other overstretched doctors that I don't use any harder words and harder structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109894	We have a replica. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109895	I signed up for the replica because you're the chairman of the Justice Committee. It seems to me that at some point there will be a lot of women who will sue the Republic of Croatia because this case has opened their eyes and made it clear that in some similar situations where they themselves have not received accurate and fair information about what belongs to them under the laws of this country. I think there's gonna be some safe writing about it in the annual reports that come from a shitty judgmental authority. And I think we should put this segment of female reproductive rights first in discussions on these topics. I usually say such discussions go in some other direction, but keep in mind, pay attention, so when it comes to the agenda and to the Assembly, that and thus give this topic meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109896	Thank you for this proposal, and I absolutely agree with what you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109897	Next replica of Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109898	Comrade Jaksic, as you have now imagined, to send me as an opposition to the government's proposal to show it, to fix it or something. Didn't the government get that proposal twice in the last term and in this session? So as far as I'm concerned, there's not one single thing that's obvious to me at all about what he thinks of him, and I think that today we've made it quite clear to her through this conclusion that colleagues and colleagues have arranged to take him, to supplement him, to solve him, but that we've also got the answer here tonight that this government and this ruling majority has no political will, no political power, no political consensus to consider keeping the reproductive women's rights at the level of those who were achieved in '78. years and to make them a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109899	It's still going to turn out that Communism was the best solution and that's what HDZ's gonna tell us. The joke aside, so first of all, what is evident but it is a political problem and it should not be a problem of the state, that apparently Andrej Plenkovic and a higher affair that his government and the higher government have drawn together and the higher lack of both results and energy perhaps and the military moment is a question of how much more can follow a centrist line that he followed when he returned from Brussels, and how clearly he will now have to dive into the rotten compromises and commission that he otherwise tends to do. But why did I tell you to refer to the government? Well, because history has also shown us the present that ministers are being replaced after a period of time after the opposition asks for it. Not right away, we should let it get a few months of acidification or arrest, and we had a similar situation with our proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure where we were also told it would go, but in three months when we put it back in the process. So it might happen this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109900	The next replica of Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109901	Thank you. A respected colleague in this tragic situation of our fellow citizen Mirala Chawide, she's been through a lot, we've all followed it in two weeks. But here's me, the cynicism that they haven't given up on even after it was established that we should go to a pregnancy stop was reported by Rebra that she was offered an early delivery. So here's what I'd like to ask you today is how we didn't touch it, so here's the end, if you can comment on that need to defend itself irreversibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109902	Well, honestly, given the gravity of the situation, and given how much it is to begin with, I have stuck with the minister who is Prime Minister Plenkovic's choice, I can even say that from some political point of view, I am not surprised at the position of HDZ. They decided to defend the ship to the end, patch up a few holes, so let's go as far as it goes. I am more fascinated by the part of the ruling majority who like to call themselves the centrist civil liberal as we will call them, so we have an example of HSLS where my colleague was with me today in the morning in Dnevnik, i.e. in an announcement for the morning news, so he said they were liberals, all of which support, have some grudges, so he'll give two, three amendments and that'll be it. Today he told something quite nineties in the night. Apparently he got an epiphany across the afternoon and the SDSS who was mad at me when I said in one replica to like to hear them, they were like, but at the end of the debate I didn't realize it would be for, so nothing surprises us anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109903	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109904	If this was the case with a doctor, unfortunately, I must inform you that we have found something that can be expected that your child will be born with severe physical or mental defects you have the right to request that you be granted an abortion. The mother would think about it, advise on who she thinks should be consulted, and decide whether to ask for an end to pregnancy or not. If requested by the Commission, it would assess the medical documentation and determine whether the first physician correctly assessed the findings, if it had established that the abortion would have been approved, if it had not determined that it would not have been written that it could not be expected from the documentation provided that the child would be born with severe physical or mental defects and would not have approved the abortion. We should probably explain something. Once again, the mother would have the right to decide whether to object to the second-degree commission, the commission would review the documentation and make a decision. If one of those two commissions made a decision to approve the abortion, then it would be determined where and at which hospital. If such a procedure could not be conducted in Croatia, it would be carried out abroad on the burden of HZZO, so that we would not be sitting here. The next time the Minister of Health comes out in front of a camera, only one of these two sentences should be said. First, a child can be expected to be born with severe physical or mental defects or others, he cannot be expected to be born with severe physical or mental defects. The formulation in the law can be expected is not a formulation is safe and should be indicated to the mother if there is a dilemma. She needs to be given as much information as possible so she can make a decision, she, not the state. Everything you've been reading, listening and watching the last few days, and it's been out of these frames, it's been an experience of the system over the woman, and unfortunately it seems to have been a pattern of behavior so far. That's what we discussed in the assembly today. We remain with what our presidential candidate and today's President of the Republic advocated in the campaign in which he won, a normal woman has the right to choose, preferably in Croatia, and not only in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109905	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats and Honored Katica Glamuzina Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109906	My colleague Bauk would sit here anyway tonight because this law wasn't written for one woman, it was written for all of them. I will try to count all the objections that we have heard here tonight and to clarify whether any really real remark, I will also say that I find the fascinating level of lack of understanding of the law particularly by some doctors today on the right, but that at the same time I am very pleasantly surprised by today's debate on the Health Committee by Mr. Celic and I find it really interesting why he is not present today during this debate in the assembly and whether he is actually allowed to express his views on the Health Committee here in front of other colleagues. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He didn't expose himself, and he didn't repeat what he said on the board. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] With what he said on the Health Committee, I absolutely agree and I think that with him and other people who think alike on the right could come to some consensus on this law. So what was being challenged is this famous 16-year-old no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. The current law otherwise formulated, but the exact same thing means that anyone has read it might not be embarrassed here with false remarks. We have also explained this with the provisions of the Family Law and with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and with other things, I will not repeat myself. He objected to the appeal of a conscience that swears so much, and this law has yet to be introduced by this bill only brings it into this topic, it has not existed before in this law, it is introduced in a way that is recognised by all doctors and that it is asked by the institutions that regardless of the recognition of all the doctors who want it, the institutions undertake to protect the right of women anyway. The education they honored us even though I don't understand that part of my colleague Juričev Martinchev said that only educational measures are important, only this must be passed by order of the constitutional court and we have solved everything, while the club president told her that it wasn't so that political consensus was needed and that it needed to be a little more comprehensive approach to the law, so they didn't agree with each other either. What was changed by this bill that did not refer to the real changes is that an abortion is required to be free and accessible despite the appeal of conscience to every woman who needs it, a reduction in the deadline for the decision-making committee so that other women do not hesitate to wait for a decision on their fate, the right to sterilize every adult, introduces some new categories of achievements of medical science such as medical abortion and the like. These are the only fundamental changes, these are not major changes, this is a small step needed to be acceptable and ruling, and as far as we understand Mr. Bačić's problem is the only thing that they can't agree with each other and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109907	Final debate on behalf of the applicant, the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109908	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll allow myself to begin this presentation with one big thank-you to Vice President Sanader for having lasted until these hours, if I'm not mistaken for one single break. I think it requires a great respect and as much as Mr. Sanader feels respect for you, I don't feel respect for your colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority. We don't sit here for ourselves, we're not here to promote, we're here to talk about the things that made us citizens choose and that and when we support something, but also when we don't support something. Not being in the assembly tonight by the ruling is not contempt for the opposition, it is contempt for citizens, citizens who are aware that there are certain problems in Croatia and that these problems should be solved. I know I won't say tomorrow but today, there are those who will speak there are people who have nothing to eat, and you do stupid things, but respected colleagues and colleagues, freedom is never and will never be stupid. Freedom chooses the right to achieve that freedom and consciousness that enables us to have the ability to choose is the basis of our existence as a human. And if we're not human, what are we? And when we're here today and we're talking about this subject, then we're talking about what's fundamental to being people, which is freedom of choice, and we're not just asking anyone to ask that every woman in Croatia when she's in front of a decision that Mrs. Chavayda in her letter today is calling Sofia's choice, she has the right to choose, not to have someone else impose it on her, just that and nothing more. Freedom and right to choice. And all the things we've heard from at this point in the empty assembly, these are excuses, those are the excuses that remind me the most of those situations when we're at school you know a little bit wiped out of class, so the old people caught us, and then you were thinking of something just enough to justify yourself, which is that level of apology, looking for hair in the egg, looking for a comma. That's why we said okay, you want a consensus, so if there's a bigger consensus than taking what we've done behind what we're standing behind and serving on a government tray and saying if you're not satisfied, do better, but for God's sake do it, do something to get out of the dead spot. But they won't and they won't because they don't know, no, they could, they might as well find someone to do it to them, because they don't want to, because they don't want to, because they don't care, they don't care, they don't want to, because they don't want to, because they don't want to, because some things can go under the grain. And that's why in this final presentation, I'm not going to talk about these incoherent chatters that we've had the opportunity to hear just to say something, but about one thing I will, about one thing I will. The proposal by my colleague Rasdic to extend the deadline for the medical termination of pregnancy is something that should be considered and consulted by colleagues and colleagues of pharmacological and gynological professions to see if it is feasible and if it is feasible then I would certainly support what my colleague Rasdic said would extend to week 12. But it's the only proposal we've heard today, the only one we're willing to consider and accept. My colleagues and colleagues, this is not the last debate on this subject, I am sure that we will discuss some related matters very soon, I am sure that we will discuss and discuss the need to address the constitutional court, we may also discuss the minister's responsibility, we will probably discuss the need for a change of constitution, but respected colleagues and colleagues, the struggle for women's right to vote in Croatia is not over, it has just begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109909	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109910	Final proposal for a law on the medical procedure of termination of pregnancy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. Representatives Arsen Bauk, Anka Mrak-Taritash and Urša Raukar-Gamulin proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: 1. On the proposal for a law on the medical procedure of termination of pregnancy with the final proposal for a law of P.Z. No. The 35th debate was held in the first reading. 1. Proposal for a Law on Medical Procedure for Interrupting Pregnancy is hereby adopted. 1. In agreement with the Proposer, it is determined that the final draft law is drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. I am putting the table to the vote. We just want to vote this out, so after that break, or do you want to take a break? A fellow coat of arms? Okay. Then before the vote, we have two demands. [[Intruder: Before.]] A colleague of Peović and a colleague of the Grbin. Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109911	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front to warn about the case of Mirela Cavide, who brought into focus what women associations have been warning in Croatia for decades, and this is the restriction of women's rights and women's reproductive rights starting with the 1990s on this. In 1990, the first threat was the right to throw abortions out of the Constitution. In 2008, by limiting a series of economic and social rights, and then in the crown by transferring obligations and those social services that the state has on the back of women, care for older, powerless and children. Women's reproductive rights are absolutely at risk in Croatia and rigidly restricted by constitutional clericization of the gynaecological profession. We can't talk about the right to abortion if we have 60% of gynecologists who have a conscience call. If in Požega all gynecologists have a conscience call, in Virovitica 4 out of 5, in Split 32 out of 34, a phenomenal thing is happening. On the one hand, we have an absolutely homogenized ultra-conservative establishment and on the other hand a social majority or people who over 80% think that a woman has the right to dispose of her body and has the right to freedom of choice. To bring things back to normal, we call for a return to abortion in the Constitution. My fellow Members and colleagues in opposition, but also those who have a conscience in this parliamentary majority, I urge you to join the request for the return of the Constitution which has a component of the abortion that remains in both the Slovenian and Serbian constitution that we have the right to abortion in the Constitution would be difficult to interpret such rigidly. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109912	Thank you. The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109913	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Right to the choice, that's it. Right to choice, right to decision, freedom to choose. That's what's in this bill. That and nothing else. No one is forced to do anything, but the woman who decides to make a choice is allowed. Five years ago, the Constitutional Court is to all of us no matter what political options we come from. It's up to us to do it in practice. We of the SDP took it seriously. We have proposed a law that addresses everything that the Constitutional Court has stated in its decision. We've addressed and added things that they think are improving the system. But in what way? Through education, through prevention and then at the end of the road, through what is most important to us, freedom of choice. The right that belongs to every woman in Croatia. I listened to your debate yesterday, especially from the ruling majority that you decided and who you were involved in. You have made certain remarks and we are aware that certain remarks may be and therefore we call on you, if you are not ready today to support the adoption of this law, although I think it should be, then accept this conclusion read by the president of HS and allow the Government to prepare the law within an additional 6 months And that we may respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] But first of all, let's ensure women's right to choose. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109914	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109915	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Every society, like ours, has its ups and downs. We get to one point where we all have to ask ourselves what and how and how. This Law and the subject of this Law is one civilization issue. The right to choose a woman is a civil question. When the debate started and we put this on the agenda, two things were extremely important, and you should all think about it together. The first thing was that the prime minister directly said he would not respect the constitution. The prime minister of a country said he would not respect the constitution. What we all need to ask ourselves is what this country is like and where that country is going. In order to do the same, Minister Berosch said, call. If you have my phone number, call me, things are settled. What's been taken over by the SDP, and we're all together in so-called SDP. the progressive opposition was next. If the rulings are in no condition, they do not want to, they will not respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, we will do so for them and do so. If the ruling won't, don't want or do anything else to do, there are those who are able to do the job and will show how. This unfortunate woman's case was just a trigger and what I'm ordering from this place. We won't stop. We're not gonna let things go down the water like they've been going before. I especially call on the liberal parties that are in the ranks of the ruling ones. Liberalism isn't something you talk about and you say it's just your business or some policy when it suits you and you get away with it. Liberalism now manifests itself If it's not acceptable for you to accept the law, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please accept the conclusion. [[Intruder: Thank you colleagues Mrak-Taritash.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109916	Thank you very much. Let's go to party four. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109917	It's been a long time since someone put women's rights at risk like the so-called. a progressive left with its proposal for an abortion law. In addition to being completely unprofessional, it shows a fundamental misunderstanding of medical terminology in a situation where medical procedures are regulated. From what they mean, gestational weeks down to a medical abortion. Moreover, it does not offer any solution to the problem of late abortions, which was reportedly a reason to collect signatures to get the law on the agenda now. You acknowledged that your goal was not to help your pregnant and your child but to use her situation for her own political breakthrough. But I don't call you just because of hypocritical political profit, but I directly consider you responsible for the regression of women's rights that will result from your abuse of these issues, which is why in the future, at the very least, they will look at different situations where women's rights are really at risk. And in conclusion, your amateurism is so great that you're like so-called. the progressive left has succeeded in proposing a law that is more restrictive and discriminatory than the old law. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues from the progressive left, when you have not already withdrawn this Law, in time to conceal your own sub-capacitation in an attempt to legally regulate pregnancy, I urge you to vote against your own bill because it is not in line with your declared views. In fact, if you support such a bill, in the long run, you have not only violated women's rights in a sense in which otherwise you so loudly advocated them, but also betrayed them. Your own electoral body. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109918	Stanka has been approved and we now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109919	238, with the risk of warning, I'm just going to say that it's fascinating that the bridge that otherwise calls for the people's majority, the voice of the people and the referendum democracy here complains to one legislative proposal that it is not professional. Our political task is to propose laws, not to be expert gynecologists here. And if you had any objections, you could have made them in the form of amendments and instructed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109920	My colleague, please, please, my colleagues. Guys, what's the matter? My colleagues and colleagues. MP Peovic will receive a warning because this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and there is no need for such a loud reaction. We're now going to the 5th request for a break. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109921	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club so that once again before the vote, we can clearly state the main reasons why the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support the draft Conclusion, nor the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy itself. First of all, the name of the Law on the Medical Interruption of Pregnancy clearly reflects the position of the Proposer under which this Law is intended exclusively for the termination of pregnancy and does not presuppose the termination of pregnancy as an exception but as a rule, which is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which said and ordered the legislator to prescribe a law establishing educational and preventive measures in order to make the law of termination of pregnancy an exception. And in this sense, the Constitutional Court has written something very important, which is that the future law prescribes educational and preventive measures that will be passed by law. In this regard, this law is undermining because, unlike the commitment of the opposition, it provides for two-thirds of the pandemic with measures which are of a much lower legal importance and which would determine the conduct of our fellow citizens here on an extremely important subject which affects and the rights of the individual, which enters into the privacy of the woman, which should then be passed away from the eyes of the Croatian Parliament and leaves them at the level of the sublegal act. We therefore hold that such a law would be contrary with a decision of the Constitutional Court and we will not support it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109922	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. So the break will be granted to you, too. We now have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure regarding your exposure. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109923	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. He's been injured. The 238th Rules of Procedure of HS because Mr. Branko Bačić is simply not telling the truth. My colleague Bačić, you were at least honest last night and you clearly said why you would not support this law or suggest your own, you were open and you said it was because inside you couldn't agree and reach a consensus. Don't take it out now and don't tell the truth now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109924	You get a fellow coat of arms too, this was a replica. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109925	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS. Art. In 238, it should be an honest colleague Bačić and we will not, we will not support this law, we do not want this law, we do not want to bring unrest into our ranks is it easier for us to have a law that is 44 years old than to have a new law. And you turned the saw upside down, tell me which article says the abortion is mandatory, so you said it to Mr. Bačić, so you're not embarrassed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109926	My colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, you get a warning that this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's all yours, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109927	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. The 238th Rules of Procedure and by colleagues of the Grbins and by counterpart Mrak Taritash. So both yesterday and now I have said a clear position why we will not support this law, it is in a legal and professional sense under the law that was passed 44 years ago by the SFRJ Assembly and it is inappropriate for the state in '22. The 21st century bring such a law which is shameful and which does not answer a single important question that he has to resolve. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109928	You're getting a warning, too. My colleagues, Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109929	Art. In 238, counterpart Bacic, as usual, insults the common sense of this whole section of opposition when he does not want to repeat what he said yesterday, and he made it clear that the reason why he does not go into amendments to the law and why the constitutional court's decision is because Prime Minister Plenkovic has no consensus within his party. When he needed a consensus around Istanbul because of the international community, he got it, but when it comes to Croatian women and their fates, he gets fucked and it's the whole truth and the whole face... of this whole charade.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109930	My colleagues Bencic you get and you get a reminder this was a replica. Now, the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be explained by my colleague Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109931	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of the Dark Taritash has been injured by an article. The 238th Rules of Procedure, colleague Mrak Taritash, spoke sincerely, but he also spoke honestly last night on behalf of his proposer and colleague, Bauk, when he said that the greatest flaw and virtue of this proposal is that it is the same as that which is now in force, and you suggest this as a major change. This proposal is unprofessional and does not adequately regulate this very complex issue. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109932	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac, and you're getting a warning this was also a replica. My colleague Bacic has been re-injured by his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109933	That's right, Mr. President. A colleague of Bencic's injured the 238th article of the Rules of Procedure. I, my colleague Bencic, clearly referred to this law, said it was unprofessional, unquality and in no way corresponds to the challenge set before the legislator by the constitutional court. And the other thing is that I was saying when we are going to propose this law is very important because when we propose this law, then it will be the law that needs to be done and what is appropriate this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109934	My colleague Bačić's second warning wasn't a violation of his rules of procedure. But here we have another injury from Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109935	Thank you. 238th article demeaning parliamentary representatives and common sense. You and your compact majority, in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of you are very clearly offered to improve this law, to make it to your extent and to the extent of the constitutional court, but above all to respect the Constitutional Court's decision because the Constitutional Court He's saying it's meant to be done. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Raukar Gamulin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109936	You're getting a warning. And here's another one, I'm asking you now to make this last because this is now turning into a controversy replication has nothing to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109937	I thank the president. He's been injured. 238th and I really think that all MPs of the 10th convocation of HS are offended. Mr. Bačić, you said this law was unprofessional, so that's the main reason the HDZ won't support it and you're also claiming that the one from socialism is better. Well, first of all, it's not even the task of the opposition to pass a new law, it's the task of the parliamentary majority, the task you have since the Constitutional Court's decision. And the fact that you support the law [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] from a time of socialism, it speaks of where HDZ comes from. [[Intruder President: counterpart Oreshkovic.]] Thank you... thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109938	Thank you very much. You get a warning just like all your predecessors. Now let's move on with the explanation of the breaks, Comrade Bartulica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109939	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club on this subject, a lot has already been said. I'm going to repeat that I'm sorry that this debate was deep in the night, I think she deserved a much better time in the morning so the whole public can hear the arguments clearly. And once again I will say that as far as this bill is concerned, we are against and have not heard convincing arguments as to why they would change their minds. In fact, as controversial as this subject may be, I don't think it's as complicated as it is, so the Constitutional Court has reached a solution in which it stands, among other things, that every legislator, and so the HS has the right to determine when human life begins, is a nonsensus, medicine clearly determines, the colleagues who dispute it have not presented any other thesis that would convince me that it's different, so I think that reason and what science requires is that we all accept that conception is the beginning of every new human being, all of us, and others. As for the call of conscience, the experience of the 20th century clearly shows in Germany that it is not a good idea to force doctors to do killing, so it is a form of killing. I think everyone who argues that this is a form of violence against an unborn child lives in a parallel world, but the experience of Germany, Nazi Germany, shows that doctors are the last to do so. Therefore, we need to maintain the appeal of conscience, and I think it is a very good sign that a growing number of doctors reject it and I invite you all tomorrow to "Hod for Life". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109940	Thank you very much. In doing so, we exhausted discussions or requests for a break. As I announced in accordance with article. 293.b. We will continue to work, so I am now voting the proposed conclusion of MPs Arsen Bauk, Anka Mrak-Taritash and Urše Raukar Gamulin. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 130 MPs and MPs voted, 45 for, 5 abstentions and 80 against, so the conclusion did not get the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy, please vote. Who's in? Restraint? Against? I find that 130 MPs and MPs voted, 47 for, 5 abstentions and 78 against, so the law did not get the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109941	Since there are not many reported for the point on schedule today, I would like to inform you that if it remains that way after the debate is concluded, we will immediately move on to the presentation of the position of club representatives, so please all clubs to prepare and be present. Today's item of the agenda is - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/23 on a framework for the recovery and rehabilitation of central other Contracting Parties, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 273. The proposal is proposed by the Government pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Secretary Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109942	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. It is before us as you have heard the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2021/23 on the framework for recovery and recovery of central and other Contracting Parties. So, what I'm saying at the outset is that the regulation is directly applicable, so this is not about alone in this proposal for a law on the regulation itself, but about what is our duty to fulfil legislation in order for this regulation to be applicable. Introducing only to get a little broader context, because the proposal does not explain what makes the regulation so wide. Somehow to say that we have two basic ways of trading securities, first of all, we're talking about millions of securities, one that's going through the stock market, and the other is the one that's going on, what we've talked about here multiple times, through other channels, or OTC channels or over-the-counter, so something that directly two entities can trade. This central other contracting parties or central... is actually a financial institution that makes a settlement or a sort of one, and we can't say intermediation, exactly which does clear certain transactions, clearing you is actually the moment when after the agreement has been reached, that it is known that on the agreed parties will be able to do so and thus they guarantee the fulfillment of what the two sides agreed on, in that regulated market,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the stock market is doing, this is exactly what financial institutions like this do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are legal persons, financial institutions acting as intermediaries between the buyer and the seller of some securities. It is precisely this intervention because of what I have stated among others that makes the financial market safer and ensures risk management that could arise if one contracting party does not make the necessary payments at the time they arrive. In fact, this role of intermediaries is actually taking place so that the CCP or that central other contractual party is in a way that the buyer is the seller of each seller and seller of each buyer. So when you sell certain financial assets, or securities, you only work directly with the central other party. It actually runs what is described as a harmonised trading book. In particular, it works for centralised transaction processing and member positions and fulfils the obligations arising from these transactions, thereby taking risks to itself. And that is quite important, in fact, the key role of this whole thing and why we are here today and we are talking about this implementation of these particular risks because after 2008, it was recognised that, when such transactions take place through such central other contracting parties, that, although this is precisely the purpose of reducing the risk, since the central and other contracting parties themselves guarantee the fulfilment of these contractual obligations and of the particular guarantee fund or the initial margin, or the initial amounts of compensation that the seller or buyer must pay, it may happen that, with all these uses of reducing the risk of something happening with the financial institutions themselves doing that service. So translated, when transactions are carried out through the CCP, that means that customers, or members of that transaction, are protected because it is precisely the institution that will settle the obligations. As regards the institutions themselves which have the approval, they usually do the services of their settlements in several product categories, i.e. included also unlisted financial derivatives, commodity derivatives, shares, bonds and other products, such as the Repo Contract. In fact, the relevant Regulation requires that those central and other contracting parties themselves comply with high rating and organisational standards and business standards, so it was to regulate that market. However, in order to prevent exactly the negative consequences of the regular insolvency procedure, so we are now talking about these HUBs of a kind for transactions, a specific framework for the recovery and recovery of the central and other Contracting Parties themselves has been approached. So the objectives, I think, are absolutely clear, therefore, are to ensure that these central and other contracting parties themselves or these CCPs or to establish appropriate recovery measures from financial difficulties, maintaining a key function, a CCP that fails or is likely to fail, preserve financial stability and avoid significant adverse effects on the financial system and its ability to support the economy. In fact, at the very end of what is before you today, the regulation itself, and then this implementing part of the regulation that is before you today, is to preserve financial stability and to the minimum possible cost awareness that taxpayers would bear for the destruction of the central other Contracting Party. So what I'm explaining here many times before you is that it's going to increase market transparency, something that's done in a way that's not what you'd say, underneath work, that's traded on certain securities, which are not over the stock market, you get just reports with this through supervisory mechanisms and bodies are establishing control over that part of the market, so OTC derivatives and, of course, it reduces the risk itself. How does that work? The three key steps are the key steps, only by completing the regulation itself, is that you, the first one, means that the financial institutions that carry out these settlements must develop recovery plans based on recovery plans, the supervisory authority must draw up recovery plans. Thus, it actually determines how to handle a failure to comply with the obligation, i.e. to establish the financial health of the central other Contracting Party. The recovery plan also provides for the use of all recovery powers to absorb losses and ensure continuity of key functions of the central other Contracting Parties themselves. The second step means that the central other Contracting Parties can, on the basis of a prepared recovery plan and in accordance with certain indicators, take recovery measures, so it is actually one way that what we had in Croatia for the first time, perhaps for the first time practically in Europe, to see the application of rehabilitation measures through the Single Sanantia Fund, the Single Sanantia Committee, when it comes to Sberbanci, this is essentially the same model only by different legalitys on this central other Contracting Party. Therefore, as regards this second step, they may be to call for cash payments sent to the members of the system of alignment, to reduce the value of the collateral, to use the central and other contracting parties' own funds. Therefore, and in the second step, it is possible that this supervisory authority, the resolution body, intervenes at an early stage, may, for example, ask the central other Contracting Parties to take already certain measures from their recovery plan or to change their business strategy, legal or operational structure. So it's absolutely taking care that the risk is reduced to as minimally as possible, that it's as controlled as possible, but that's what I'm saying that proved to be the key here in this example of ours. The third step, i.e. which was carried out is that if there is a failure itself, then the measures from this recovery plan are not sufficient, then the resolution authority can also use the resolution instruments, partial termination of the contract, profit corrections, write-off of capital, call for members to... Cash payment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also sells the central and other contracting parties, establishing a transitional provision, so some of those options which when only the central other contracting authority comes into the recovery system itself. In addition, if what is provided for by the regulation itself due to the failure of the central other Contracting Party threatens the systemic crisis, Member States may invest money or the central other Contracting Party to transfer public ownership. So state-of-the-art stabilization instruments. Of course, they are in line with support under EU state support rules. Therefore, the aim of all of this is to ensure that the relevant part of the loss is borne by shareholders, i.e. to reduce to the minimum extent possible the cost of the failure of the central other contracting parties to be borne by taxpayers. So, something that we've already spoken here several times in a way that we've had in the recovery of credit institutions and liquidations, a kind of bail-in by means of our own means, a guarantee fund, means own funds and all of the elements that we've listed to solve potential, potential damages, or all of the individual risks. Now, the aim of this law is, as I said, further harmonisation, in fact it is an implementing character, and here we arrange that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, so HANFA is appointed as the competent body in the recovery of central other Contracting Parties based in the Republic of Croatia. HANFA is also appointed a resolution body, and the Ministry of Finance is appointed as a competent ministry with central other Contracting Parties based in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, each Member State was obliged to appoint these bodies, with the Ministry of Finance also appointed this with credit institutions. Further provisions and powers, i.e. the duties of those bodies themselves as regards the Ministry of Finance, to notify the European Commission of the resolution bodies. National implementation of the regulations in the part of the area of harmonisation with the bankruptcy law shall be made possible and clarified. It is more precisely defined as applying to the bankruptcy of the central and other contracting parties established in the Republic of Croatia the provisions of the law governing the bankruptcy procedure. The details of the application of certain renaissance instruments, powers and responsibilities of HANFA are also developed. Of course, the issue of state instruments for financial stabilisation, i.e. through certain financial support, is regulated. In addition, different procedural regulations shall be laid down including supervisory measures, judicial proceedings, i.e. lawsuits and, of course, infringement provisions. What I can say only for the sake of such bodies in the EU is registered 14 among which is one Croatian which has been granted approval since 20 October of last year. The company SKDD SSP... d.d. obtaining approval for the provision of services to the central and other contracting parties, and has also started operational work since 3 January. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, more or less we're one of 14, I think there are two in Germany, Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, etc. The Netherlands and two too. Our Croatia is currently the last licensed and even the smallest SAA in the EU. So, with this, we would meet our obligation under the regulation, in fact, and as soon as the rules set out are downgraded, what is the objective of this collapse of the central and other Contracting Parties by introducing effective incentives for proper risk management. So, ultimately, we continue to apply and transpose, of course, the application of all the regulations aimed at regulating, encouraging the capital market and ensuring greater security after that crisis in 2008, which is, in fact, one and the same denominator all those participating in the capital market are allowed to act more, but within the frameworks that will have greater security and less risks to state budgets. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109943	Here's a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am interested in what will happen to the Croatian team SKDD, i.e. currently on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, another agreed piece of shit to align the SKDD. Right? If I understand correctly. This is now the new SKDD, See See P smart clear. Now, I'm curious to know if it's actually going to stop all the rights and obligations of the SKDD, so it's going to move on to this new society. So, I'm curious about what's going to happen on the stock market. Or the SCDD out of this. So the clean transformation in the Croatian capital market since they said this is a new society, what about the existing one that currently regulates such other parties contracted and what kind of information is going on to clients or some kind of technology process for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109945	Thank you. So, first of all, this is made to have a financial institution that can be done more safely, that can make clearings, that is, alignments, that is, only between customers and sellers. As far as these statistical all others are concerned, it remains with its function as it has been, so if we have the meaning of Croatian companies or on the Croatian capital market there is an institution through which you can safely, with less risk, there are, however, certain fees that are paid for it, carry out your transactions that are not over the stock market. So the SKDD as such keeps records, however, this is one step higher, we have here had that debate about OTC markets, where some billions were, although there was all around government bonds, and all of 10 transactions were, the OTC transaction between certain entities that were so reported. So we believe that this will raise one level of security because that clearing that is the meaning of it, so when you sell to someone, it ensures that you will actually get contracts from that contract will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109946	Followed by replica, respected representatives of Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109947	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, my replica was going in this direction, too, so to clarify that a society was founded in Croatia that was at the FINA, so the SKDD CCP which... which will and will have received all the necessary certificates from, as you said, since October 2021 which will then take part in all these actions that are numbered here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is very important that throughout this structure, we have exactly all these protective mechanisms and that we respect this regulation that really enables us to make the financial market as stable and more resistant to the crisis as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109948	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109949	Here's a thank you. So I can just connect, that sense, this is what we've secured and... established that body that takes over what the SKDD has been doing so far, but in terms of being able to provide under this regulated framework of this kind of transaction, or the very alignment itself, hoping in fact that what I've been saying, we are one far behind the developed EU capital market or the rest of the developed world, however, we must use or we can use all the benefits and their mistakes and learn from their mistakes that they are now actually correcting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We come far, far into one point that they have had to change many times or more times based on attempts and mistakes, and that gives us one competitive advantage to jump right where they are arranged, safely traded and that we can grow much, much faster than they have in the last hundreds of years, as far as the developed capital markets are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109950	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Please just here, more comments or as information, how much such transactions are going on on our capital market, and perhaps in comparison, is it, with Western developed markets and whether there is a certain space for progress, when we talk about our capital market. And the second question, I tried to explain the bill, but it seems to me that you're in your opening statement and I said so I didn't follow you very well. In Croatia there is one society, meaning registered, and at EU level... 16, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 14, okay, so please, here's a comment or information on this first part of the question, how many transactions are actually going on with us and maybe a comparison with Western developed markets. [[Intruder: 14 in all with that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109952	So as far as... So as for the number of transactions, it varies between 200, 250 and 300 per day. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the regulated market outside the European economic zone in the number of such central other Contracting Parties, it is 54, in the EU 14 with the other central others... The parties have tens of thousands of such transactions a day so something which is a huge space for progress, surely this is also the thing on the capital market that they have the ability to trade more securely which means it is traded, as I have told certain securities, can also be the shares that are not listed on the stock market through this particular one, these financial institutions make all the adjustments, get security because this institution is also, even though it is an intermediary, it is also a buyer and sell. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She is a customer of the seller, and the seller of the buyer and she always "matches" those transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109953	Here's a thank you to the secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first was registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here is today a technical law for the single capital market within the EU. A single capital market project, or a single banking union at EU level, means that as easily as these transactions go, it becomes the protection of citizens of Europe against any kind of financial difficulties in the future, it goes on, it continues, it means it is one broader, a much wider project that has been defined through the single banking union, then through the single capital market, today it is one of the application of this law and the single monetary union, today we are passing the law, we seem to be adopting the Law on the euro, so all of this is one set of laws where Croatia will integrate into European financial flows. As the Secretary of State pointed out, Europe has learned from mistakes, errors in 2008, in banking crises, crises when financial market shocks occur, today we have witnessed the same kind of shock on the energy market, the food market, and all the announcements that there will be some growth in interest rates in the future, and financial markets have always been ahead of some kind of shock, have they? And now this law allows us that when a financial shock occurs, is it, in the capital market, that those who participated in that capital market, the one who bought or sold his securities, and something on the side of it happened, some kind of shock on the financial market that they could carry out that transaction, right? So far, is it between them when everything is good then there's no problem that these transactions will be, he's asked to buy something or this one to sell it won't be, there's no big problem that this one will actually get the money and that the real transaction will take place. But when some financial shocks happen, then everything just panics, and that's why those who participate here today, and that's what those intermediaries have to do, they're those intermediaries, they're the thread that says no matter what happens, it's got to be worth it. On the other hand, this is what they sell, and they give some security on the financial market, and today we regulate them, that if they get in trouble, this is a step further. If they are in trouble because of this financial shock, how do they act? And that's good, that's good. This is let's be honest, that this someone wrote in Croatia we do not have the capacity for Croatia to write such laws, to have someone remember, to write it. We're too tight a capital market. We have, we don't have that many big transactions. This is knowing how from Europe and those who are going to do this recovery of how you're going to do all the things you're actually going to do is know how we get, which is kind of an additional value when some bad situation happens how to deal with these bad situations. And it's good that we enrich our legal system with these laws, enrich them because we don't know what they're like every day. Certain consequences may occur. And then this law exactly, or that regulation that we apply says what, who's in charge. He's in charge of HANFA. What, as it must be done, which is the resolution body, is how all these procedures go. As much as we think it's unnecessary today, normally at a time when there's no crisis, we think about what we're going to think about it. But when certain problems happen, then they tell us that there was some law that would have managed to regulate it for us at the time, to know who was doing what in crisis situations. And that is why this central other Contracting Party that has such a name here, that is, in Croatia is known here as the SKDD who will now, as we have said, keep records, and his daughter's company, or those who founded the SKD SSP smart clear they will actually run the whole process, get approval from HANFA. They will be the ones who will participate as another party contracted and it is she who actually guarantees that these transactions take place neatly, that they take place without any fear of whether the other party will receive money or not. Here's an example of Sberbank. In a second as much as we think we've got strong, when the panic gets in, can I get my money that panic is spreading a lot, it's spreading fast. And if you didn't have instruments like the one-of-a-kind sanity mechanism that we talked about here legally, we said it was as good as that rescue fund, so it's being paid into in some better times, so when it happens, there are some institutions. This is what we in this country always need to build and upgrade the institution is it strong and democracy and it is easier to market capital and it is a better economy when you have institutions. We work on institutions, we work to get HANFA, it gets stronger, it can track the whole process, and that's what all the benefits are and where we don't have any expertise because we're just a little bit of a market. It's not that we want something or we don't want it. Simple financial flows are much above us than is happening in Croatia. However, in order to be integrated as well, we might be buying some securities, if not only in Croatia, but you said that at EU level it exists. Does 14 mean them? When you buy in some financial markets, you buy some kind of paper I don't know in Austria in another country. So, on the other hand, if there is a disturbance there that you know that you will be paid, that you know that if something happens, what is the process of resuscitating that there are some responsibilities, or uniform treatment at EU level, for a unique treatment. Because when there are many disorders, there is always someone on one side who loses, but these mechanisms are being strengthened here, and that's why, on behalf of the SDP Club, we support this, these are good laws. Today when I say when they are, they are not yet such shocks on the financial market seem like irrelevant laws. However, when some kind of disorder occurs, it is good to have them in these times to prepare for any disturbances that may arise and therefore the SDP club will also support this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109955	Next is the debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Anthony Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109956	... A secretary with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] Here's a colleague of Lalovac's who brought us into the troubles of this bill. The HDZ Club will support the first reading of this Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Framework for Recovery and Rehabilitation of Central and Other Contracting Parties. As is said, this is a technical law which is necessary to strengthen the institutions of financial institutions and control institutions in the Republic of Croatia extremely useful. We are a small market, but since we are entering the euro, we are entering all mechanisms that we will have to respect as euro area stakeholders. We must definitely and apply all these laws that really seem great to us to the heritage of the EU at this point. Our capital market is the way it is, it will certainly never grow to the level of some large economies, but all that needs to be protected and this little trade, this little, this little, this Zagreb Stock Exchange and all the relations between the trading parties is good and they would definitely say those are good times when we have to regulate our relations on the financial market when and if it comes and there will certainly be any disturbances that we can intervene and protect all those who are on the market. So, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have approached, and I would say, to that integration which in some ways is based practically on our financial market and on the government's legislator and the ministry to integrate into all processes in the EU, especially because what has already been said today in the presentation of our fellow Lalovac, we are today going to vote the Law on the euro that dictates some kind of law in the whole beauty of the law that we have passed and that we are still going to bring all this about today and we are talking about it. So it's very important that these laws are summed up to protect our investors. The state secret has said a lot about this in its opening statement, and it seems to me that we will have a lot of work to do through the Committee on Finance, through draft laws that will come to the table to integrate maximum into all processes in the EU. Here's the HDZ club. They'll probably back this bill. This is a technical law, I really wouldn't be repeating the Secretary of State right now. I think it's pretty much said up until now and the HDZ club repeats once again that it will support this law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109957	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-13-0.u109958	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2021/23 on the Framework for the Recovery and Rehabilitation of Central and Other Contracting Parties, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 273, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2021/23 on the Framework for the Recovery and Rehabilitation of Central and other Contracting Parties is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. 117 MPs and MPs voted, 116 for and 1 abstentions, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out by the HRT Act and the contract between the Croatian Radio and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. The applicant is the HRT Programme Council. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: That report shall be adopted. Please, let's vote. 114 MPs and MPs voted, 72 for, 11 abstentions, 31 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
