ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u102927	Thank you very much, Vice President. Civil education and education is part of a program called School of Life, which has been applied since the school year 2019 and '20. The programme aims to focus on lifelong learning for the purpose of testing the applicability of new curricula and to transfer to students certain values and competences. The main goal is to train and strengthen students to become active citizens and to make it easier for them to get along in today's pluralist society. This established three main domains dealing with civic education and education, which are human rights, democracy and the social community. In particular, it wants to develop a critical opinion based on ethical, ethical principles and communication skills that are important for social and political participation in society. Following this, Varazdin County conducted through a public call to co-finance civil education and education programmes in practice in the school year 2021/2022. with 47 primary and secondary schools throughout the Varazdin County. The aim was, the objective of the call was to give students the opportunity to develop through various projects into a whole person in order to make decisions in a society full of challenges as easily as possible. The interest of the Varazdin County through civil education projects is to actively involve students in the work of the school community and prepare for life in today's world and train them to participate in public life. From school community to local and state to global. There was also a ceremony in which 5 of the most successful projects, 3 in the competition of primary schools and 2 in the competition of secondary schools. So the most successful were the Basic School Sad with the project "sustainable and domestic", the Bizak Elementary School with the project "I understand finance, I buy smart" and the Petar Zrinski primary school from Jalzabet with the project "our green print". In the competition of secondary schools, the best were the Ivanec High School with the project "Multicultural Integration", which aimed to encourage interest in meeting different cultures and in intercultural cooperation by accepting foreign immigrants and workers as full-fledged citizens and the music school in Varazdin with the project "non-stigmatising, non-discriminatory" project "non-stigmatise and non-discrimination" aimed at developing skills and skills that contribute to personal development and preventing prejudice, stereotype and hate speech. Here, I am unusually glad that I can also show this brochure published by the Varazdin County together with, with cooperation with all primary and secondary schools in our county and this brochure of civil education of the project type where our pupils and pupils of primary and secondary schools are trained to make decisions in their school community. They designed the projects themselves, the project proposal, made the activities of how to implement it and made it a financial plan or realised it according to the financial resources, and their budget was 10.000 kuna. I especially thank all teachers and mentors who have decided to study and teach children about the importance of civic education. Head of the Educational, Culture and Sport Management Department of the Varazdin County, Mr Miroslav Hudjek and of course the Mayor of the Varazdin County of Angelka Stricak, which enabled the implementation of the project and showed that sometimes great things do not require great resources and great and too much wisdom but the inclusiveness of all and give opportunity to our young people. I'm sorry there aren't any here today and these progressive lefties to hand them this copy, too, so they can see what they can do, what students can do. Thank you. Thank you very much, Vice President. Civil education and education is part of a program called School of Life, which has been applied since the school year 2019 and '20. The programme aims to focus on lifelong learning for the purpose of testing the applicability of new curricula and to transfer to students certain values and competences. The main goal is to train and strengthen students to become active citizens and to make it easier for them to get along in today's pluralist society. This established three main domains dealing with civic education and education, which are human rights, democracy and the social community. In particular, it wants to develop a critical opinion based on ethical, ethical principles and communication skills that are important for social and political participation in society. Following this, Varazdin County conducted through a public call to co-finance civil education and education programmes in practice in the school year 2021/2022. with 47 primary and secondary schools throughout the Varazdin County. The aim was, the objective of the call was to give students the opportunity to develop through various projects into a whole person in order to make decisions in a society full of challenges as easily as possible. The interest of the Varazdin County through civil education projects is to actively involve students in the work of the school community and prepare for life in today's world and train them to participate in public life. From school community to local and state to global. There was also a ceremony in which 5 of the most successful projects, 3 in the competition of primary schools and 2 in the competition of secondary schools. So the most successful were the Basic School Sad with the project "sustainable and domestic", the Bizak Elementary School with the project "I understand finance, I buy smart" and the Petar Zrinski primary school from Jalzabet with the project "our green print". In the competition of secondary schools, the best were the Ivanec High School with the project "Multicultural Integration", which aimed to encourage interest in meeting different cultures and in intercultural cooperation by accepting foreign immigrants and workers as full-fledged citizens and the music school in Varazdin with the project "non-stigmatising, non-discriminatory" project "non-stigmatise and non-discrimination" aimed at developing skills and skills that contribute to personal development and preventing prejudice, stereotype and hate speech. Here, I am unusually glad that I can also show this brochure published by the Varazdin County together with, with cooperation with all primary and secondary schools in our county and this brochure of civil education of the project type where our pupils and pupils of primary and secondary schools are trained to make decisions in their school community. They designed the projects themselves, the project proposal, made the activities of how to implement it and made it a financial plan or realised it according to the financial resources, and their budget was 10.000 kuna. I especially thank all teachers and mentors who have decided to study and teach children about the importance of civic education. Head of the Educational, Culture and Sport Management Department of the Varazdin County, Mr Miroslav Hudjek and of course the Mayor of the Varazdin County of Angelka Stricak, which enabled the implementation of the project and showed that sometimes great things do not require great resources and great and too much wisdom but the inclusiveness of all and give opportunity to our young people. I'm sorry there aren't any here today and these progressive lefties to hand them this copy, too, so they can see what they can do, what students can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103021	You, too. Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103022	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, who can call names like this considering how many of us are in this assembly, but what is there? So, although it is not an absolute rule, a large number of museums in the world do not work on Mondays either. Monday is the day most museums have chosen as their day off. It's logical because museums have to be open on weekends because of the number of visitors, and then Monday became vacation day. And if you want to go to a museum on Monday, there's a great chance you'll kiss the door. It seems to me that the next step for the Upper City here in Zagreb is that very step. One Monday we'll all kiss the door together in an attempt to get up there. We who work here together with the tenants and tourists. We'll head up to the Upper City, and on some plate on the door, it'll say, "Mondays closed." And we'll be banging our heads in wonders how we could forget that Monday's museums aren't working. It really seems to me that the Upper Town is becoming a big museum and it's not very fun. There is no effort to make visitors fun and instructive. The door is mostly closed, no interactive content, no museum store with interesting books, posters and other items related to the exhibition. An empty, boring museum that has a big question about whether there's anything to offer in the rest of the week. The latest news is that we're closing and the only remaining store here. There may be something else to negotiate, trade may be taken over by another company, but the situation best speaks about the situation in which part of the city some consider the pearl of Zagreb is located. It will no longer be available for bread and milk. More than 2 years. since the earthquake most of the students who gave the upper city that pleasant dawn of youth do not go to their schools, they stand as some monuments of the failed restoration, and the greatest shame of the Croatian government, there is no grea, there is no school, and there are no customers for this small shop, the departure of students as if the last nail was in the coffin of the oldest part of the City of Zagreb. Except for the tenants themselves, the only ones who come regularly are the people who work in the assembly, government, constitutional court and some institution, and the council and government of their headquarters, their last card, who have recently been just like an evil fairy tale stepmom, not a good tenant, let alone a mother. We like to admire our history, the tradition of Croatian statehood, our assembly, the Ban Courts and Mark's Church, and what it looks like in reality, regrettable. It has been a year and a half since after the armed attack on Mark's square, the fence was placed temporarily so that we were assured, a lasting full solution will be found, said Prime Minister Plenkovic, and this permanent overall solution is clearly still being sought. What we have are tenants and visitors to whom Mark’s square has become unreachable, the Upper City has been cut and fenced in its headquarters, the space inside the fence is increasingly becoming parking, as time moves away more cars there is its place like in those old good times when it is still freely parked, but it is not free, closed and fenced. Government sessions are no longer held here, in the Ban Courts of Lights, and I guess there are some other activities. The state of the assembly building is best known by those of us who work here, more than 2 years. There is no recovery after the earthquake, and there is no telling when or whether it will ever begin. Most of the institutions of the state are unable to restore to themselves, so it is no wonder that citizens have nothing to expect. Prime Minister Plenkovic likes to boast that he is the longest-ever prime minister with the longest-ever government, and what it is all about. The upper city is the heart of this state and the heart of Zagreb, not only because of history, not only because of tourists but also because of the present and the future, decisions are made here, our most institutions are here, and what is most important here are people. The image of the Upper Town is our picture, and no matter how many pink glasses we put on reality, it's pretty lame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103092	Thank you very much. Ms. Marina Opačak Bilić Club Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103093	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The other day here at the HS meeting during the discussion of the Law register of persons with disabilities I referred to the secretary of state a question about the indifferences and controversy that relate to the exercise of the right to a personal disability, after which an avalanche of people who appear to me with their own personal examples and examples of their children and other family members and from groups of very different diagnosiss, but where in each of these examples, the diagnosis is as permanent as blindness, deafness, immobility or Down syndrome, and some of them have more than two or more diagnosiss. There was then an avalanche reaction of people who appeared to me with examples of all the illogicalities in granting the right to a personal disability as well as the behaviour and action of witches, and ultimately to the maximum extent with examples of illogicality associated with re- and control skills for diagnosis that are permanent, permanent and incurable. Similarly, most citizens who are not part of this topic are surprised by the absurdity of such an example of the treatment of one and such a threatened group of citizens. An absurd and incredible procedure of continuous art and evaluation of persons whose disability unfortunately over the years will not go away. The fact that the exercise of this right depends on, among other things, on the place where the request is handed over and depends on the expert and on the doctors who are processing it is also devastating because persons who have equal or similar physical damage do not exercise equal rights, depending on the place of application, for example, the person with the same diagnosis of the right to a personal disability in Rijeka will, for example, be able to achieve the same rights in Vinkovci, for example, because this is mainly dependent on the assessment and on the work and practice of the institution there. I believe that as a social state, it is our duty and it is high time to finally settle this issue and, therefore, it is necessary to urgently approach the resolution of such unfair wrongs and to introduce precise rules and equal treatment for all. Unequal criteria for the granting of the right to a personal disability are reflected as I have said in all forms of disability, and are most pronounced in people with deafness, blindness and people with Down syndrome. Since the criteria for the exercise of the right to a personal disability are not uniform, it comes to the fact that, for example, although all children and persons with diagnosis of Down syndrome have a solution to disability, not all have equal rights when granting a personal disability. So, without any logic, one part of the person with a diagnosis of Down syndrome realizes this right until the other part with identical diagnosis simply can't achieve it. Also, people with diagnosis and parents of children with developmental disabilities for years are, as I said, complaining about the work and behaviour of experts when deciding to use the personal disability measure. Despite their many - year warning, however, the corrections of such unequal practice neither in the announcement nor in authority show little hearing about this problem. I will mention that the parents of children with Down syndrome are also complaining of unequal practice when granting parent-teacher status and, except that there is no uniform practice for all persons with disabilities related to the exercise of the right to a personal disability, those who have achieved this right must be subject to regular re-experience depending on the decision of the witches, so every year, two or three, even when it comes to what I have said about permanent and incurable conditions. So the question is, is this about one spin to save, so is this about savings because last year the amount of personal disability increased by 250 kuna per user, and this might be about balancing the costs by reducing the number of people who are entitled to it? When we talk about Down syndrome, the fact is that chromosomal abnormalities are permanent and that they cannot be treated and the need for re- and control skills is unclear every two, three years for patients like this. This process further and needlessly slows down and makes it difficult to realise the rights of the most sensitive groups of our society. Likewise, when we talk about the work of witches, this is certainly not an example of a rational availability of resources, and it is also a burden for this sensitive population. I ask the Ministry to verify the conduct of the art and to introduce uniform criteria so that the practice in exercising the right to a personal disability is equal to that of all persons with equal diagnosis and also to seek a response when an equal system can be expected to operate. Can we expect the treatment to be the same for everyone with precisely defined rules because it is currently such a practice that the system does not work? I will certainly update this issue through the parliamentary question, and here The message of those who are cut off who say or give us all equal rights, or let them end them all. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103094	Thank you very much, thank you. And we move on to a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. The first is Mr. Ante Kujundzic in front of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103168	Thank you, Chairman. So even during Yugoslavia, a Partizan film was made in Imotsko, and the director sought the extras who would be Ustasha. And the holy place was gathered, and one of the multitudes lifted up his hand, and asked the director, Will you give us the uniforms, or shall we bring ours? Of course it's about the joke, but the truth is that it's about the end that's leaning on calling at least so right-wing politics, an end that actually loves and preserves its tradition. And in the time of the Homeland War, it was the area where no bullet was fired, and it gave 220 sons to create our Croatia. And the end of which often times this right policy praises and somehow thanks it by keeping the figurines to believe them again. Unfortunately, though, I wish there was one form of joke on the moment when it was promised that the Realm would be a new Provence. I would also like it to be a form of joke several already-election cycles in which it promises to live the Imotian landscape an important, fast-connected road. The end that in 30 years from that same policy got what? More than 10,000 sons and daughters permanently evicted. He received a daily hospital in the term of our Milan Kujundzic and received a tunnel of St. Illia in the term of the doctorate of Eve Sanader. The area where the birthplace was stolen was stolen, an area where we have two pediatricians who have fifty children on a daily basis on a daily basis, who have more than 800 extra patients, an area that is left to themselves and its own small budgets and suicide capital projects in its units of local administration and self-government. We can say freely that this is the end where HDZ has turned its back from the national level. And while we're free to say that the first three letters that children learn are the H, D and Z questions that we have left when the Imotian landscape, when the real man will turn his back on that same HDZ and give the thumb down. To give a thumb down for years not only of inaction, but a thumb down politics that we don't matter to. And what are the indications that we don't matter? While about 2 billion kuna is invested in the islands at year level, the island population has various subsidies from maps, water, etc. etc. And I don't mind. How fortunate that, of course, our people living on islands can have a much bigger investment and a much better scholarship question that I ask is that they got the Dalmatian Zagora, what's gotten the property end over the years? Is our Croatia worth what the government often boasts is even development. Is the property end, I repeat the Dalmatian Zagora in general in one form of even development. And lastly, we're not looking for much, we're not looking for anything or anything, and we know very well what we need. No one should come up and tell us what we should do. And we don't need any different fig leaves that someone's throwing at us, etc. We don't even need crumbs, we've had enough. What we need is just a little bit of hope, hope that it's worth staying alive and working in that area, and that can only be an intervention of the state urgently today. And I'm going to end up with a government cashman who says about pushing into his chest to make sure it's okay. to be a little less sound, those punches, and to be on the other side, deep and content. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103245	Mrs. Sandra Bencic, the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103246	I thank the chairman. So today I'm going to talk about something that I mentioned the other day, and it concerns the losers and the big winners of this energy crisis that is just passing through Croatia, but also the rest of the EU. So, the other day, I was talking about the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as those taken by some other EU Member States, with regard to the reduction of excise duties and margins on oil and oil derivatives, and in order to reduce, of course, those prices to end-users have their very dark side. This dark side of the medal, the reduction of these excise duties is a reduction in the revenues of the state budget and not of any revenue but of those which are intended and which are then invested in local and regional infrastructures such as roads, etc. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to give up these revenues, but in a way that has actually denied them to those to whom these revenues go, which are units of regional and local self-government. And we'll say okay. We have to intervene because the price of gasoline is such that it threatens the population. And indeed, it threatens the population. But on the other hand, by giving up these excise duties, do we actually allow all the profit from it to go to whom? Oil companies and other companies based on fossil fuels. And now I'm going to tell you, it's globally recognized as a problem. It is recognized as a problem that indeed in this crisis the profits of oil companies are increasing to a level that the financial director of BP is one of the world's largest oil companies said literally, that the truth is we never had profits like now, in history we didn't have them and that the truth is we have to pay off extraordinary dividends because we don't know where we're going with so much cash. The truth is also that INA, our oil company this year in the first quarter, so they issued a first quarter financial report, increased profits, so no income, profit from 2021 by 1027%. If you say it was a covid year I'll tell you how much it increased compared to 2019 before the covid year 400%. We want to talk a little bit about other companies that our energy depends on. Let's also talk a little bit about PPD, how much income they have increased and how much profits they have increased. So PPD's 2021 income was a record 21 billion kuna. So before that, they were below half that value. Their profit, the net profit last year would be at a level of 312 million kuna with that year in 2021. large PPD investments in food industry, agricultural land, etc. And yet they had about 80 million kunas more profit than in the year before. Whose money are those profits? The money of our citizens. And of course I've asked a logical question, if the state gives up revenue from excise duties, so is there any way to make it up to them? There is. There's something called vinfultex or a one-time tax on extra profits from those companies that got those profits not because they took extra risks or did something but because they profited from the crisis. And then I got this guy's reaction, so doesn't she know that we live in capitalism, so here's what countries introduce him. It has already introduced Great Britain, Germany is considering introducing, the United States is preparing an introduction, so let Germany, the United States and Great Britain be a proletarian country because they introduce taxes on extra profits. And we give it up, we give it up, but we don't give up the state by ourselves, but we give up that money to the citizens whose money is being redistributed from the state budget, and we let thousands of people who have been socialized by the cost of the crisis become rich only by individuals. In the end, MOL will be the one that will receive half a billion kuna from Croatia this year. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103325	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103326	Dear Vice President HS Mr Furio Radin, colleagues and colleagues. The constitution of a state is the largest legislative act and the first constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the Christmas Constitution was adopted on 22 December 1990. when they are on the existing Constitution of the SR of Croatia from '74. A number of amendments have been adopted in order to have a modern and independent state. '97. There is a first change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the name HS or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is changed to the Croatian National Assembly, the preamble of the Constitution is built on the Homeland War and its military legitimate liberating action. 2000. There is a third change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the name of the largest legislative body from the Croatian National Assembly to the HS is changed again, and the role of the county homes is defined differently, from the semi-presidential system we are turning into a clean parliamentary system. 2001. The third time the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia changes when the county home is abolished and the Croatian Parliament is no longer a two-part body. 2010 For the fourth time, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is amended. In order to make it easier to enter the EU, the conditions for a referendum decision have been tempered, and a half majority of all voters are no longer required, rather than a relative majority of those who go to the referendum. In addition, the right to access information becomes a constitutional category, and the role of the Ombudsman is strengthened. I 2013 for the last time there was a change, I would even say here to supplement the constitution and not because they wanted to rule and because they wanted politicians but because the Association "In the Name of the Family" managed to collect a sufficient number of signatures, and the citizens in the referendum decided that the constitutional category would become a marriage as a living community of men and women. These days, the change of the constitution they want to set in motion by ruling, primarily HDZ, is mentioned again with regard to the Institute of Referendum where there are certain shifts primarily in terms of the number of signatures needed to call a referendum, which would have dropped to 250 thousand from the previous 10% and some 368 thousand, respectively, and would have extended the deadline for collecting signatures to 40 days. However, we stand before the Croatian Sovereigns that if we change the constitution that we need to amend some other provisions and define all the details to the end. In fact, there are 151 MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, 8 MPs are from the ranks of national minorities, we are of the opinion and we believe that the rights of parliamentary representatives from the ranks of national minorities who are elected on separate constituencies that have mandates at the beginning. In fact, representatives of national minorities should not have the right to vote in confidence or not to trust a single minister or the Government of the Republic of Croatia or, in fact, the layman's representatives of national minorities would not be able to make a parliamentary majority. We are already aware that for years the Croatian government has been dependent on eight representatives of national minorities or has a very thin parliamentary majority, and these representatives of national minorities have been defined at the beginning, or their mandates. So behind me, the esteemed vice president of Furio Radin has been sitting in HS for 30 years. In fact, on many occasions since '92, I was still a child...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103327	Mr. Pavlovich, you have no right to speak to me, so you have a warning. You can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103328	Since '92. as a representative of the Italian national minority. On several occasions he had...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103329	Mr. Pavlichek, you have a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103330	I'm not talking to you guys.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103331	You have a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103332	I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103333	While I'm sitting here, no, when I'm sitting there, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103334	I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103335	Then who? Who?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103336	I speak to the Croatian public, I give facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103337	No, you're not talking to me as I chair, I'm just the president here. I'm nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103338	Certain parliamentary deputies were elected nine times to HS if they had not had several times the anti-candidate, sometimes even one, two or three candidates at most, thanks to the existing electoral law. So ordinary Croats and citizens could only tell me that we have to be Furio Radin and sit in HS for 30 years. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103339	Listen, if you're a geezer, let's keep it thick. If you're sovereign in the thick, stay sovereign in the thick. Mr. Sacic, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103340	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103341	See if anyone, I won't give you a warning because you've raised one question, the question is whether the one who speaks may be the one who presides the Dahl can talk about him and whether he can be treated. I say no, which it says or I have to give him the right to it because I'm chairing everyone right now at this point you understand me. I won't give you a warning. You've asked a legitimate question, I think I've answered your question, Mr. Pavlovichk, but if you want to be given a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103342	Your Honor, Vice President. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, you made it impossible for the parliamentary representative to state his position on several occasions, and you interrupted him. The parliamentary representative spoke not to you but to the fact that a certain parliamentary representative was in the nine convocations of HS. Isn't that a fact? And why you've disabled further speech and interrupted on many occasions if I have the right to speak freely like all other colleagues, I haven't communicated directly with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103343	Time. I'll tell you one more thing, I won't give you a warning because I really should have given it before. No, I won't give you a warning because that would mean you can't talk anymore. While I'm sitting here, you should have respect for this chair, not this chair as it is said in Croatian, yes, not me. So if I'm sitting here you won't talk about me and you won't treat me you won't talk to me that's how it is. That would be worth it to anyone else sitting here from Mr. Vidovic, that's all. If you don't want that I won't give you a warning, but if you want to remember the future ok, if you don't, I'll be forced to give you a warning still. And that's how much that's a general fact, right, that's a general fact as to who's sitting here is that in this assembly, right? Here you go, Mrs. Peovic. I think it's beneath me to talk to you about what I want to say, to me under the honor of talking to you about it. Here you go. Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Ante Prickin's turn. It will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement and its position. Oh, no? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103440	Sure. Thank you, Mr. President, or Vice President. Last Friday at the Croatian Assembly wonders unseen. The most agile, did I turn this on? The most agile representative and defender of the interest of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the Croatian Parliament, Mr Boris Milosevic, delivered a position in the interest of the Serbian Orthodox Church, although he did not directly mention it. I did what I called a miracle unseen, and he started telling the truth. Even in one sentence of two truths. I was shocked because I know that the interest of the Serbian Orthodox Church here can be defended in two ways. The interested Serbian side defends him with lies and counterfeits, not all Serbs. There are Serbs in Croatia who think what I think about the contract between the Croatian state and the Serbian Orthodox churches. So, the interested party with counterfeits and lies, and the partner HDZ or SDP's tolerance, ignorance, uninterestedness bordering diletanteism that is equal to high treason. After all, the contract signed by the Croatian state with the Serbian Orthodox Church is just such a, legally ridiculous, no harm to be looked at and destroyed by a man. A property, a resulting political disaster, for Croatia's disaster, for the Serbian side of success. They got assets that didn't belong to them at all, they got status that didn't deserve it, etc. But let us dedicate ourselves to the star of Mr. Boris Milosevic and his truths. So, warning us Croats and Serbs that we used to work well together, we understood each other 174 years ago when the Serbian patriarch enthroned the Croatian Ban, as the Serbian patriarch said. Had he said it only once, I would have let it go, but four times repeated that the Serbian patriarch ensnared the Croatian Ban. You know why that is? It's for those half-liters, and that's how they lead this country and run it. When a Serbian patriarch is repeated four or five times before two hundred Serbian patriarchs, the people realize that the church is an Orthodox Serb church and that property is the Orthodox property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. But now I'm going to tell you how Rajačić became a patriarch, the archbishop first. So, the custom and rule in the Habsburg monarchy but also in accordance with the canon of Orthodoxy, the state chief, and that was then seem to me not Carlo but Ferdinand V. Habsburg-Lotarian issued an order to maintain a church folk council and to propose a new archbishop of the Charles Archdiocese. And really through the vote it turned out that Rajačić was even there a little bit of trouble, but I won't waste any time on it. Generally, there was even a Croatian ban, Ivan Sechen, and no Serbian political representative was present. Mostly the Habsburg King accepted Rajačić as an archbishop. If you look at the Syntagma of the Chamber that came out in 1855 in Athens, where the list of Orthodox churches in the 7th place is the Karloslav Archdiocese, there is nothing at the 9th Montenegrin Orthodox Church of the Serbian Orthodox Church. So when you look further at that syntagma in it, it says that Josip Rajačić is the archbishop of the eclectic monarchy of the Austrian monarchy, and his duty is or his title is the blessed and sacred archbishop of Karlovac, there is nothing Serbian. It was in 1842 that it lasted until its death in 1861, in 1848 the most interesting things happened, the war in the Hungarian fight was the Croats and Austrians with the Hungarians. Hungarians in a rather difficult position then Croats and Austrians maintain Serbs in South Hungary to create the so-called The Serbian Vojvodina. When the Serb Vojvodina was created then, the Serbian Vojvodina administratively gives this patriarch the title of the Serbian patriarch, it is accepted by the Croats by no one before Rajačić and the Croats and the Austrians because it is an interest to wage war with the Ugars. No one before Rajacic ever wore this title and nothing Serbian or 4.5 episcopes before him or 4.5 episcopes after him. So that's that Byzantine wisdom.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103568	You, too. Mrs. Andreja Maric, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103569	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The availability of healthcare within the Republic of Croatia is extremely uneven. It is particularly weak in rural areas and in islands. In addition, the continued outflow of health care personnel from the public sector to the private sector or abroad, particularly doctors and nurses, whom there is already too little in the beginning, leads to an unequal staff structure, i.e. to too few healthcare workers in certain areas and in certain activities. A very similar situation with the amount and quality of medical equipment needed to provide health services which is also very unevenly distributed. The most visible indicator of this problem is waiting lists especially for hospital searches or procedures, which even in areas where the availability of health care is formally higher, for example in cities it is not realistic and citizens' rights to health care remain on paper alone. It concerns the obvious lack of interest of the health administration in pro-actively dealing with their reduction. The best marketing tool for the private sector, i.e. the silent privatisation of health care, is also a secret. It is one of the worst indicators of the real state of the Croatian health system that shows mortality from the causes that could have been avoided, so deaths that would not have happened if patients had access to timely and effective health care. We're bad in Europe. The largest share of these deaths in Croatia are deaths from cardiovascular diseases, colon and breast cancers. Even worse, it is with an indicator of mortality than the causes that could be prevented, so the causes that could have been avoided by better public health prevention such as lung cancer, alcohol consumption-related diseases and traffic accidents that also make us poor third in the EU. Unfortunately, Croatia does not look better on other health indicators. Too little response to screening early detection programs for colon cancer is only 20%. Breasts, on average, 60%. HDZ Minister Nakic has stopped the programme of early detection of uterus cancer, and the current minister has not yet launched it. We'll see what success will be in early detection of lung cancer. The health literacy of our citizens is at the lowest in the EU. Prevention and early detection are a huge problem. Recently, Minister Beros announced great and proudly that mandatory systematic checks are being introduced for all adult citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The reviews will be conducted by age and gender, conducted once a year or once every two years depending on the age group. It sounds nice to prevent and detect disease early, but the first information if citizens refuse to provide additional health insurance could be more expensive. Secondly, who and when, with existing waiting lists and lack of healthcare professionals, will carry out systematic checks and how the overloaded public health system will take on another such comprehensive task. The third, which is the purpose of cost-benefit effect, to review untargeted all three million adult citizens. There is not a single scientific and professional stand to review all age groups of healthy 19-year-olds. Next, how will all these systematic checks be financed? The average price of the examination which, in addition to the examination of the specialist, includes the basic laboratory, ECG, ultrasound of the abdomen, urologist, or gynecologist for women, possibly heart and lung x-rays is at least 1000 kuna. Three million views times 1,000 kuna is three billion kuna. Who's the money going to go to? The minister says we'll increase salaries to family doctors in return, even them with hospital coefficients. Well, that should have been done a long time ago. When will the medics do the tests? Within working hours? Out of time? In public health or maybe in private? Getting new equipment. Minister's buddies will sell a little more of their devices and equipment to the system. The resolution ministry has every little burden on new affairs and suspicious competitions. Minister Beros and his announced task force for the systematic review of the nation can be expected to adopt a plan that the overloaded system can carry out, to design a review that is at least as systematic as it can be called, to define which age and risk groups, when and how they must carry out the review. However, solutions to improve the health picture of our citizens have been presented in the ministry on several occasions. And professional associations and us from the opposition, especially what we're a profession. He hasn't applied them yet. Disposal of doctors and nurses from unnecessary administration is the first step. Stimulating family doctors to take over directing their patients to respond to existing screening programs, better education and information from our citizens from kindergarten to beyond. So, there are solutions and I can start to spend tomorrow. Ministers are on the move! It's up to you what a health picture of our citizens will look like to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103656	Come on, just a little note, I'm no one's lawyer, but you've had a little more votes than your fellow Radin in the election, so it's not exactly some correct exposure. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103657	Mrs. Peovic, you can't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103658	Why me?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103659	I have to give it to you, not because I'm not going into content, but I have to give you a warning because you simply took one role that isn't yours at the moment, but you have another topic, do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103660	I got that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103661	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103662	I wanted to tell you something in favor of ok. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103664	Okay. What I wanted to ask today is, do we even have public health care? If we consider that in some hospitals in just one Coronal year, the number of operations dropped by 61%, the question is, do we even have public health care and how are we going to improve it? It's not just about waiting lists that have grown, but on the other hand, the private sector that's advertised extensively. Says one on the tram you can be late, but not for review, but also for corruption in public health where doctors working at the same time in public health and private use of public health in favour of private health. We all know that patients are being sent in private because there's no time, no equipment, there's no doctor to do all the research in public. The same is true of those patients who came to a doctor in private practice, so they come before the public health order, and they can't get to that in any way. Certainly not in the way that Minister Beroš thinks to jump, we know that the law prohibits the publication of a list of doctors working in parallel in public and private health, which would allow patients to recognise whether it is a conflict of interest when the doctor sends them into his private practice, and we also know that what Minister Beroš is now announcing and will be hit by lobbyist groups, and even if he passes he will do nothing for public health, which is to make an analysis of the effectiveness, thus adopting the efficiency of health workers working in both sectors and bringing standards of acceptable lengths of waiting. Already now, it means that there is at all approvals for work in private practice, so we know the Labour Act, up to eight hours a week, you can work at another workplace, 180 hours a year, and now it means approval given under the Health Care Act, Article 157, which is referred to as a rule that one who works additionally must be aware of the work and must carry out all his duties at his place of work, 180 hours a year and now means approval is given under the Health Protection Act, Article 157, which is referred to as a rule which states that he who works additionally must be aware of the worker and must carry out all his duties in his workplace. So even now, these permits could be taken away from those who are not to say so by conscious workers. But not waiting lists are only there because some doctors are not aware of workers, but they are really neglecting public health and we are coming to the conclusion that public health cannot be expected to treat their population more. Therefore, the Workers' Front came with a proposal to amend the Health Protection Act in two ways. One is to delete paragraph 157, which allows doctors to work parallelly in private and public health. The second is the addition of Article 156a. Which was provided in one version of the Health Protection Act, but was deleted in just two days. Lobby groups act very effectively, and he forbade doctors to open private practice if they work in public health. We also have similar legal solutions in the Labour Act that prevents a worker from opening up practice, meaning which is competitive with the employer and we have the same thing in the Law on Public Servants where the same thing is imposed as normal, is that the worker does not enter into a competitive relationship with his employer, i.e. the State. What we expect, even now, with his proposals from Minister William Beros, the lobbyist group will react. He'll say I've tried, failed and things will be over. I warn that in the healthcare sector, healthcare professionals over 56% have higher salaries than media pay in Croatia, and in this, statistics are entered not only by doctors but by all healthcare professionals. Therefore, doctors do have relatively good salaries compared to Croatia's average. What's still worth saying is that apparently private practice needs to be resolved because they're making deals and debts, means hospitals. Private practice has contracts because it cannot be provided for people. So we pay practically the same worker twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103695	Thank you very much. And as I announce to Mrs. Catherine Nemett from the IDS, I say that in Istria my first words are M A M M A. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103696	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to warn you from this pay phone today about a current problem that I have to admit I'm experiencing and I'm experiencing in a special way. Since I myself have been a court official for many years and have felt in my own skin what my former colleagues and colleagues are experiencing today, unfortunately. Namely, in front of judicial and state-owned lawyer buildings in 15 Croatian cities yesterday and the day before yesterday, officials and deputies employed in the judiciary were dissatisfied with their position and material rights. I would like to remind you that the protest was decided on account of the particularly difficult material situation and the threatened existence of employees in the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the correction of injustice from 2019, when the 9% increase did not cover all officials and deputies from the judicial authorities. The fact is that, in time, the coefficients were reduced, and in 2019 only a part of the court officials were re-enlarged. However, a good part of them are registerers, administration officials, accounting, land-book reference, reference and leaders in court registers, suppliers, and some other employees remain on reduced coefficients and inaccessible small salaries. According to data from the Justice Department of 7 748 officials and officers in the judiciary, almost 6000 have a net salary of less than 5,500 kuna. The salary for a ten-year staff member is up to 4000 kuna, with a 25-year job internship of 4700 kuna, and for a manager with over 30 years of work experience is 5300 kuna. This is far below the average salary in Croatia, which according to the State Statistics Institute for the period from January to August 2021 amounted to slightly more than 7,000 kuna. I would like to remind you that, in the context of his first annual report on the state of the judicial authority recently addressed to the Chamber, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia warned against the inadmissible low wages of court officials and deputies. The report noted, among other things, that it supports an increase in wages by 30% and specifically warned of the position of court scribes who have a special procedural role in courts and are overburdened and underpaid. The lack of court records is alarming, which directly affects the urgency of the work of judges. However, the situation is similar with other employee profiles. In practice, it is so rare that in the open competitions for the employment of court officials and tenants there is simply no interest just as is not a rare occurrence and that employees go away all because of low incomes, too much work and inadequate working conditions. This also proves, among other things, that the reality in the judiciary is quite different from the perception of the public who I am aware of well-involved in public services considers protected as bear, people who do not do their job or are overpaid for what they do. Believe me, the situation is completely different. From personal experience, I can say that these are largely valuable and responsible people whose work and professional engagement are not adequately valorised and rewarded. We are witnessing that the government, on the one hand, brings a Justice Development Strategy, which sets out priorities and objectives for which implementation will be announced to ensure a stable and secure environment for the more effective work of judicial authorities. But I do wonder, but I also publicly ask the Prime Minister and Minister Malenica how they intend to achieve this when officials who pay for these bodies are not enough to cover the basic needs of life. How to consider a credible government that allegedly goes in the direction of adopting the highest European standards, and officially suspending its deputies three years ago for the right they belong, and keeping them even today in coefficients that cannot and do not allow the regulation of the minimum wage. Let them think it through. Let this week's protest be a yellow card, a reminder that will be taken seriously and without a fig in their pocket through dialogue with the other side find a satisfactory solution. And I personally to my former colleagues and colleagues what they would say to me in Istria, holding figurines to them, wishing their weekly protests were fruitful and to get what they deserve as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103772	Time. I will announce Mr. Damir Bajs, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103773	The Honorable Chairman, even though I am Damir Byce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103774	And what did I say? ... And I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm really sorry. Wait, wait, come back, come back, no, no, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103775	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103776	Here you go, Mr. Damir Byce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u103777	We in Croatia can boast a lot of things, one of them is when we talk about farming the quality of our honey that is best in Europe and the world, and also by the number of bees. But when I'm done with that, then I'll remember that, like the whole world, we have to ask ourselves how long. Two years ago, 57 million bees were killed in the Republic of Croatia, two months ago 700 hives in Međimurje, and two weeks ago, millions of bees died in Bilogor. I have to say that the inspectorate was two years ago, so let's start from then, he said this is what it looks like something's going on in our fields. No one knows what caused this situation to plague 57 million bees. Two months ago in Međimurje, not so long ago, we had the same situation again, the inspector came out, the Resolute Ministry of Agriculture said it would be determined who did it and why they died. It has been shown that this time we know, the spray-using means of protection have led to millions of bees guessing again. And yes, the ministry said it would prevent it from happening again. However, two weeks ago in Bilogor, this miraculously happened again. The question is, of course, how can it be? Isn't he really controlling the entry of an example of protective means into the Republic of Croatia? Is that gonna happen again maybe in two weeks from today? I must say that this suspicion that has not yet been confirmed in Bilogora has led to the question of beekeepers who work both in Međimurje and Bilogori, but also in other counties between the two. Namely, although in the Međimurje case, the ministry said it would compensate for the costs, I am... to be and in the case of bilogari yet our beekeepers are extremely dissatisfied. For what? Namely, compensation damage is one thing, and the establishment of a system within beekeeping is something else, they have contracts... labor, time and when we talk about it then certainly can't be a situation that with the compensation of some material value set up a system that sometimes needed for generations because beekeepers as such actually work normally through generational course. We must say that this makes it perfectly clear, I call on the Resort Ministry of Agriculture to finally start applying the laws that we do not have this sequence of killing bees 57 million, a few million, or in this case in Bilogor, so more beekeepers who are in trouble because of this and all of us living together in Croatia will be in even more trouble if this goes away in Croatia. Therefore, let us wait from the Resorving Ministry of Agriculture to find the culprit, not to repeat it again and, of course, to compensate the beekeepers in the area and Bilogor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114705	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. First item today: - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021. 24. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Just wait a minute because we have a request for a break. The government delivered an opinion before I gave the word to the respected chief state auditor, Ivan Klesic, asked for a break from counterpart Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114706	Dear President of HS, I request a 10-minute recess to further consult on the State Auditor's Report and to further discuss certain items that the Most Club considers should be further explored. Before I go, the Mosta Club believes that the state audit is doing its job with dignity, honor, and that is one of the institutions in the state of the Republic of Croatia that deserves every commendation. But, on the other hand, what we would like to point out is that the case Friday, therefore, is a known case for the reason that we analyzed it in the report, the state subsidy report where the state gave Mr. Friday the money that we know ended up in Mr. Kovacevic's hands to extort known millions of businesses. However, this story does not stop and what he would like to further deepen, precisely the son of Mr. Friday received a mysterious tender for the restoration of Banovina and I was at these facilities Mr. Friday with his ECP companies, I am talking about Mary Friday and Mipek, where, for example, in the house of the House of Bitch in Seli, Sisak 108, 44 237, if someone wants to check, where exactly the company that should be doing the renovation is listed. You know what happened after the first storm? So, the water house was soaked, the knauf was submerged, the floor, the roof and the people were left homeless. And now our question, therefore, is who gets these tenders, can be Friday, Wednesday, Mitek, unrelated, but our people are homeless, our people are left with a sense of rejection and a issued dignity, and we would like to further investigate this case for reasons that we find it unacceptable that our people's houses are not being restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114707	Thank you very much, colleague Troscott. You know this has nothing to do with the State Auditor's Report, but, well, you took your chance at a break. It shall be approved to take a break but in accordance with Article. 293b will continue to work, so now I call on the main state auditor, the respected Ivan Klesic, to speak to us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114708	Mr. President-in-Office of HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Auditing HS, a report on the work of the State Office for Audit for 2021 and the Programme and the Working Plan for 2021, the entities and objects of the revision were established by the Law on the State Office for Audit, the Strategic Plan for the period 2018 to 2021, the Programme and the Agenda for the 2021. In 2021, the audit included all the entities for which the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, the prescribed obligation to carry out the audit each year, which are the annual report on, the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and the audit of political parties, independent representatives whose annual revenues and the value of the assets of more than 100 thousand kuna. All other audits are planned on the basis of the law of the prescribed criteria, which are the risk assessment, the financial significant audit entity, the results of the previous audit, the information collected on the business of the entities and the audit, and other criteria to be established by the internal act in the State Audit Office. According to the 2021 Work Plan, 299 audits were planned, 254 of which were carried out and 45 of the audits planned in 2022 were ongoing at the time when this Report was delivered to HS. All reports of audits carried out have been submitted to HS and DORH and published on our website, the exception is only the report on the effectiveness of the management of strategic commodity stocks in the Republic of Croatia, which we worked for 2019 and 2020, which is marked by the degree of secrecy, meaning very secret because it contains data from documentation marked by the same degree of secrecy and has therefore not been published on our website of the Office, nor have we been allowed to deliver this to our DORH Report. The audits were carried out in accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office, International Standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions and the Code of Professional Ethics of the Work of State Auditors. In 2021, we carried out a financial audit of 229 entities that achieved, with the exception of the state budget, revenues and receipts of HRK 59.9 billion and expenditure and expenditure of € 58.2 billion. The financial audits also established whether the annual financial reports were true and credible, and the business was in line with the regulations and internal acts of the audit entity. The most frequent irregularities and failures in these entities have been identified in financial reports and accounting operations with 129 entities, in the conduct of public procurement procedures among 72 entities, in the field of expenditure and obligations of 65 entities in the planning and implementation of the budget, or in the annual work programme of 46 entities, and in the income and claim of 42 entities. For identified irregularities and failures in the financial audit, entities were given 2684 orders and recommendations in order to remove irregularities, i.e. to take action so as not to repeat irregularities. The audit entities are given two opinions, i.e. an opinion on financial reports and an opinion on the compliance of business, and 99 unconditional, 127 conditional and 3 unfavourable opinions are expressed on financial reports and 107 unconditional, 119 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions are taken. This is for the state budget only the opinion on financial reports is expressed. The performance audit covers the following topics of municipal infrastructure management in the units of local, regional (regional) self-government and the management of strategic goods stocks of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 and 2020. In performance audits, it has been assessed whether audit entities have implemented programmes, projects and activities in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and purpose. In 20 audits of the efficiency of municipal infrastructure management in local self-government units, 537 entities were included and 26 received an effective 198 assessment, an effective assessment requiring certain improvements and 299 subjects partially effective, and 14 subjects received an ineffective assessment. These entities are given 6981 warrants and recommendations. The audit of the effectiveness of the management of the strategic stockpiles was carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the Directorate for Stocks. The main objective of the revision was to assess the effectiveness of the management of the Republic of Croatia's stockpiles. The audit identified certain irregularities and failures, and assessed that the management of strategic stock stocks was partially effective and the Directorate for Stocks was given 17 orders and recommendations in order to increase the effectiveness of the management of the Republic of Croatia's strategic stockpiles. In addition, we checked whether the audit entities acted on orders and recommendations given in the previous audits. Thus, in 2021, we found that out of 1429 orders and recommendations to the given entities in the previous audits 62% were implemented, 8% partially implemented, 6% in the implementation process, 16% of orders and recommendations have not been implemented, whereas due to the change of regulations, 8% of orders and recommendations are not applicable. The results of these audits are more detailed in the individual reports carried out and the pooled reports drawn up according to the groups of entities and in our annual report on the work you are likely to have in front of you. In accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office for all entities which did not comply with our orders and recommendations, which were issued after the entry into force of the new law of March 2019 as well as for those who did not submit a plan of order to the State Audit Office within the prescribed time limit and recommended, of course, the State Attorney's Office. During this reporting period, the Office sent notices to the State Attorney's Office for 7 persons not legally prescribed within 60 days of the receipt of the final report on the audit carried out to the Office, and for 23 entities which failed to carry out the tasks and recommendations given in the previous audits within the deadlines set out in the implementation plan for the tasks and recommendations. In addition, notifications for 35 political parties and 3 independent representatives who did not act in accordance with the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums have been delivered. In addition to the audit operations, other tasks of the office have been planned and carried out relevant tasks for the implementation of the basic activity and those related to methodology, cooperation with judicial and other bodies, international cooperation, public relations, public procurement, IT, staff and accounting affairs. As regards cooperation with judicial and other bodies, this cooperation shall include exchange of documents and reports, answers to requests, clarifications and other information at our office's disposal, and participation in meetings with regard to the findings set out in the audit reports. During this reporting period, at the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Ministry of Interior and Court, documentation and additional clarifications were provided for 45 entities. Our international cooperation with other top audit institutions is also important in order to exchange knowledge and experience. That's how we participated in 21. EUROSAI Congress, where we have been entrusted for the third time with the status of the internal auditor EUROSAI for the period from 2021 to 2021, is entrusted with the establishment and management of the EU-wide ethics networks. Of course, during this year, the office also established an Internet platform to exchange knowledge and experience, as well as to strengthen ethics in top audit institutions and audit entities. In addition, the office participates in the implementation of the twinning project in order to strengthen capacity and improve Parliament's co-operation, i.e. the Co-operation and the State Audit Office of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The office also continued to participate in NATO's group of competent national audit bodies. In order to increase transparency, the office communicated with all interested public through websites, e-mails, press conferences, communications and statements, and answers to questions. In accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office, an independent external auditor carried out an audit of the annual financial report of the State Audit Office for 2021. and gave an opinion on which the financial report, in all relevant particulars, truthfully and fairly, shows the office’s financial position on 31 December 2021. and the financial success of meeting the business objectives of business. I would like to emphasise that the particular challenge for the DUR is to maintain the number of employees, i.e. the employment of new employees. At the end of 2021 Of the 370 systematicd posts in the office, 305 of them were filled with 255 authorised state auditors and during the '21s. The office left 12 employees of which 10 retired, and two employees sought happiness on the other side, of course because of the higher salary. In employment, we face difficulties because it is difficult to obtain professional and experienced persons who are willing to carry out very complex and responsible tasks expected from a state auditor with a salary under the current Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. We believe that a new Law on Payments should be adopted in the State Audit Office, which should cover all employees and which would ensure an adequate evaluation of the work of state auditors and create preconditions for the promotion of employees, since under the current law we only have two levels of coefficients relating to state auditors, which would increase motivation, allow progress and adequate remuneration of all employees. Furthermore, on the basis of the audits carried out, we have found that salaries in the state and public sector are regulated by more than 300 laws and other regulations and internal acts on the basis of which salaries are calculated using three different basics and 567 additions and pay increases. We also found in the audits that the number of regulations as well as their amendments and additions and the need for interpretations of the rules adopted affected the establishment of a system of salaries containing more specificities and exceptions than established regular rules. The application of different basics and numerous additions and wage increases has established a system in which we have a lot of cases where, this is very important, the pay height depends on a lower coefficient for a given job, and to a greater extent on the different pay bases, supplements and pay increases that can partly be accumulated and significantly affect the increase in basic salary. As a result, officials and employees at higher levels of responsibility have lower salaries than the lower level of responsibility employees and that the additions to the increase in salaries are significantly higher than the basic salary. For example, according to the data at the time of our review of the gross salary of the managers of individual agencies or institutions amounted to more than 83,000 kuna, which is, imagine what is twice the gross salary of the president of HS, the President of the Croatian Government and the President of the Republic. Therefore, the established wage system does not allow the application of the principle of equal pay to work of equal value and indicates the need for a systematic wage adjustment at all levels, in particular with regard to the determination of the base of pay and the determination of salary supplements. I'd like to tell you more about the fact that they were in 2021. extensive preparations have been made for the organisation and realization of the damage caused by the earthquake on business buildings of the office in Zagreb. The work on two business buildings on Tkalčić Street is under way, and the realization of the damages in the building in Božovićeva on the street where we have just now signed this extension of the contract and only now should we call a tender for the selection of contractors. Finally, I would like to thank all of you respected MPs and respected MPs who recognize the importance and support the work of the DUR. Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114709	Thank you. Now we're going to move to replicas, there's a lot of them as far as I've seen 19 of them. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, Bujević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114710	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Clesci and his associates. You provide us with one serious report every year, it is always expected of you, and this time you have not failed. In that report, you say that in 2021 you examined or were concerned by your 771 subjects. Let's just say there's a question to me, is that too little? And why is that? Because in all your reports, you state that the ones you visit more often have fewer problems. We also experience that you actually point to everything that should be fixed. Is there any way to fix it, let's say there's more review, to allow us all to actually do our job better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114711	Dear MPs, you've asked a really good question because they know how to be obsessed with the demands of all kinds of media written, television houses, etc. every day. with questions, for example. You haven't been to an institution in six years, which is why you haven't been for two years, three years or maybe never, and we just always answer them in a decent way. The number of liabilities the State audit today has in the Republic of Croatia, which are in our jurisdiction to carry out the audit, went up to 15,000 entities, three years ago there were 12 e.g. Since the office has 255 authorised state auditors, two audits are required annually under the law, meaning annual audit, annual reports on the implementation of the state budget and audit of political parties of independent representatives, etc. So with the people we have to deal with, it's not possible to do that. But what we're doing, we're doing an efficiency review. efficiency audits, which are then covered by e.g. All 576 units of local self-government [[/Intruder President: Thank you. You can finish the sentence.]] Management after... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114712	Thank you. Please just hold on for a minute. Comrade Lalovec, come in. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114713	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Clesic. My issue of managing strategic stockpiles, since this has caused quite a public dispute, a debate, about what is happening here. Since this report was about a year ago you made that report on strategic stockpiles and gave 17 orders and recommendations, I am interested in your opinion. Did they answer you back because a certain period of time had passed? Are these some orders and recommendations that can be corrected in a shorter period of time because the most important thing right now is to calm the public down, right? Because if you have that, it's not an effective strategic supply, you have a particularly secret mark, is it, then it's also a story and citizens being brought up whether we can even manage a team, in times of crisis like this. Because look, if you'd made this report in 2019, no one would have asked for strategic stock. Today it is important and therefore it is important that those who communicate On the other hand, they're very clear on what's going on with yours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They made warrants and recommendations. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114714	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114715	So, Your Honor, Lalovac, I'll tell you this. So our task was therefore to review efficiency in managing strategic stock stocks in the Republic of Croatia in 2019 and 2020 to assess the efficiency of supply management. Therefore, auditors assessed the management of stock stocks partially effective and issued 17 orders and recommendations. Since this report is therefore very secretive, we cannot publish the report on our website, if this is downloaded, that designation of secrecy can only be made available by the Government of the Republic of Croatia who put it in place, of course we will publish. As far as this particular thing is concerned, what you said, I would say, orders and recommendations are our legal obligation to follow orders and recommendations. We will follow that, and if it is not implemented, we will deliver it to the DORH for further action.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114716	Comrade Pavlich, here you go. Oh, I'm sorry, yeah, that's where it's spelled wrong. Here you go. My colleague Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114717	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Mr. Klesic. The state audit really trusts citizens in the work of you and your institutions, surely it is both the results of you and your team and as we see it has not only a control role but also in some way educational and thus preventive. My question would be focused if you think that there is still space and in what areas of review there is the possibility of further contributing to a more efficient and better management of public finances and public property?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114718	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114719	The work of the State Audit Office is therefore very professional, very, I would say, studioized by respecting all legal regulations, we are working on helping our reports also to assist the audit entities to comply with their business regulations. I must admit that we are facing a lot of problems, but I must also point out that today the situation is incomparably better than it was in previous years. I think people got serious and I think this amendment to the EC law at the request of the EC, it's the introduction of sanctions, it's really changed things for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114720	Now it's time for my colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114721	The Honorable Chief State Auditor. The state audit is one of the few institutions that really does their job well and can be the cause of many other state institutions, on your pages I read that you have over 80% of the employees of highly educated persons, especially I am pleased that you have over 80% of women, which may be one of the main causes and reasons why you are so quality and do your job. However, it is also very difficult from your exposure to read that you have over 70, still empty places by systematization, that it is very difficult to find a quality fit, especially with current incomes by state auditors. Do you have any indication whether a change in the wage law will take place in order to have a greater number of employees and thus have a greater number of controls, which is indeed in the interest of the entire Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114722	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114723	Your Honor, I do, and it's easy and difficult to answer your question. The solution to all our problems is that it is necessary to pass a bill on the salaries of authorised state auditors and all employees of the Office. This is also the obligation of this Government to do so because the state audit is an independent institution according to the constitutional category, Art. 54 The Constitution, it just has to be done. So our colleagues at EU level have that status. We do not have it for now, although we thank the Parliament and the Croatian Government for having managed to do some things, which is that our financial plan is now going directly to the Committee on Finance and Budget, not to more entities such as, say, the Ministry of Finance that we are revising. It's incompatible, so it's one big thing, it remains the pay law that I'm sure people will be then, people are interested in working with us, but not for this salary. Thank you very much. I hope you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114724	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114725	Dear President, the respected chief state auditors with their associates. Cheating and corruption are present to a lesser or greater extent in all countries, but with us there is perception that elsewhere these phenomena are unknown, but that is far from true. Can you answer me what the Supreme Audit Institutions and the State Audit Office can do even more to expose and control these negative phenomena and do you have any information on the perception of corruption in other countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114726	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114727	Thank you very much for your question. Several times a year, the main state auditors from all EU member states are in meetings, and these meetings are being discussed among other things and the problem of corruption. All EU-level countries have brought in their anti-corruption programmes and our government has also adopted them. As regards therefore the methodology of the work of state audits everywhere in the world is the same, they are the basis of international audit standards and, therefore, after the report has been completed, they are delivered to the State's attorney for further action. That's what we do, that's what everybody does. As far as this perception of corruption is concerned, let's put it this way. The perception of corruption is that a single assessment is that 120 billion euros disappears at EU level in one year, and the EU budget is 170 billion euros. Now I leave you dear MPs and MPs to compare and combine those two figures. That's almost one, almost one budget goes into corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114728	My colleagues Vidović Kristo, please. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, go ahead. [[Intruder: I answered for you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114729	In 2015, Mr Klesic, the State Review characterised Croatia's privatisation of insurance as an anti-zaconite. But after that finding, I don't know if you've taken the shops to undo that privatisation. Did you forward the kidnapping of Croatia's insurance to the DORH? Has the DORH answered anything about this because the DORH has really done nothing about it. Due to the inaction of the DORH, we now have an absurd situation that one of the main actors of this crime is a certain Vangelic present himself these days even as a person who offers solutions to exit from the crisis. Croatian taxpayers have been damaged in this illegal operation for 3.5 billion kuna. What are you doing as a State Audit to protect the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114731	Dear MPs, I hope you'll be pleased with my answer. The state audit is doing absolutely everything it can under the law, everything. So, completely what you mentioned about Croatia's insurance audit, complete documentation was submitted to the State's Attorney's Office, but we didn't do a privatisation review because the Privatisation Act was abolished. We were reviewing the annual report on the implementation of the state budget where in 2014 the second largest revenue of the state budget was the first VAT, and the second was from the sale of shares in Croatia insurance. The Republic, the State Audit Office has done absolutely everything as always, everything is delivered to the state... They're not to us, they're not to send this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, they're an independent body just like us. You know, please nice. Are you happy with my answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114732	Col. Brumnic's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114733	The President-in-Office of the Assembly has been injured by Article 30. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which I now warn the third, fourth, I have warned you several times in writing. At this point, the Information and Media Committee begins with me. Your task is to organize the work of the assembly so that we can...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114734	Let's sit down and don't say anything that has nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114735	It certainly has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114736	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114737	It certainly matters, your task is to organize the work of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114738	Please sit down, colleague Brumnic, and please do not accuse the president of the assembly because the board president calls a committee at a time when he has the right to call. So I'm not the one who determines the presidents of the board when they're going to call the board. Do not throw your friend Brumnic out of the bench yet, because you will receive a warning. And please tell your board chief, I don't know who he is, to call the board at the moment when this is gone and then vote you 7 there that you don't want the board to have at the time of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And stop accusing me, you do it all the time, you have no basis for it. Here's my colleague, Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114739	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Chief State Auditor, your report shows the transparency of work, the efficiency of the Office of State Audit, of course, expertise. I am interested in the fact that the State Audit Office, in certain cases, is working with the DORH when audit entities do not comply with your recommendations, in your opinion within certain legal deadlines. You're also working with the MUP. I'm interested in feedback whether you have in terms of what they've done in these cases or whether you as the State Audit Office are asking them to give you a report which has been made to avoid repeating the same failures by the same audit entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114740	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114741	Your Honor, the answer will be as many, because the right people always ask me this question. We don't have an absolute, state's attorney's office has absolutely no obligation to report to us on the items we've delivered to them. They're an independent body just like we are. So the only, only possibility I'm going to mention to you ladies is that when it's here a year, when the annual report on the work is submitted by the State's Attorney's office, then you can ask them these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114742	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114743	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Klesic, I always have a very positive opinion and I can only commend your work because you are doing it very honorably, knowingly and qualityly, and you are really delivering reports to us from the representatives that are an excellent basis for our work. I'm going to look back at one of the reports you sent us, and it's about local self-government units because it kind of surprised me, and it's actually not, that we have a few municipalities that got a negative opinion. Among them, between these several municipalities is Gradina small municipality in My election unit in Virovitica-Podravska County, which has a budget of between 6 million and 8 million kuna and where numerous irregularities have been found. [[Intruder: Virovitic.]] What to do so that you can do these over 500 municipalities and cities more often because we see that there are problems of the past. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114744	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114745	Yes, Gradina municipality received an unfavourable opinion from Kloštar Podravski and Povljana in Zadar County. What can we do? It's the only thing I said. This is because financial audits cannot cover 576 units, it is impossible but efficiency audits can handle certain significant topics and thus can address all units. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114746	Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114747	Thank you very much, President. The Honorable Chief State Auditor. Here's from your very comprehensive and transparent report as well as every year on which I sincerely congratulate you, you can see basically everything you should be interested in and representatives in HS, but also our citizens and our public. It also shows that the infringements of the Law on the financing of political promotions and referendums by your office according to the DORH have been directed to 35 political parties and three independent representatives in violation of this Law on Election Promotion and Activity and Referendum, since you have now responded that you are not receiving feedback from the DORH, and since I see that you are following a lot where the public can see what you are doing, or what the final results are. About the injuries. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114748	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114749	The only option is to ask that question to the DORH colleagues when they report here, the other one I don't see, he's gone. I don't know if it's possible to see it on the DORH network pages, but I don't think so. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I hope you're happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114750	Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114751	Dear Chief Auditor. Your informative, transparent and comprehensive report shows that you have carried out an efficiency review in as many as 20 cases in local administration units and self-government regarding the control of their relationship with companies and you have of course found that there is a large majority of these operations, etc. in accordance with the existing regulation. I am now interested in when you plan and whether you plan to perform the same audit in the city of Zagreb compared to the City Gasier of the City of Zagreb, which, according to public data, was destroyed in front of bankruptcy due to our court and what we know by the irresponsible behaviour of their administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114753	Dear Representative Sacic. According to our annual plan and the programme of the State Audit Office, which is based on those criteria that have been established by our law, I will answer you only that we have just started to review the Holding and City of Zagreb, so I think that this is the answer to your question, and that will therefore be one long revision extensive, demanding, and after that I think it will be completed by the end of this business year, and after that we will deliver HS to... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114754	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114755	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your work is of great quality and certainly contributes that we too have a lot of information about what is happening and how. With the latest amendments to the law of 2019, The State Audit Act also introduced the possibility of criminal sanctions for those who do not implement your recommendations and orders. You mentioned that it's about 62% that they're spending, do you think it's good and effective that now it's just that way that they're all responsible for these failures that make it as good and as quality a report as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114757	Dear Representative Peric, I will answer you like this, yes, since 2019. the adoption of a new law by introducing criminal provisions as requested by the European Commission, which insisted that criminal provisions be introduced for those entities which do not carry out the tasks and recommendations. I'll just mention one ministry before the law was passed for seven years has not carried out a single warrant or a recommendation of a state audit. You've said this well, it's from our report, so the implementation of the warrants and recommendations that we've checked just 16.4% didn't carry out, and I think it's a very good result, and I'm sure it'll be even better in the future, I'm sure. Thank you very much, very good question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114758	Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114759	Dear Chief State Auditor. My question is this, since you're in 2021. In the year 2021, a report came out and since the HANFA is now being shaken by additional affairs, and the HANFA should be an institution that should carry out an audit of compliance or process within the CNB, do you consider that it may now be time for the state audit to actually take over the work and things in its own hands, given that they have lost control and that they are revising the compliance of these financial instruments trading processes, given that the HANFA as it was meant to do so itself has fallen on that task and there is no other institution in which more citizens can trust that these internal internal control processes in the CNB are primarily functioning?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114760	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114761	Dear Representative Troscott, that the audit of the central monetary institution of the Republic of Croatia HH HNB has been carried out after 21 years under the legal powers that we have, we have done very professionally, our auditors gave orders and recommendations and that is that. As far as we're concerned, we've got the Financial Institutions Review Department, and there's the HANFA we're working on right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114762	My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114763	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Klesic. As you said and saw in the report, we also had a review of 45 political parties. HDZ is one of those who has received unconditional opinion on both financial reporting and business performance and compliance. However, we often hear that we have a link between the donor and your particular subject's audit that comes to the fact that this donor is found very often as a supplier and so on. and you have found that even in seven political parties, however you have not identified irregularities. Tell me, what do you consider the highest risk area when it comes to political party audits?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114764	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114765	Thank you very much for asking. As regards therefore the risk area of political parties, it is certainly donations, i.e. voluntary funds donated and there is, I would say, can be linked to the unethical behaviour of donors. For this reason, we are checking whether the donors of political parties were also suppliers and contractors in the audit entities, e.g. Ministerial and public enterprises and units of local self-government and whether there are irregularities in the public procurement process in which they participated. Yeah, this is exactly what you said, 54 parties, six independent MPs, we did so much last year, we'll try even more. We've done so well, I mean well, we've given good orders and recommendations, and we'll check everything we've done, and we're very successful and thank you for these commendations, as you said at one of the former sessions, because we have 80% of the women's employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114766	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114767	Dear Mr. Klesic, I'm curious to know what criteria you're setting out the priorities of the entities you're monitoring. Do media pressures still affect you please answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114768	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114769	Dear MPs, the question is clear, but the answer is also clear if you have read our law, it is quite clear, the revision therefore, the Law on the State Audit Office is that. 19 determines, it has exactly according to the provisions of the Law, then according to the risk assessment, the financial significance of the subject's audit, the results of the previous audit, so if the entity has received an unfavourable opinion, then we have to go to mandatory and collected information, that's what you said from, meaning on the business of individual entities from the public, so written media, television, sometimes letters that we get, etc., but we're not an institution that does ad hoc. So we plan it, and when we go into the subject, we check it all out in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114770	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114771	Dear State Auditor, first of all, let me thank you for the report, for the presentation, for your work, and then just one simple question, who put the secret mark on your report? Yeah, one thing's with... [[Intruder: You mean Report...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114772	... management, strategic management of goods stocks of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and 2020, so a code of secrecy was placed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of classified documentation. The mark of secrecy can only be removed by whoever put it, the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114773	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114774	Thank you, dear Mr. Clesic. Since the state budget has more than 11 thousand items and is located on over 900 pages, I think you are doing your job well under the circumstances. However, my question concerns the supply of vaccines. So I referred the question to the Minister of Health about the conditions and the prices of the purchase of vaccines, I think that Croatia has ordered much more than it needs, and are calling for joint procurement of so-called In the EU, I am interested, when it comes to the order by which your Office will examine this decision and the conditions, to check the conditions of so-called common procurement because it is difficult to get a response from the Ministry of Health how much money has been spent, under which terms, prices, these contracts are not available, so what are the options your Office will have when it comes to order?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114775	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114776	Dear Representative Bartulica, our Office has a very simple advantage because, they, all the audit entities, are obliged to give us complete documentation on the insight of the state auditors, so they have to give us all the documentation, of course, that we're going to examine all these things that you're talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114777	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114778	Thank you. My question concerns part of the report that speaks of local and regional self-government. Namely, you also found that the audit findings showed that some local units’ budgets were not adopted in accordance with the regulations, then when we talk about property, it was found that certain long-term assets were not recorded in the business books, such as land, business premises and apartments, because no value data was obtained, and then we have problems in the management of municipal infrastructure in local self-government units, my question, and the proposal is actually a question, since you show in numbers, which number of local self-government units has nothing to do, and the identical problems of the 2014 Report and so on, can you draw up a table picture of which will specify exactly which units of local self-government that we know exactly which units are working on, not only have the number of these units listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114779	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114780	Dear Representative Oreskovic, we can do it, of course, but since you could see we can do 70 to 90 financial audits of local self-government units annually. In that part of what we do, we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114781	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114782	Dearly beloved, here I am a very frequent guest in the assembly and there is not a single report to which the opposition reacts this soft, soft, and the reason is simple. So, you're doing a review of political parties and the revision is currently going on and this is actually an absurd situation, they're going to, opposition and ruling, the Parliament is going to give your review opinions, and you're controlling them at the same time. So in the win-win position and here, I say responsibly, not a single report, not a single bill is so supported by both the ruling and the opposition for the simple reason that you hold them in your hands. It's millions and millions of kunas that are being spent, I hope transparently, but, uh, here's how nice it is to listen here to my colleagues from all the political parties, as they finely, as they actually praise you, ultimately. I'm not saying you're doing a bad job, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114783	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114784	Dear Representative Zekanovic. Look, man. 54 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the independence of the State Audit Office. Therefore, our work must be independent, we do what we must do under the law, and of course we must be independent in it, we must be completely removed from the executive authority. And now does anyone take it as fear or joy or something as softly as you say I don't know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114785	And the last replica of fellow Shimičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114786	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Chief State Auditor with Associates, thank you for your report. It is visible both transparently and easily readable. I might compare your business to traffic and officers. So there's more officers on the roads that'll be a better order of traffic. So here and here. Since we have several thousand entities that you oversee in which you conduct revision... [[/Intruder: 12,000.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114787	Don't, when the MP's done, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114788	...and given the number of people who do it as far as you can since you said to make a 771 report or this year. So, given the number of subjects, this takes quite a long time to work, and how what you've audited may be a problem, that is to say, at that same door of the House of DORH or USKOK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114789	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114790	Thank you very much. So we have 15,000 subjects, we had 12,000 subjects three years ago, so that's what our obligations grow every year. 255 authorised state auditors, it is absolutely not possible to do everything, it is clear and therefore perhaps we are resorting to efficiency audits as our colleagues at EU level do where we can then process certain topics in all units of local self-government. That's the only answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114791	I thank the Chief State Auditor, you can sit down now because we're moving on with our work. First, will the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Most and the esteemed colleague of Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114792	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and respected all of you who follow us through the screen and who are with us here at this session. A few topics I'd like to process through this exposure. First of all, I would like to process one of the local self-governments, which is quite disputable and problematic and councillors and the Municipality of Seget also addressed the Ministry of Finance, and here is now the opportunity to state in the Croatian Parliament that in general this municipality does not run the budget according to the law. So the budget as such for 2021 and '22. no time has been or has not been delivered in time, although it has been requested to all council members from that municipality in 15.11.2021, the budget as well as the annual budget, and half-yearly reports have no arguments, it is misspelled and the activities are listed under capital projects, capital projects under activity. And so for years. So here is now that the state magazine is here with us in the Croatian Parliament, so I quote the Municipality of Seget who has not implemented or implemented the budget in accordance with the law for years, and the councilmen have complained and sent this problem to all addresses, so here is our task to also discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. As far as some of this is concerned, I'd like to segregate first of all my salary to the state auditors. And I'm glad he's also the chief state auditor because we touched that on the Committee on Finance and on the Croatian budget. When you have over 7,000 transactions or proposals that the entities should carry out, 255 auditors, and 70 are still missing for full systemization, so someone who's been doing the audit knows that it's a really rough and hard job, and at the end of the day there's no political preference for why no one is going to go mining in a political line in such difficult transactions and we believe that this work should be adequately paid. And then the audit service will be better and it will be one way to fight corruption. Let's say Singapore solved this in such a way that certain bodies of a type of Singaporeian USKOK, DORH and the state audit received extremely high salaries so that they could not be affected by their opinion with bribery and corruption. I'd like to put the same thing in, that's what I said on the Committee on Finance, all those who voted or raised their hand for Mr. Coric to become the Vice Governor of the CNB who is still now under the affairs as he is now and HANFA will not be able to look into the eyes of these people that we've all praised here today. He won't be able to praise it, he won't be able to look at it because when we have the situation that this case is still at the state's attorney's office who didn't answer when we questioned her, when we have a situation where your closest associate accuses you of criminal activity, and you're still rewarded for being a vice governor, and later very likely you're opening the door for governor of the CNB, where that person should then represent us in Frankfurt. Anyone who voted for Mr. Coric on the Committee on Finance can't look him in the eye here. Because if we all agreed here with consensus that people are doing honest and dignified work and they have this one continuity for years and they come here and they say we really need your help as legislators to meet us so that we can do our job even better because at the end of the day they are also revising the CNB that is now under fire and under all these affairs. So whoever made it possible for such a person to come to the vice governor's place can't look them in the eye. As for state support, I can't talk about them, and we've exactly given a case where it's known that in official data that Elektrocenter Friday got money from the state, it's also the subject of state audit and control, he got money from the state, and it's known that this money from the budget was used for bribery and corruption to get jobs then and it's now under investigation. On the other hand, the mysteriously same son of that person gets a contest in, on Banovina for the rebuilding of houses and then you come to these people who are on the verge of more, more people don't know what to make, they don't know which, which treatments to, to drink to get to themselves. The same people who get such business MIPEK and ECP, are always the same owner, remain without a roof over their heads, immersed knaufs, with moisture, with smell, with septic pits that swim around the yard, and until we do so, and that's all about, for the country, is all the money that goes through the purchase, so the competition has to be won, but at the end of the day which is the outcome of that, the outcome is that our people continue to suffer and have no adequate support, and people are also eligible from the budget and the settled competitions etc.. These are concrete examples because we can discuss as much as we want if we don't help our people because that's why we're here, they chose us. And the last point I would like to touch, I purposely pointed out to the CNB and that a review has already been carried out by the state audit because this institution or sorry to be more precise and the institution has lost every credibility, especially now that we are entering the Eurozone, which is an additional shock for the whole state, and the most important financial institutions, if we exclude now the state-owned audit that we all agree on with an unauthorized and against the law, which means that all the decisions they have made in serious problems, are now under investigation, the HANFA which should be the institution that will oversee the financial transactions of the CNB are now trading unauthorized and against the law, which means that all the decisions they have made since 2011, all of our people have been under investigation, so we have no discussion at least, and then we should carry out the audit of these most important two institutions, especially the CNBs, because clearly that the internal control in this financial institution has not been responsible for the financial institutions, and the super-based by the financial institutions, and the financial institutions, and the central institutions, and the central institutions that are not responsible for the financial institutions, and the central institutions, and the funds of the funds of the funds of the central institutions, and the funds of the funds, and the funds of the funds of the HN. So, I think in some way, here's a proposal that a state audit that has such renaissance is still the only one within the financial sector in Croatia, I'm talking about public administration, to review these institutions, because otherwise there will be real chaos in the financial system because no one trusts those institutions anymore. You, when you mention the CNB and the HANFA within the financial sector today, everyone gets chilly, says we don't want to work with them, we don't want to do business with them. Commercial banks have their own policy because at the end of the day, they suck again from Croatia and send it to their queens. However, the only interest, which should actually defend the interests of Croatian citizens, is these two institutions that have fallen to their knees, so here's the proposal, then a state audit, given that it is now working on HANFA's special attention to these transactions where employees have clearly traded in non-traffic transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114793	Thank you. The second debate will be the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, the Honored counterpart Sacic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114794	Thank you, Mr. President, respected chief state auditors, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Here is the traditional here, and we have the opportunity to read several times in this assembly session and get to know the report of the main state auditor, and every time we find that this is extremely correct and transparent reading which the dry data presents in a way, so we would say even the Andragogic and doactically very appropriate, very easy to remember, very easily this is presented to all of us in memory and that we are making our conclusions and views, and they are as we see they are positive and are actually creating the impression that you as an institution of the Republic, the state office for review, are essentially presenting this silent and powerful voice of the Croatian public of thirsty justice, truth and honesty in the supervision of our state budget and our public funds, what we are giving 'at the local level,' given 'on state and what we are enforcing through local communal infrastructure. All of this you have according to our legal bases, rights and authority to oversee. Now he stays, of course there are always questions can we do everything right now? We can see you're limited to your personnel number, but that's it now. Today is not as big a problem as it was a year ago or two years ago. We read that 25 new people you hired, 17 new auditors you actually put into office. It's very good and you're fighting it. What's been a pain since the beginning and today you said these are the wages. And it is truly incomprehensible that someone in the state system, the state administration system, gives state agencies, gives some bodies, a couple of bodies based on local administration or self-government or on state government, has twice as much pay as one of their founding employers. And you as auditors might say that as state attorneys and as criminal judges and as tax collectors, I don't know what this society in that control repressive system is practically ranking some kind of gray, and you're not gray and you can't be gray. Your job isn't the same as an office clerk we won't underestimate from 7 to 3 go home and that's it. Your work is much more than that, much more significant and much more responsible for the Croatian people and all citizens. You have not only earned your condition for many years, with your correct professional work. I'll give you that panigiric because you deserve it. I am rarely able to say that for this House speaker, but also at European, global level, you are recognized and famous. Here you are a member of this EUROSAI organization I see that for the second or third time in a row you have been given to them, meaning the largest audit institutions in Europe the organization has given you so much confidence that you are revising them as much as I have had the opportunity to hear. And yet you are going to this project twinning, that is, education of colleagues from northern Macedonia along with Bulgarians. All this together gives one weight, one meaning that you really are an institution that we can point to with pride, that is exactly how we Croatians, we Croatian citizens, we Croatian people, that such people care about our resources. Now that's the consequence of how much you're finding out what the consequences are that we're going to praise and tell the orderly subjects of you that we've financially audited you're good, you're less good, you're very bad. Now, the Croatian people expect those you find very bad, unconscious, irresponsible, to encourage or hide fraud, corruption should be prosecuted. Here is your procedure, and now your authority is to inform those who need it. Of course, it's not your authority to repress them, but we can see that you've already given that report and more than 35 information to the State's Attorney's office, the police are asking you to do it on your own in 21 cases. That's how it's supposed to be, that both the police and the state's attorney's office, you're a service when you have to, to tell them exactly what your colleague Troscott was saying, that you're making a contribution with those notices, information even though the State's Attorney's Office is reporting everything. That's what my colleague Peric said, that we made it possible for you to be ignored on your 10,000 circulatory orders and requested a yearly deafening. Now you have a chance to report him on a misdemeanor, and that's the same possibility of not ignoring your professional work. Regretts and surprises that out of 45 revised political parties and independent MPs, as many as 35 are not doing so should be done. It's colleagues and colleagues. Let's look in the mirror and say we're a little hypocritical. We ask everyone and everyone to work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and our parties who should take over power either in opposition or should be ruling do not work as they belong. That's why I'd suggest, anyway, and support the suggestions to put those 35 in the annex. Let them see each other. If we have a list of tax payers, frauds who don't pay VAT, employers cheat on workers why wouldn't Croatian people have the right to find out what politicians are asking you to do nicely in the chest into the law, in the Constitution, in values, so let's see God's love, so you're hypocrites. Don't do your job in accordance. So put that list on for the next no restrictions on that. Put in a list and local administrations and self-government and all those who do not respect your orders. I don't know. I don't know. 14 of you said they were deaf. Of those 537 you controlled in the performance audit business, the business of municipal infrastructure 537 more than 350 or more is ok. effective, less effective but 16 zeros, nothing. We want to know who they are, and then we'll tell our voters people you're doing something to change you. It's the only way if they go deaf in the legal order. You also work educationally. Your assignment and preventive importance. You stand for yourself in particular, and you are a member of a task force at this European level for local administration and self-government, you create that standard ethical for ethical treatment. So you're in some way encouraging local administration and self-government to raise standards to prevent crime, fraud, corruption, to create internal control mechanisms, all this expensive contributes to what they would say about the rule of law, and that's good. So here I wish you success and still that these problems with these salaries with our help HS solve, to make that inter-resor group, Minister Maric can't all look at the same level, we're not all at the same level, it's not the meadow in which we should get into the lawn and cut down to be all, no, we're not, some are smarter, some are more responsible, some are doing more work, some are doing better, and it needs to be highlighted and it's the obligation of this ministry and this assembly and we'll be there for you, this one I wish you luck and success in work, lived.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114795	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114796	Thank you. Ah, it's not in that part of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, maybe a fellow Sacic's answer. That list was published, only that what about the public and his colleagues might not have seen, a list of political parties who have their opinions in the State Audit Office report was published, here's only so, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114797	But I see you speak for the SDP's Club of Representatives then you could do it, now you've violated the Rules of Procedure and I have to give you a warning. Let's move on, colleague Brumnic, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114798	Dear President HS, respected state auditors with associates. Looking up at you, I have a feeling you're feeling comfortable here. It's nice to meet you, but you feel very comfortable here because, as we can see, everyone has noticed the job you've done. [[Clip intrusion: Yes]] The only person who doesn't seem to have noticed the job you've done is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because if you list the same problems from year to year, then it would be logical for these problems to be solved. Our key problem, I've talked about it from this pay phone several times is actually a system failure and because when we were on the board I told me that I'm glad that you're one of the institutions of this system that works. When you look at what you've done, not just you, but all of your associates, your colleagues said that you should have bigger salaries, that you should have bigger salaries from simple logic because when I saw that show, the auditor, so I got drunk who's the auditor, and then I met with different kinds of audits later, and then you realize that this audit is actually over something, the one who knows more than the one who did the job, means the one who has to have all the expertise and the ability to unite them, that means that it would be logical and that it's paid according to his work. This revision that you're doing at JLS level, state, JLS-owned companies and the things you've done, I have to admit when you read them, then figure out what's not working in this country, why it doesn't work, and then it's a simple question why it's unsolved. If someone just what you wrote were to spend or fix, I think it would be a bigger reform of this country than all the reforms that have been made so far, it means nothing more than what people who had the knowledge to look at, I first read your report about the City of Zagreb and every time I mention it, it was out there somewhere in 2012.-'13. An extremely interesting reading where everything that happens at that time was written in and why it's happening. What was a question of why after 5, 10 and more years and different ministries and different city offices that had it all had not treated and solved problems, from bridge purifiers, via, city responsibilities, all of which were written there and then, I was then a representative in the assembly and I asked myself a question well all of this writes, why the ministry responsible for something didn't act, why the city office that was written didn't correct and then understand, I say mic by mic that we have a problem with the functioning of our institutions, and then I will now refer to the president of HS who says that he doesn't make any mistakes when he doesn't warn the committee presidents who call the committee during the meeting. His job is to coordinate the body's work in HS. If you came here to audit, if you saw that the agent who gets paid to work here on both the board and the hall, doesn't behave one of those duties, you'd write a note if he hadn't done everything he needed, and he wasn't allowed to do it, here's so clean to get back to this. What's really most interesting to me, in fact, if you were just talking about the report I'd say the report is for 5, let's try to help you with what you asked for and got up and left, but then when you go and read your actual reports done to me is one of the most interesting reports about JLS or JLS infrastructures where it shows that neither JLS nor the state of 30. They haven't solved a problem they're more than aware of. And there's a report that no one mentioned, and you made it, a report on the use or waiting lists for magnets, a magnetic resonance, so it's a report in which it clearly states what problems are in that part of the health system, I don't know the health minister just had to look at it and then in turn call people in charge of that part and ask why it writes this, why it writes this and how we're going to solve it. And we today either wouldn't have waiting lists or the minister would bring some kind of recommendation not to have them. So to say as far as the report itself is concerned, it would be logical to say for a pay phone and everything is great, everything for five needs to be congratulated, keep on doing so, but when you read all those reports that you did in them shows that the jobs done by people in local self-government units in companies owned by local self-government units and in the state simply, I'm not talking about crime, crime is something that I think the police here are trying to do, I'm kind of realizing that you're not the one who needs to punish someone and I'm in that debate the last time we talked about you not being you, it's the State Attorney's Office. But the state's attorney you've set up, the state's attorney's office has an appointment, and I don't understand where the problem is with a colleague on the right. I'm surprised that my colleagues on the right, and I think I said that last time too, I can support this report because this is a country failure report. I think the report is great, that the state audit job is doing as well as I've been doing for the last ten years. I mean, it's a reading you can take, so then you realize what's going on in this society, but when you look at the reaction of those who are in charge of correcting it, there's no reaction for years, and that's the problem. So I'm going to congratulate you once again, I'm going to tell my colleagues on the right-hand side to try and do something like this when you read reports like this and then take some moves. I said here you have a list for a magnet, I don't understand that no one has read it and has done it, you have units of local self-government or infrastructure in those units, some of your colleagues I know that on committees they've mentioned these problems and you're aware that this needs to be solved. Here is your honor, and for those of us who accept this invitation to adopt it, and for those who should do so in a way a request and a desire to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114799	My colleague Brumnić, of course, must answer you, go freely to the place I will now explain everything to you peacefully, not so much because of the MPs because they understand but because of the citizens so that they know. So, on Friday after the end of work, you get a schedule of points we'll be working on next week, after which the board presidents call the board. They do it autonomously, I don't have any authority over them, so I don't know when one of the board presidents will call a committee. So, you within the board can agree, you can ask the board president and say at that time when she called or called the board I have one item on the agenda where you would like to discuss, so please change that time. So don't turn this over to the president of the assembly, but deal with this with the head of your board. That's one thing. Secondly, if you think that I am wrong, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by letter, and then let the committee give a recommendation on how to address this situation where the representative wishes to take part in the debate, and he has a parallel committee on which he cannot attend. You understand, so I think you need to know so there's nothing unclear left, that it turns out the president of the assembly doesn't do his job. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114800	Or a replica, if you can? Then the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then I'll say that that article was re-injured. The 33rd Rules of Procedure. [[President: And you can't replica but..../]] The Honorable President of the Assembly has addressed you in writing for the first time, or twice so far, about this kind of work. I'm aware that it may sometimes happen, but here's the rule that committee sessions are convened during the duration of the assembly, and I think that's something you'd agree with. The 33rd Rules of Procedure should coordinate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114801	Here's the time, so I can only recommend, ask, but it's the board presidents who put in a certain session of the board at a certain time, and I suggest that if members and members of the board are unhappy to tell the president, then he'll change it to the chairman of the board, and then he'll change the time at which the committee's meeting will be held. Although I agree with you that it would be good for committee meetings to be held outside the plenary session time, this should be done on Tuesdays we have already tried, however it did not settle as a custom and a part of the committee president convenes meetings at the time of the meeting. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Juričev Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114802	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Chief State Auditor with Associates. So I must first express my fascination with the exposure of my colleague Brumnic. It is precisely in the presentation and this report shows how many orders and recommendations are respected by the audit entity and what has been done in all these years. So do you know that we've also changed the Budget Law, that we've passed a new State Audit Act and how many amendments and additions and these laws have led to the transparency of all these 15,000 entities that are in control of the State Audit Office. But I'll talk about it more in the presentation, and now we're back. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this report because the work of the office that began in 1994. is extremely successful and highly rated by the quality of work as well as all previous reports. The role of this office is important in preventing and detecting fraud and corruption. Although there is no direct task and powers directly involved in the activities related to the above, it contributes to the preservation and protection of public property against illicit and unacceptable actions. In 2021, it is particularly necessary to highlight 3 audits resulting from pandemics and earthquakes, which relate to government activities and other competent entities. Review of the effectiveness of the management of the strategic stock stocks in 2019 and the '20s, then reviewing the effectiveness of the management of humanitarian aid supplies also for the two years and reviewing the compliance of support for the conservation of jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus. The office, as we have heard, is a radio audit of the efficiency of management of the strategic commodity stocks for 2019 and the '20s, it will certainly be more and more in the afternoons and more detailed, but I would stress here that the creation, financing, use and use, as well as the renewal of supply supplies, the provision of space for their accommodation and storage, and the rights and responsibilities of state and other bodies of supply management, which means that the audit is very detailed. The Office, of course, gave orders and recommendations for identified failures and irregularities because it estimated that management was partially effective. With regard to the revision of support for the conservation of jobs in activities affected by coronary virus for 2020. We can see that from March to the end of 2020 alone, more than 7 billion and 703 million kuna were controlled and spent and spent from the state budget of 4 billion and 868 million and more, and from the European Social Fund 2 billion and 426 million kuna. I stress this because there's a lot of talk about how we got it all out, that it's all European funds and stuff. Support and payment only during this period means from March to the end of that year 2 million and 151 thousand 227 salaries were financed or co-financed, and it is certain that these support contributed to a significantly better picture of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, so we are in '21. had a million and 634 thousand employees, which is as much as 3,000 more than that precovine record 2019. No significant and pervasive irregularities have been identified, or reports have not been shown truthfully, but some irregularities have been identified and the office has given 9 warrants and recommendations. It is extremely important that the State Audit Office gives the entities recommendations and orders to be carried out, however, there are entities which do not carry out the tasks and recommendations, and that is certainly problematic. In 2021, there were 231 recommendations and a non-implementation order, which was about 16% while 8.3% were inapplicable. Every time in the report, I find this insolent when something is inapplicable, then I don't think there's any need to impose it, or ask the subjects if it's a problem, here as the surely opposition will say in the government, I would say in some law or something that isn't logical then it's on all of us here or on the state review, and it doesn't make sense or write because maybe here I'm saying earlier they got 9 warrants and recommendations, what if after that it's not applicable, then there's no point in writing them. If we compare this to 2018 before the adoption of the new State Audit Office Act when we had 342 unimplemented warrants and recommendations, it seems to me that the situation is much better. Here she would now return to what her colleague Brumnic was saying, and it can be agreed that the effect is not satisfactory if the office's recommendations are not implemented by those smaller recommendations, but also the need to improve regulations and integration into future laws, but the recommendations of the State Audit Office are taken into account, and for example, all their recommendations have been incorporated into the new law 2021, the Budget Act. This has resulted in a more regular and transparent contribution to business and budget reporting and budget users, the powers of the Head of Budgetary Users in relation to the availability or determination of non-financial assets, the activities relating to the assembly, adoption and publication of financial plans, etc. The Office has a significant role to play in promoting a culture of good governance, protection against fraud and corruption, although the primary responsibility is, of course, on the entities of the audit, and on the judicial and executive authorities. It is therefore important to point out that the office is working with the state's attorney's office, the MUP and the court. All reports shall be submitted to the State Attorney's Office, but all of the audits carried out, and information on irregularities which may have the characteristics of criminal offences, and if we remember that in the Law on the State Office for Auditing, we have also prescribed sanctions for entities from 20 thousand to 50 thousand kuna and for the legal representative of the entity from 2 to 20 thousand kuna, I think it is sufficient to say with which seriousness each of the entities must access a specific order or recommendation received from that office. Of course, it is also about the revision within the deadlines and manner set out in the implementation plan of the mandate and the recommendations. As I pointed out in the replica, the office also carried out a financial audit of 45 political parties and 6 independent representatives, covering the financial report and the business for 2020. HDZ is one of those parties that has received unconditional opinion on both financial reports and on business coherence. There is always this doubt, and as the main state auditor said, the biggest risk is whether political party donors were also suppliers of audit entities, and whether irregularities were identified in the implementation of public procurement procedures. Although such cases have been seen in 7 political parties because often this speaker is also spoken for and in the media can only hear the connection of HDZ and their donors with certain jobs in certain cities, municipalities or public institutions. However, the audit found that 7 political parties had such links, however, there were no irregularities that would indicate unethical behaviour in selecting suppliers. The office, although responsible for some 15,000 entities due to the earthquake, was also damaged by business buildings, the pandemic affected a number of job leavers, so a change in the organisation of work or the introduction of work from home and despite all these challenges in the work of the office in 2021 was needed. We therefore expect this report, as well as previous reports, to be accepted by MPs without a vote. About the support we have, there's a state office talking and an amount being secured in the state budget. In 2021, 75.8 million kuna was secured while it was '20. either 63 million or the previous one in '19. 4.2 million less. However, I would stress the need to hire more employees, given that 370 jobs have been systematised, and only 305 are now employees and the need to increase wages in order to be of greater interest and to make more applications reported, because, as we have all concluded here as many audits as possible, we will have more quality and transparent work both in this office and in full management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114803	Thank you, too. Now in front of the SDP, Mr. Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Chief State Auditor with Associates, today we have a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021 and this high home during 2021, '22. In fact, 254 audit reports related to 229 financial audits, 21 efficiency audits and 4 compliance audits have been submitted, while another 45 audits are ongoing. And those who are in progress most actually refer to it, refer to the revision of the management of municipal waste. A total of 771 audit entities, i.e. 229 financial audits, 538 performance audit entities and a conformity review for 4 entities, are included in the visible audits. In addition, 6 joint audit reports have also been submitted for users of the state budget of units of local administration, companies owned by local units, political parties, independent representatives, tourist communities and municipal infrastructure management in local self-government units in the area of the Republic of Croatia. When you're looking at only these numbers that we're listening to here today, 15,000 entities that the State Audit Office is controlling are controlling. 15,000. Is it a little bit when you see it like this, is it a little too much for anyone in this society, for us, for our size, for our capacities, for our definition of the state, or for the functioning of the state? And when you see in all these financial audit reports to efficiency audits, most of the obstacles to overall efficiency audits are actually. And that's what we have on the other hand in this tall home that makes such decisions whether this is the kind of structure of the Republic of Croatia with this many units, not just local administrations, tourist communities, municipal companies, with all these 15,000 entities that need, 300 of them to oversee, to turn each account, to turn every paper, etc., etc. to be effective, yes. So what we're putting together here, forming a number, it's not real, we're not real here to set up such an organisational structure that we're going to be better at standard in society, that we're going to be more audits of quality, more efficient. And then when you have on the other hand this system of salaries that we talked about several times and when we talked about the rebalancing of the budget is which are all challenges for Croatia, which are all challenges for Croatia. This is where the state's chief auditor talked about individual agencies that have paid, gross wages probably about 60,000 kuna, and now ask if we're all normal here, right? When citizens listen to whether we're all normal here, people who are under the prime minister, under the president's council, are, a message, what kind of message are we sending? Who's more important than the prime minister, who's more important than the vice president who deals with all this? Tell me who's more important in this society, who make decisions, that have to solve certain problems every day. I won't look back at the CNB, will I? Whoever did this in their report for the first time, the CNB report on their receipts is also very interesting. For 8 members of the HNB's top management, the average wage is a gross salary of 68,000 kuna. The highest salary paid is 72,000 kuna in the CNB. What were their inflation measures? Is there anyone who can think of anything other than to say go shopping where you're cheaper? I think that we all here in society have confused a number of responsible ones from those who should make decisions to live better in society and then all the debates in, when this report comes the state's audit report comes down to some kind of political conjecture whether one of these is registered otherwise, is there any kind of irregularities found, is that supposed to be regulated by the State's Attorney's Office? Well, neither can those in the State's Attorney's Office regulate, nor can the State Audit Office regulate when they have 15,000 supervised entities, which we have 15,000 entities. I don't know if France or any European countries are going to tell them that someone has to do this in a year, about 254 reports have been made here. How many days does he have a year? 365 days. In a year people make 254 reports. I must admit that this is all they are, the pressure that applies and they must do according to the law, that is, what we have brought here in the Parliament as legal solutions for people to do so. And of course I can't do that, of course all these reports that fly to one side, and we're on the other side, it's just that the efficiency of all these reports that are here is being prepared to make us more efficient, to be more efficient. Watch 10,000 recommendations, warrants and recommendations in a year. 10,000 warrants and recommendations, 9714 warrants and recommendations. Most of this concerns efficiency audits. Of which 72% can be effective on such a large number of units, surveillance entities, etc. etc. to this all that, especially when we take the regional coverage of Croatia, knowledge in certain parts of Croatia, the possibility of even coming there, to make some kind of revision. I'm also talking about the pay system here, and of course it's all so nakarad, of course it's all so radical that people can have three times as much pay as prime ministers and that it's a message, that it's a message to society that there are more important people and that they're hidden, more important people than prime ministers. I don't think there's anyone more important, no matter who the Prime Minister is, that he carries most of the burden of responsibility, most of the burden of responsibility for all the problems of covid, of inflation, of any such harmonisation of pensions, etc. etc. And then a message is being sent who's going to be the minister, who's going to be the prime minister? Why would anyone want to be a minister, why would anyone want to be the prime minister of this country when they can go to the agency for 62000 kuna, when they can go to the CNB for 72000 kuna. Why would anyone perform any function, why would anyone come to the State Audit Office, why would anyone come to the State Audit Office when someone in the CNB has 72000 kuna. When the CNB says in their report this way: "In the case of the granting of a salary allowance, on the basis of the comparative value in the arguments, it is not stated on the basis of which criteria a certain amount of salary allowance is set at 20% of the basic salary of the employees. The criteria for one-time payment of cash prizes are not defined. Three and a half million kunas of cash without criteria. Let's move on. Adequate payments paid, reasonable payments. Now you've got one time, so you've got a suitable one, there's a variety of payouts. They were paid on the basis of reasons which did not result in specific tasks of particular interest being carried out by individual employees, i.e. the special interest of the CNB in performing those tasks. Moreover, there are no quantifiable criteria for assessing the performance of operations of particular interest. Four and a half million, 4.7 million kunas are shared cash in the CNB without criteria. That's what the State Audit Office found here as well. And now I'm asking you a question once again who will come to work at the State Audit Office, who will come to work as Minister of Economy. So why would anyone want to be a minister of the economy? Well, taking care of gas, taking care of trade margins, taking care of inflation, taking care of everything. Only every day you're in the media that way being run. The question arises whether any of the doctors have any, constant pressure on doctors. Does any of the doctors in the health care system have this kind of income that save people's lives? Those who have opened the question today of these organ transplants, but the question of people who have saved human lives is whether they can tell this society those who are saving human lives are paid 72000 kuna. Can we once reward them for 4.7 million kunas for saving people's lives? Can we reward these doctors? We can't. And then this is what we're doing here today. and the State Audit Office. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] We'll support that, thank you. I only have one sentence. We'll back it up, but let's ask ourselves again what we're doing here when we pass a number of these laws and give authority to those people who later here the State Audit Office has pointed to a number of illogicalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114805	Thank you. Ms. Dalia Oreskovic, Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114806	I would like to thank the chairman, my fellow MPs and the MPs. First of all, I warmly welcome the representatives of the State Office for Audit and also wish to apologize to them on behalf of the entire Croatian Assembly because during the debate today, there were fewer than 10 parliamentary representatives in the assembly, which means that this report could have been the best in the world or could have been entirely controversial. It turns out it doesn't really matter if we as MPs are not showing enough interest by the number of those who participate in the debate and if in this way we show disrespect for one institution to another. As for the content itself a few years ago, I criticised how the report is relatively dry, but now that there may be a little bit more descriptions and a little more details now of these reports, so I am currently looking at this in a way that reads what is not. Not what's in the report itself, but what's not really in the system itself. And I think that this way you can answer the question of what kind of reform we need. In fact, very often in our public it is said that once wise think tanks have designed the best economic programme, that we will all start living better together and that we will have a better standard of living. Yes, we need such an economic programme, that's good, but first of all we need a political programme, not one political party, but something that reflects the whole of society and all institutions as a relative consensus in which they will be defined, which in the structure, which we urgently need to change, and almost ideal background or at least a good source of information we have in this Report, and I thank you for that. I also want to look back at the part of the criticism that could be heard today from the replicas of individual parliamentary representatives, but we also hear it often in the general public. In fact, the State Audit Office is expected to reveal corruption in the work of state bodies. It's not the primary task of this institution. Namely, corruption can be found by accident, but in fact, the essence of your tasks is to determine whether the public authorities adopted the prescribed acts, if they respect the procedure, so if we stick to some imaginary hodogram and order, then your role is more preventive than your job is really to discover corruption if there is one. I will specifically refer to the section of the Report which speaks about units of local and regional self-government, so I will read a good part of the Report mostly for our public. Namely, the State Audit Office has identified a number of irregularities and failures in the planning and implementation of the budget in accounting and financial operations, in the accounts of income and claims, but also in the revenues of expenditure and liabilities, there are problems in public procurement. In fact, the budgets of some units are not adopted in accordance with the regulations, are not balanced, not even the accounting qualifications are not followed. Furthermore, on the website of the local unit, they do not publish a list of economic operators with which the representative of the contracting entity or its related person is in conflict of interest or indicate that such economic operators do not exist. You can also see the failures in the structure of the Easy Purchase Regulation because they are implemented without respecting the obligation to send calls to a larger number of addresses at all. As for the management of the property, and here and again continuously from year to year, we have the same problems, namely, the State Office for Auditing Nicely repeats that units of local self-government should manage and have the care of a good master, and the basic prerequisite for effective management is the full data on the property. Unfortunately, there is still no such data even though this problem is indicated, it seems to me since 2014. So what is it? Business books do not record any particulars, no data are recorded on long-term assets owned by counties, cities and municipalities, which are land,... assets, business premises, apartments because no value data has been obtained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very often the units themselves don't even know what property they have. For assets that should be owned by a local unit under the law, for example, unclassified roads, land, cemetery, no activity has been taken to resolve property relations. Furthermore, prior to the availability of real estate, i.e. purchase, replacement or sale, no assessment of the authorised court expert or assessor shall be obtained for the purpose of establishing the initial price, but shall not be obtained from different unverified information from different sources. Furthermore, certain business premises and other facilities and apartments are leased, i.e. leased, and that the terms and criteria for the determination of the lease or lease are not determined or the lease is contracted at a lower amount than that prescribed by an internal act. Now, there's corruption, there's its core, and there's its cause, and there's this, the main generator of existence, so if the new government in some cities and municipalities that replaced these old skeletal structures, only in this area would introduce order, it would be a real step forward, and it would really show that the reports of the State Audit Office are heard somewhere and that there are healthy new forces in this society that want to lead this country in a way that, as a result, serves the interests of all Croatian citizens, and then the state as a whole. Also, when we talk about those perhaps more financially small allocations, it is interesting that local units did not prescribe the conditions, criteria and procedures for the award of donations to programme selection associations or projects are not conducted public tenders or are later carried out to control the dedicated spending of funds. Now that's funding you different political structures on black and small. There's that back-up machine that could be useful on election day. There are all those who get something out of the budget, and in return give votes when the structure that shares something intransparent is needed. Furthermore, one part of the Report is dedicated to the management of municipal infrastructure, and there also, the State Audit Office indicates that units of local self-government are obliged to organise optimal public needs. However, it has been found that units of local self-government do not have full data on their municipal infrastructure, they are not at all considering how to improve the governance of the municipal structure, nor have they established effective supervision. The report itself lists the number of local units where such irregularities are identified. What is the finding of the revision in relation to the units of local self-government, which is contained on page 125, I believe it can be of quality, if not the most quality programme for local sources in 2025, but it would be useful and here, I will ask for it as a representative, to see if I can look for committees based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, if I do not seek it as a citizen on the basis of the right to access information, and that is exactly what JLS therefore means by the name of the cities, which are municipalities for which it has since 2014. found that they had or did not act on something, so let's see how through all these years the same structure in certain cities and municipalities behave in a non-transparent and corrupt way, I think this is exactly the information that our citizens should and should know because in any case they have the right to do so. And now that I'm saying that what's contained on page 125 is a programme for local elections in 2025, I'm going to read exactly what that means. The establishment of a record of the entire municipal infrastructure for those who have not done so so far, in such a way that such a record contains all the information prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy. Then making decisions on declaring the municipal infrastructure by public good in general use, obtaining all geodetic elaborates of the derived state of municipal infrastructure, and delivering them to the competent court and competent authority for the cadastrian purpose of enrolling and municipal infrastructure in land books and recording in the catastro as a public good in general use of inalienable property, it is a shame that we haven't solved all this together yet, but we don't, and generally our local officials don't even receive such topics because they don't sound good, they're not necessarily potent, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114807	You, too. We are now moving on to individual debates, the first is Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114808	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, distinguished state auditors with associates. Here's something I want to say about the finding, the overall finding of the revision, because on the agenda of the assembly we have individual ones, so we can about create a picture of what's going on with us, whether we're doing something through that system, whether we're doing something wrong, whether the government, whether local self-government, regional and all other entities are doing their job in accordance with the law or whether there are certain problems. Looking from year to year, I think that we can see better and better that after the audit results, there is an improvement in certain activities from local to national level, and indeed there is perhaps the most important role of the revision itself to see and to recommend or order what needs to be removed in order to be in line with what they are, as we call the law. I think when we look at a total system of 305 employees and 15 thousand entities that could be monitored, it's clear that in one year it's impossible to control all of this because it's not easy to perform and there's a methodology and I think there are groundless questions why some local self-government is on the agenda, let alone, why some are now, why some will be in 2.g. etc., I think that, here's the auditor himself said when we were at local self-government right in the part of the municipal infrastructure we were monitoring the entire system to see how effectively they had communal infrastructure. When we look at the number of orders given, there is indeed a large number of orders and recommendations, and it is clear that there are some 10 to 20 percent of what is not done and that is what needs to be insisted in the times ahead that and what has not been carried out in accordance with what the revision writes. I'm going to look back here a little bit since we don't have a lot of time on local self-government, I think we also have political parties because we have our own messiahs here every day telling us about corruption and transparency. Now, we're going to do a little bit of this stop because, in this particular review report, there's this one party called the Name and Last Name Party, which is the party that got a conditional opinion in its supervision, of the 8 observed areas in 4 is very bad, and that's the most important, financial report, income, expenditure and accounting plan, so that we here every day we have to clear up the situation because it's a party that's legal, which exists, but that's connected with the other party, now, look at that, so the party that merged with the other party that's called the Center and then we have its political action, we have our own accounting because it's one agent i.e. One MP here in the assembly when she became a representative has declared herself a member of that party and now let's look at that transparency and mode of operation, and whether corruption is, I don't know, but the state's funds are being used, to say that the party no longer exists because it has merged with someone else, but it still functions legally and submits reports, and these reports are bad, bad, so that you would be telling HDZ that we are all bad, and they are all good, so that the audit finds are immediately cleared up and it's good to see it, it can be seen. And if we don't talk about another party doing the same thing, the Homeland Movement, so when we remember what it was in 2021, so the audit finds out the same thing, finds out, there's no mistake, what happened, look at the report no, where there's an irregularity occurred and today you hear that all those who got unconditional opinions don't work out, only those who have parole and not to say worse ones who have unfavourable ones, that's what this is about, and I don't talk about DIP reports after the elections, and that's one topic that would be allowed to talk a little bit here, but I don't have too much time. As far as local self-government is concerned, I support these activities especially in the part of the control of the municipal infrastructure and the effectiveness of the implementation of the Law on the municipal economy, I am a participant and I know what is required, there are still ways to do it, there are decisions to be made because every local self-government rests on the communal infrastructure, and in this segment is the greatest value of every adjective, and there is room for great progress, and I think that these finds where only two unfavourable finds are from a large number of finds, and this again in municipalities not which unfortunately in all segments of observation were bad, it is for them to correct, and of course everything that the audit is written and here is sent to the DORH and to their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114809	Thank you, you'll get a chance now because you have a lot of replicas. Mr. Simic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114810	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, we see that the Office of State Audit has clear goals, a clear vision, clear tasks each year. We see that we can commend the work of a complete institution or office as an institution, that we can also praise the structure of employees. We see that there is a large share of highly educated employees, that they have very little administrative burden in terms of administrative workers, that they have a high share of women employees in the office, and also we have worked in institutions or local self-government that were subject to a state audit, we can testify that this is a highly professional way of working, very thorough and that here we want a lot of success in the work. As little successful cooperation as possible with the State's Attorney's Office, but all in order to prevent some unwanted actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114811	Thank you very much, fellow Shimic. So I think that today we all here have claimed from all the clubs that wanted to discuss that as far as the audit office is concerned, we have one unique situation when we look at all the other institutions of this country all praise the Office of Audit. When the DORH comes, it's a war here, when the court comes, a report by the Supreme Judge, any other reports, any other institution war. Now why is that? We can think of it in particular, but I don't want to believe it's because the revision can come to anyone, and I don't think that's the way to look at it. Indeed, what we get individually in all segments, and then the overall reports clearly show that this is a very high-quality work of people who have been at it for years, who have received one level, I will say it in confidence and stability and who are certainly doing the job as they are expected each year, and I think that there is at least room there that we can express doubt whether it is how they wrote or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114812	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114813	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague, therefore, is the role of a state audit to detect and prevent illegal spending of state money. What I'd like to share here with you is perception. We unfortunately had a perception in Croatia that is bad and we are not well in the mood for local leaders. However, from my experience, I was some, some head of some institution I know and most people do excellent and quality work, and because of a few, they all put themselves on a pillar of shame. I say most of them do their job well and responsibly, and that maybe we should praise those people more, and also those who have committed crimes do everything to stop doing that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114814	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114815	Thank you very much. I think that every head of local self-government that it was or which it is quite respectable means the moment when your review announces that it will come, everything there means within every local self-government, everything is available, every document must be given and I think we have this one normal act. I have to state one case here that we have, say, when the DORH is looking for certain papers or situations, then there are leaders who don't give and we're praying about it and we're wondering why it's happening. So trust in what they write is maximum in me and that it is maximum correct because they are clear methods and clear areas that are being observed and it is clear how opinions are obtained, whether something is unconditional, conditional or unfavourable. If you're really bad at everything, we see that three local self-governments are actually 2, they have a problem, they have to fix what they're told. Doesn't mean everyone's right away, but if there's something wrong, there's something that they have to do. I'll take care of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114816	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114817	Dear fellow Boric, here are some things you've noticed, and I've already spoken of in the replica. So whenever any report, any institution comes here to the Croatian Parliament, then it makes sense that by ruling it they support it, and logically, the opposition attacks it. However, today, not only today, but also last report and passed here is an extremely abstentioned opposition. She's very restrained enough I'd say soft is acting on the report, I don't think the audit is doing anything wrong even though I'm independent, I'm not under your supervision, but this is very interesting. I would just advise you to step up a little bit, no matter how they don't attack you, strengthen a little inspection because this mildness and this boasting almost report by the opposition would slightly smell.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114818	And you need to answer? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114819	Well, you could say that this is part of the deal. I really don't, I never want to doubt what I'm not bored with, I won't now, but it gave me time to think when every institution comes here, and that's what we who are here testify to, that's war. Except for this. Why? Because this is an X-ray for everyone. So we can all look at them. Now, if they're aware of their own mistakes as some are, so they're not talking about their own, they're talking about other people's, we can understand that, but that doesn't mean that what it says here isn't like this. And that's why I think the review will still do its job, of course. It is evident that the largest part of all of our institutions that have been observed from 229, 226 are conditional or unconditional opinions and I think it shows that the state is slightly still coming into the same order that we need from local to state level and that it takes time and time, but of course every leader, for example, local self-government has his own ways of conduct and mode of work. We can't say that we're all perfect, but that orders aren't respected or recommendations are that Then troublesome. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114820	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114821	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Boric, and here as head of the unit of local self-government for some 13 years we have had a few supervisions and audits, etc., and to tell you the truth I have always experienced it and employees of the department, of the general department, of the management department as in some way a sort of self-help because no matter how many employees are educated, no matter how hard we try, etc., there is always a possibility somewhere to make a mistake, of doing something wrong. And indeed the reports were good, they were sometimes conditional, but they were all removed together, and really, I say I take the opportunity to thank and thank them, because it's really one big help to local self-government units that often I say and don't arrive, I can't follow all the changes, maybe adapt, etc. And then, if people are aware of such reports, indeed, they are very helpful to these units of local self - government. So here's why I'm taking this opportunity to commend the Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114822	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114823	I think we've said everything about it more or less. But if you can get help for free, to be told by someone on the side, you may have done something here that is not in line with what is written in the law or some own decision that you've made to fix it, I don't think anyone has anything to say about it. That fear of review should be removed from itself as should be removed and these stories here in the assembly that go after it, yeah, it was an audit, I'm all unconditional, I didn't do anything wrong now I can hit on my own, so some other body can't do anything to me. Or someone was, so it's conditional, so now they're a little afraid of all the other bodies, presses that can do something to you. I think that these stories, the threats to review or the DORH or any of the things that we experience here every day should be removed from people who deal exclusively with in some way observing what we find in any institution at local, state, regional level and give some advice to fix it or keep it the same because it's all lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114824	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114825	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. You also mentioned what the State Audit in the last year actually did to audit the management of municipal infrastructure in local self-government units. That's when you look at what business it is. If only they'd done it in one year, it's already huge. Since the audit itself covers 911660 municipal infrastructure facilities, we know that both roads and waterways and vehicles and parking lots are also. Therefore, only in this segment are nearly 7,000 warrants and recommendations given 6981. It means an average of 13 recommendations per municipality, or city. So here's the only evidence that's a huge and quality job done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114826	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114827	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. So I'm telling me who we were local leaders or were, we know what that means. So we had the Law on the Communal Economy which was let's say through the law and through its articles generalized, but ordered certain situations we didn't have. Record all communal infrastructures. It was all there, but we finally get a little bit to know what we have, what we build, what it costs a year. Because leaders often build not 50 new pillars of public lighting, 70, 30, 20. No one sees how many there are in total. I don't know how many miles of unclassified roads we've arranged or done something else when we're talking about municipal infrastructure, and it's okay to record it and to know what we're managing, because it's ours on every local self-government. And I think there, here's Mr. Auditor's statement clearly, that's where we've been monitoring everyone. If we're not in financial documents, etc. Could be 50 municipalities we are or so many cities, here we have watched you all that you do And we just give you references and orders to do what. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114828	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114829	I thank the president. Therefore, the State Audit Office as well as the State Election Commission are two institutions that do their job well in those areas of competence they have. I support every surveillance, support and remedy of all irregularities, and as far as the recommendations are concerned, I am grateful to them. In any case, it will help in further work, facilitate further work, and thank you to your colleague, Boric, for the advertisement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114831	And bad advertising is advertising, we know that. But I just wanted to warn you that those who threaten to clean us up here every day, that we will be replaced, that we are this corrupt or that we are not transparent in our own backyard have a problem and that citizens must know. There are abilities. If it's you, some of your associates, that's your problem, but that you're going to impose it on us every day, the audit determines you. So not me as a politician, not anyone else, but an official body, the state responsible for this tells you that in the eight areas monitored, the four most important were bad at small financial amounts. Now, what else was going on here? Well, that might be interesting to find out, but we're not gonna deal with it. Just so you know, we're seeing everything and the days aren't going to tell anyone here that you're like this, and our finding is an unconditional, unconditional Croatian democratic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114832	Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114833	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'd just like to pick up my colleague, Boric, where you left off. Those who receive an unconditional opinion on both financial reporting and business coherence shall respect those who have received a conditional opinion from a number of areas. However, what I find interesting today after all the clubs I have not heard from any party that in their case, their party found that donors were also suppliers or contractors. And the audit found in 2021 that there were seven such parties. It has been established that voluntary contributions have been paid to a regular account, no certificates have been issued, no signed statements have been attached. No contracts have been signed for voluntary contributions above 5000 kuna. This has not been reported to the Office and the State Election Commission, etc. So here's your interpretation of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114834	So, colleagues of Juričev are located in a place that they would worship others, but they find that their donors are also suppliers, that they do services for them. And tomorrow they're offering to lead this country, and they're still threatening everyone. Everyone's trying to diphrase them, especially us on this side. Look at their findings, I say in detail if I don't talk about the findings of the State Election Commission where we go to every account, every cafe and any supplier. Well, look at what happened after the last local elections, and I won't even list those parties, and they're giving us a lesson. Our reports are from both the DIP and the revisions unconditionally believe that we have done what needs to be done under the law and that we will differ from them, and they will continue with their tirads here, but now many know that there is a mess in their backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114835	- Mrs. Crescent. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Boris, that's interesting, such a small stranger, so when you find something in their backyard that's wrong, and today's rhetoric of these little strangers is much more moderate than it usually is, so it's just as interesting, but I wanted to ask you something else. You've been in charge of local self-government for a long time, and I'm sure you've been audited, inspection, too, so how did you actually experience this, here, inspection or that surveillance as an aid or as a criticism?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114837	How did you experience Mr. Boric?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114838	How did we experience it? I've already said, so free advice, free legal aid that what you may not have done is to comply with your decisions and with the law and observe during some time when we determine you have your time, and there is a revision of yours, so we'll see what you've been doing in some years when you've got to do it. This afternoon we're going to discuss the goods supply, we've already seen the introductions, so when we see what actually happened, so we'll see that it doesn't stand what they say no to us, we know how much of the recommendation, we know how much of the order, when the deadlines are, etc., so we'll discuss it on their request, but I just wanted to say who's going to see it as a different challenge than what I said then has a problem with what you did there because I think that when someone tells you this decision might be good, but you didn't do it according to it, maybe you made a mistake in one procedure, go ahead and fix it, you've got a deadline, and all right, in the next surveillance it says done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114839	Thank you very much. And now he's standing ready, Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114840	That's right, thank you. Dear Representative Boric, you, as usual, are hitting the argument and frontal, but here we have on page 92 and 99 and 100 just those political parties' reports, because you said nicely X-ray this and I absolutely agree with, with your view in this regard, that we should do everything ourselves first to be harmonised, and then ask others to comply. Now what wasn't mine, where I had an intervention on those reports that those who got conditional opinions that it should further not just be like this as stated on the page harmonised... I don't know if it would take a lot of energy for them, but to put under some bases where it's concretely inconsistencies with business, statute, law, here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114841	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114842	So here's our colleague you had a chance to hear if you were listening only to segments of something mean if your donor and supplier are clear that you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing in accordance with the law, but if you're doing it and telling others that you're bad, then there's a problem and we're talking about it, there's political struggle here, and we have to have a certain argument here, but ignore it and go out for your own discussion and don't mention it, and that's what we're talking about, so we're going to talk here argumentised and true what it is because in that relationship that I noticed that if you're a party agent with the name and last name that's in the assembly, if you've announced that this party has been connected with some other party called Center, if you're still a representative in HS, and the political party is registered, so I ask who joined it, how it can be performed, how there is transparent, how there is, how much there's some things that we'll be, what we'd be, what we'd be, if we'd like, if we're going to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114843	Thank you, thank you, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114844	Dear Representative Boris, there were words in the report, there were today words here and in the debate on the CNB and on a whole series of other state institutions and state-owned companies where governors, presidents and board members, directors have extremely large, large incomes, and even several times bigger than the Prime Minister or, for example, the Minister of Economy himself, and on some vague basis pay bonuses in some millions of amounts, so I am interested in your position and do you think that this system really needs to be audited since it is about state companies, state institutions and ultimately state money?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114845	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114846	My position, so we want our agencies to be independent, I appreciate that, means especially some that are very important for the functioning of certain segments of this society. Is it good that this director of the agency has a higher salary than the prime minister or president of the assembly and the president of the state personally I don't think it's in line with some of our perceptions about what's important, who's doing what the job and the complexity of the job I can affect, I can't know, but that something worse, I won't compare the CNB, it's a banking system, and something out there is different to me from this part where we work, we talk about the state and state institutions, and I think the revision said something, and what they need to be interested in is how we get through the law that they still have more employees. to motivate them to have more employees, only through a pay system or a pay change or what the state needs to do, and then we can observe everyone else because these stories can cause certain reactions in the public, and in the end I say again everyone has their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114847	Time, thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Caroline Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114848	Ladies and gentlemen, this report should be commended, but unfortunately only in the section relating to the form of drawing up this report because it is truly high-qualityly structured which proves that in Croatia we have people who know how to do our job quality, but people who know how to do business in Croatia are not in the leading positions because as it is known in today's Croatian knowledge and similarity do not go together. This report, with quality form in substance, is completely unsatisfactory, it does not provide information on the quality of spending of Croatian taxpayers' money, it does not talk about the rationality of the spending of tax funds, nor about the management of Croatian citizens' assets. This report is, in a substantive sense, a statistical review without information that would have to be contained by European standards. I'll give you an example from a few months ago. Germany's State Audit reported on the adverse procurement of protection masks by the Ministry of Health and on the basis of this State Audit report, there were arrests of various entrepreneurs and politicians because criminal elements were established. The German State Audit also criticised the Ministry of Defence's acquisition as well as the cost of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the renewable energy sector, saying that the ministry did not clearly specify what objectives these projects should achieve. So, the State Audit is in our country the institutions of Croatian citizens who, through the Croatian Parliament, need to give the Croatian taxpayers a report on how their money is spent. As in the present case of the German Parliament, you are obliged to specify precisely irregularities or irrationalities at your disposal by public means. While all international institutions are attesting to high corruption in this report, there is no information in which, for example, the ministries obtained goods and services. And the case of former Minister Žalac has shown us that for software worth 2.9 million kuna, the ministry pays 13 million kuna. So you steal 300 percent. And the State Review in its report follows the way other state bodies operate, and it is to satisfy the form and protect the powerful. Because we can read that there is an analysis of the spending of money on smaller municipalities and smaller towns, but the Zagreb Holding, Croatian Water, HEP or Croatian Forest audits did not enter. In public, for example, there was a case of action by the State Agency CERP in which there were a number of irregularities. Why wasn't there an audit in that agency? We have an incredible case in that CERRP. As the successor of the Privatisation Fund for more than 15 years each year, the CERP extended the term of implementation of a company that was then owned by the former Hypo Alpe Adria Bank, and the company was later taken over by a group around the former owner of the Jutarnji list of Ninoslav Pavic. It is an attractive location in Poreč in which, according to the model of the public-private partnership, the buyer was to invest hundreds of millions of kunas. The buyer got the property, and the CERP didn't even get the kuna. A CERRP auditor, Nada Ruzic, who discovered that the damage had been done to the 104m kuna taxpayers has been fired. In this CERRP, which damages Croatian taxpayers against market conditions, a certain lawyer, Klobučar, was hired by a personal friend, Andrej Plenkovic. The accounts that CERRP pays to Plenkovic's friend are extremely high and they should be public, but despite my parliamentary issues, account height is hidden from the public. But as it is known, compliance with the law in Croatia is reserved for ordinary citizens, and for the powers of the law do not apply. And for this very reason, there is injustice, corruption and poverty in Croatia. You from the State Audit are paid by Croatian citizens to disclose and inform the Croatian Assembly in detail with concrete figures and officials who are responsible for a certain failure as your colleagues from Germany do. Yet you have not done so, but you have sent us tables from which nothing can be read that is necessary to make concrete decisions. The state review of the Constitution is defined as an independent institution, and if we look at constitutional or legal solutions, no one can pressure you. Unfortunately, you have sent us a useless report and failed to perform your legal role, but you have as well as other blocked institutions such as the DORH, the Tax Administration, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering completely failed and betrayed your citizens who are paying you. I am therefore against this report because we must no longer rest in Croatia that institutions that pay Croatian citizens do not do their job by protecting the powerful and harming Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114849	You have two replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114850	Dear colleagues Vidović-Kristo, apart from these larger examples we discussed in the parliamentary debates, we also have examples at the local level of the State Audit on the one hand and the HDZ's activities on the other. I'm going to give you one specific example, so I'm interested in what you think about the epilogue of such situations or not just enough to do the State Audit in terms of cancelling, but to ask us whether there are any negative or conditional reports of the State Audit. Let's say the State Audit recently issued a number of conditional opinions on the local units' budgets in Croatia, and some are assessed and completely negative. What is pointed out here is in the municipality of Kloštar Podravski among the observations of the auditors is a special chapter dedicated to staff expenditures and there is a disputed payment of the award to Mayor Tihomir Jandrokovic of HDZ, while the chief believes it is all right. It's the same from HDZ. And what are the consequences of that when the State Audit says no, and HDZ says yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114851	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114852	Thank you very much for asking my esteemed colleague, Selak Rasudic. So, the consequences are nothing for the simple reason that key institutions in the state are blocked, and I'm primarily talking about the judiciary, and in the judiciary I'm talking about DORH in particular. I cited an example from Germany where, based on the State Audit report, the state's attorney is acting and the actors are arrested and processed, while Prime Minister Plenkovic's report calls us a state lawyer and we don't have an independent judiciary. While DORH is completely blocked, where you in Croatia today can answer to justice for the worst crimes, and worst criminals can be released we will not solve today's situation called systematic poverty of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114853	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114854	Dear colleagues, Kristo, you are a little unfair, I must confess to my colleagues from the State Audit. You state here their report, I'm in my debate I said here we're discussing a report, and below that there are a hundred other reports showing all of this as you point out. And it's not their task, it's today that the HDZ colleagues have tried to explain again several times, it's the DORH's task, and that's what the State's Attorney's office is, as I said in my debate at the Halo Prime Minister, so let the prime minister pick up the phone and ask DORH to do only what's listed in the recommendations, I guarantee you that this country will look twice as good. They did their job, only after that they didn't follow the work of others who should do it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114855	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114856	Thank you, dear colleague Brumnic. No, I don't think I'm unfair when I say it the way I just said it in my presentation, and I'll tell you why. I cited deliberate examples from the EU. So the state audit is paid by Croatian citizens and the duty of every state audit is to monitor the spending of taxpayers' funds. The fact that laws in this respect are tailored according to the will and desire of HDZ, SDP and their flocks is one pair of sleeves, and the other pair of sleeves, which is not unfair because I said exactly the lack in this report of those data concerning, as the people like to say, the big fish. So exactly, you're right that the DORH is completely blocked, that it does not do its job either under the Constitution or by law, but we also have to today at the agenda point that we here in the Parliament today point out that even the state audit has not carried out its task.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114857	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114858	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honoring the state auditor with his associates. Here I thank my colleague Brumnic precisely for explaining to his colleague that this is the State Audit Office Report for this period that preceded, so in 2021, all the reports that this Office has been doing all year. So if a colleague had read all the reports relating to local self-government units, to the review of the efficiency of municipal enterprises, to, for the tourist communities, if she had read all the report concerning the state budget, the CNB and so on, then she would have found exactly those elements that the State Audit Office had listed inside and at the end of the day, all those reports and all that he found incorrectly delivered to the DORH. Therefore, when looking at this overall summary here, then we have to say that a very large coverage is made and that it is very important that this report is also indicated in these individual segments where and how it was done, how many conditional, how many unconditional opinions, are some unfavourable, etc. When we look at only for the past year, there are 70 local units, of which 17 cities and 53 municipalities, for which it has been issued for example. 25 unconditional, 42 conditional and 3 unfavourable opinions. On compliance, this relates to financial reports. For local units, there were 26 unconditional, 42 conditional and 2 unfavourable. What I would like to point out is that what we have said many times, in 2019, when the Law on State Audit was amended, was just given the possibility and penalties in one way, precisely those who did not implement certain recommendations and those who did not do so within the time limit, which is very important and then again warned the DORH for not implementing certain recommendations and orders. I would point out another with you looking at the Annual report on the implementation of the state budget where it is quite comprehensive, where all the ministries and business of the state are covered, starting with support, budget spending, etc., then you can imagine what the job is. The financial audit of 40 tourist communities for 2019 was also listed here, where here I am, because the tourist communities don't have so many purchases, they don't have so many big jobs, what concerns me, out of 40 tourist communities, most of them have conditional opinions and I don't think that's good, that there's only 11 unconditional and 29 conditional opinions. I would therefore like to warn here that, even in this segment, when we look at and do not release anyone from responsibility, both the state budget, local, etc., but also the tourist communities that have covered the total revenues of their 642 million kuna, so that they have had worse or more conditional than unconditional opinions, and here, I think we should work very hard to improve their opinions or find the State Office for Auditing, both on business coherence and on financial reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114859	Thank you. You have a series of replicas, even of those who didn't even listen to what you said. Mr. Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114860	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterparts Peric, well, in this report a series of findings of state audits concerning entities and state, state-level, state-level, local self-government levels were presented, you mentioned companies, institutions, municipal enterprises, tourist communities, however, here is what has already been mentioned, and today the findings of the state audit related to the work and operation and business of political parties have been made. It is very interesting to see that the share of unconditional opinions is in this report, and this is something that is interesting to our public as well that it is a negative perception of the actions and work of political parties, at least in this section, which oversees the Office of State Audits differently except here in some political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114861	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114862	Thank you very much for mentioning this to my colleague, Boric. And it is very important that here are the very large parties, and among other things our party has already thought since 2016 unconditional opinion and coherence and financial reports. So the big parties are very concerned about it, and I can point out and commend my HDZ party, although it is exactly how you say public perception is different. We can be very pleased that a series of irregularities have improved and that in fact there has been unconditionality in the last few years for 5-6 years in all aspects, and that should be done, and in relation to the small parties exactly which we have many times held here, they teach us how to behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114863	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114864	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric here you have heard, and I think you have also commented on this MP before you who had no place in any of the 168 founding parties, and now she has created one 169 Decision and Justice. It is mainly reading every day of certain criminal persecutions that should be carried out in this country in order to be according to her will. So we heard about the review of a lot of negative thoughts, first of all commendation, so they're all blocked, so they're doing a good job, but they don't write what they need and we do it every day. Indeed, whether this material is written in a summary of what you said about not reading individual reports that are also on the agenda and we haven't discussed them, whether really taking into account such politicians whose only task is to pollute everyone, pollute everyone to make them look good. Or we will deal with serious business as the review does, as a party, as responsible people and continue our work as we should to work on the benefit of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114865	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114866	Thank you very much, so you and those people just in the absence of their own likely quality or competence then call everyone and everyone. In everything they find bad instead of turning exactly to the fact that they read among other things then individual reports about, although they are very available on the website, on the website of the State Audit Office you can find everything. Therefore, it is only necessary to take time, to read it, and then you will see that it is all mentioned from individual failures, measures made, recommendations, failures, details in public procurement are described in a particular contract, etc., so everything can be found if it wants to be well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114867	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114868	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here we all agree that the state audit is doing a comprehensive and quality job and that what they do is a guideline to local leaders as well. My question to you is, are these people well paid, do these people have a team and a sufficient number of people for the work we do? Compared to others, we have a president of the state and prime minister who is not even among the 100 most paid people in the Croatian state. So, is it time for us to finally make the coefficients and be the first prime minister or president of the state, the second prime minister, and then the rest of the people. Because it can't happen that someone in a state firm has 50 or 60,000 kunas, and here we see these people who, who actually work they a day. write a dozen, a dozen opinions, which is terrible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114869	It can't happen, not that it can't. You can, you can, but you can't. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114870	Thank you very much. Thank you very much fellow, I personally think that these people are not paid enough and that you should certainly do quite well, scan this entire ranking list and introduce quite a order in it. And also value systems what you said to the Prime Minister, ministers, etc., it certainly is not right that there are such differences between certain companies that are apropo owned by state. So these people respond in the end line and create preconditions for these very executives, directors, to do quality business, and on the other hand these leaders, namely the Prime Minister and Ministers, are underpaid to those same people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114871	Thank you. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114872	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, here I would actually teach what my colleague Boric said, here I feel that there is a certain misunderstanding of actually jurisdiction, starting with the State Audit Office, so let's say the DORH. So what you said yourself if you read the report is definitely structured completely clearly. Obviously, it is not understood that this is actually a summary of hundreds and hundreds of reports that are actually talking about each individual subject that is subject to review. So from units of local, regional self-government, tourist communities, agencies, political parties, etc., etc. And as for the DORH and their jurisdiction, each report will, therefore, come ultimately to the DORH and the DORH is to decide whether there are any reasonable doubts about whether there is a launch or investigation or some pre-examination or reconnaissance, and these steps that come from this side especially from this colleague who has spoken before you, we can actually attribute that it is a kind of pressure on the judiciary and that it is precisely on that side that the pressure on the judiciary is actually coming, and that this is the object of misunderstanding or simply a lack of understanding or the use of this to make a kind of political stage that citizens will judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114873	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114874	Thank you very much. Right, yeah, someone's just using it to flash at the moment, but basically no, it's nothing. What each of us was in JLS, any institution, etc. I personally know that behind every report that comes to our attention or after it makes a state office to review its work behind it, this report parallelly goes to the DORH, if anything has been discovered or proved to be wrong, that it is not a procedure, that it is not a contract, that there is something wrong with public procurement, then people who are competent to verify and determine the facts and then either remove that suspicion and this or that someone is ultimately processing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114875	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114876	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Peric, you, as well as many colleagues, spoke about the orders and recommendations contained in these audit findings, but what you mentioned, I would like to underline once again, it is the new State Audit Office Act of 2019, which is exactly what we have prescribed and introduced a penalty for not acting on orders and recommendations given by the office in its reports, even if it is not followed by the deadlines set. In addition, the audit report shall be submitted to the competent authorities, from the State Attorney's Office, the MUP and the courts. We have prescribed fines from 20 to 50 thousand kuna for the audit entities, for the responsible person from 2, from 2 to 20 thousand kuna, etc. Therefore, it should be said that, thanks to earlier recommendations and findings, one such law has been passed and these orders and recommendations are being followed and punished or sanctioned... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114877	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114878	Thank you very much. Yes, it is very important and it is necessary to point out that in 2019 the State Office Act has just been amended, where exactly these infringements are included and where there will be much more effects, and in this year's application, two years ago, that, indeed, it is much more to be kept in mind that the deadlines of those who, at the end of the day, are those that, both the unit and the leader and the manager themselves, state in which time, can respect a particular recommendation and the order. Therefore, everyone must keep an eye on, on what he is doing, and correct exactly those mistakes and be in the end line sanctioned if he does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114879	- Mrs. Crescent. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 305 people to 15 thousand who spend public funds are really small and the state auditor himself said in his opening speech that it is actually one challenge he faces. We've been here a little while and we've been discussing the salaries both of this and that. Do you have any idea if we as Parliamentarians can help the state audit office to sort of fix that situation and actually have people normally evaluated in the way that they really should, given the work they're doing, and when we look at this report, I don't know who would have something to object to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114881	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114882	In fact, we have our responsibility, and here I am as the Committee on Finance and the State Budget that I am directly in charge here and I am getting through the board, and I have one way to help the state audit office and the adoption of the financial plan and the modification of the plan, and also here in this direction and in order to change the coefficients and systems of values, so it is our duty and the assembly to evaluate both the individual committee and myself as competent to really give a recommendation then where these systems are being established, that we recommend it and then verify and respect it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114883	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114884	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, it is an impression that it is only the State Audit Office that would in some ways prevent certain things that should not happen in local self-governments, ministries, all public, public bodies. I'd say the government of the Republic of Croatia has been in the last 2 years. A lot of its legal provisions and through the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Electronic Media and a series of laws essentially put in place certain mechanisms that will prevent what everyone here likes to talk about, and that is that local sheriffs who, of course, want to alienate public money and I think it is necessary to send a strong message that there is no untouchable, it always turns out that those others who attack, first of all HDZ, when we look at their audit reports are not even close to those given to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114885	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114886	Thank you very much. So I would still mention here in the surveillance state audit office notes that some of the provisions are not quality in the law defined etc. Because in the work itself, it is established and revealed. The Budget Act, which was adopted, has just recognised and respected all these remarks that the State Audit Office has discovered, along with the fact that normal and the Ministry of Finance are in line with their own needs, in accordance with and with EU provisions, so that this Budget Law gives a more quality framework, so that the leaders of the local and regional self-government units can work in a more high quality legal framework and that these shortcomings will be less than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114887	Thank you. Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114888	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Peric. The fact that we have a large number of entities that are audited on a number of grounds, and also, knowing that of 370 systematicized jobs, somewhere 17% or something more unfulfilled, I'm interested in what you think, whether it is necessary to reduce the number of entities to audit or what measures should be taken to not only fill these 17% but maybe increase the number of 370 jobs because it should be kept in mind that pay is not always the only factor that is stimulating. Maybe solving housing problems through the award of personnel apartments, as one of the kind of help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114889	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114890	Thank you very much. If 370 is systematicized, then I think it is necessary to seek to increase the number of perpetrators, but in any case, it should be taken into account exactly how these persons and people can be stimulated and how to attract, ultimately, younger people and new people to come to work at the State Audit Office. You should scan the actual state, what you say, and suggest how you might solve housing issues, why not, and that's how you can help individual employees, and which would then be an additional stimulant to sign up and do this job. So I don't think there should be any taboos and that it should also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114891	Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114892	Dear colleagues, you on this right have today decided to move the ball somewhere to some small political parties, to conditional opinions that are not really something that burdens this country. This country is hampered by the fact that after the state audit concludes the problems, that the recommendations, that there is no implementation of these recommendations and that you have tried very often through your questions to explain that it belongs to the DORH. My question to you, you chose a state attorney, what is the way DORH acted by what the state's audit has concluded as a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114893	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114894	This way, every job done, regardless of its nominal amount, financially small, large, etc., must be correct and correct, so it must be done legally. Therefore, it is very important that opinions, especially on political parties, that the State Audit Office is giving such opinions and that some political parties progress can be monitored as they progressed during this period. What you're trying to do now, and what needs to be said, the State Audit Act, we said, in 2019, made it possible to punish a criminal for non-execution of certain actions. Known within which time, recommendations must be made if not created That's when he's responsible for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a...... [[You don't have any more. You don't have any more.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114895	You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Brumnic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114896	A respected colleague has hurt my common sense not responding to what I really asked her, and to explain from a pay phone that the problem of some smaller political parties is what led them to be trouble, not to consider that one political party was convicted of crime, I must admit, insanely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114897	Thank you very much. Listen, I could answer as a psychologist right now, but that's not my part, so I have to give you a heads-up because it was a replica. Mr. Jaksic, please. ... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who? Yeah? Are you sure? 100%? Yeah? - Here you go, Mrs. President. The coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114898	... Then we agreed on who was first, 238, this debate, or this replica, or whatever was raised by his colleague Brumnic, really doesn't make any sense with anything. [[Specially enabled.]] It doesn't make any sense on anything. It connects incoherently, the story of things that have nothing to do with each other at all, and you've now allowed it, I think. Here. [[Wait, wait.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114899	Wait, I'm what? How could I not? [[Intruder: You didn't give him a warning.]] A reminder, and you have a warning. [[And you got it? Then I apologize.]] And you, and don't thank me for the warning, 'cause I'm gonna do it again. [[Then I apologize to you and thank you for your warning.]] This is the law, not working under the Rules of Procedure means not working by the law. It's not my fault, it's the big parties who wrote it, right? Mr. Habian, here you go. You've got more injuries, haven't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114900	Thank you very much. So he was injured by a colleague. 238th century 1 indent 5, so what you and your colleague Peric said during her presentation and later on in the case of the Rules of Procedure is an eclectic example of pressure on the judiciary. So I think my colleague tried to explain me to DORH's jurisdiction. The DORH by the Constitution, by law is independent and independent and that's what's wrong with you that you don't understand and it would be good for you to read that law and if you finally understand, then you'll talk about it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114901	Sir, no, please don't, please don't, I'll have to give more warning than just this one, a reminder to Mr. Habib because it was a replica, you know better than me, right? Mr. Jaksic good afternoon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114902	Hello, thank you, dear Vice President, respected representatives of the audit, of course colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, what I can say is that regardless of what we're up against, we'll all give ourselves the joyous debates from this part of the assembly since it's obvious that we can expect then that it won't remain as many times as a dead letter on paper, but we'll really all give ourselves enough effort to help these people finally get adequate salaries and adequate conditions, but also an adequate understanding of everything they're responding to because we think that in today's debates we've heard a lot of times how hard and extensive work is on them, and firsthand from the Koprivnica itself can say that neither their pay nor human capacitation is enough to meet all the challenges that of course time. What I must say here at the very beginning is that, of course, according to the possibilities, they make an effort to do a proper job, that many times in the city administration they use their advice, their proposals, because just sometimes the professional service of local and regional self-government can't have all the answers, and there really is one correct cooperation. But what did I say in my opening part? 15 thousand taxpayers or 15 thousand is the number these people in the audit should be aware of, of course, the key question is when, how, and in what way. This is where we come to the other problem, which is how to attract even new people who want to work in the audit, given that we all know how many salaries are in these and such services, and I don't mean just reviewing it, I could now point out the case and the state's attorney's office which is mentioned several times today, but let's say the inspector of the crime police because the question is how we're going to motivate people to work in these occupations that should be both very important and very honorable for any country and for any ultimately society. Of course, if you don't have a team of staff you can hardly respond to all these challenges and it's hard to solve things that have been accumulated for years, some of them appear as the product of some new ways I would dare say and give birth to crime, and then we have the kind of debate that we've had in some parts of today. The fact is that it can't be for all the responsible audits without those final data that we still need someone else to give us. And what I would personally like in some future reports, should be seen legally, should be seen who should be given it, perhaps not necessarily reviewing, to get a report with what has been done, which have been reactions, whether the state's attorney's office, whether the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, because there are some violations that are not always for the state's attorneyship, but are also for preventing conflicts of interest, because today the review has done this, the audit has done what is great and it's asking a question of people doing something, people are doing something, there are negative findings of review, but I don't see a lot of times that something ends with criminal prosecution or with some clear acts by the state's attorneys and some other bodies, and simply, I think it's more a question for the ruling that in some future reports it would be good to know how much it was negative, how much it's done in the public opinion, because it's just how much it's done. We have passed a lot of laws, a lot of things have forced us to join the EU, a lot of things are done today and more transparently outside, but we still have a lot to do and a lot we could have done before. Of course gold is also worth reviewing efficiency, especially if we are looking at our communal systems that in many situations were nothing more than a means to calm down the voting machine, and this is very visible in the bar, we could now add... other examples of these and there is an important revision, but we need to give these people the social importance that comes through pay, through staff teamwork, through motivation, but also through support from other bodies that are then in the development of certain problems and difficulties much more important and much more important than they can be or what they have powers to do when they produce their audit report. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114903	Thank you, too. Mr. Lalovac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We made a $15,000 deal, and that's what we all said today. This report was supervised to me by 770 subjects, right, 771, 15 thousand 770 in one year, you know how long it takes, 20 years. We need to revise 15 thousand subjects. If we're doing what they've been doing right now, I don't want to say they haven't had a day's work. Well, then, our laws are absolutely wrong, absolutely, so that we can force such a part of the job into the state's audit office to revise 15 thousand entities in 20 years. That it can't be done, right? I think seriously, it has nothing to do with the state audit office, but here with us, who are making such laws to seriously question what, what are we people even bringing in, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114905	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114906	Absolutely, we're just creating mistrust with the institutions, but we're also making it terribly difficult for the people who are sitting here, so without a clear political decision on how we're going to team them up, what salaries or receipts we're going to give to motivate people to work in the state audit office, we can't expect to move, and I can say that total mirage is that people in the audit work really for low wages, really for low wages, and today we've had opportunities to hear and pay in certain agencies and in the CNB, and then on the one hand you have a state audit that you expect to keep the system and that's their role, and actually without tools and without any more guns and you're punishing them with their wages, and on the other side you have the CNB where the salaries are 40, 50, 60, 60, 60 thousand kunas that you're supposed to keep citizens in these inflation problems, and in a way you'll be able to follow the price and buy where they are cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114907	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114908	Your Honor, Vice President. Your Honor, as mayor, you run your system and you know who your position is, who your opposition is, I didn't really get the impression today of who the opposition is, and who your position is. Why? Because in the system of wages from 7 to 70000 kuna as far as we can see today, so from the audit to some agencies as well as the wages we actually heard the most remarks from the ruling ones. So those who manage and enable that system. So if you in Koprivnica see that there is such a range, then you react to it. I ask you how we from the opposition can influence the rule of law and make the system more just and therefore make the whole system of state administrations and states fairer and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114909	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114910	So if not before, we will see at the latest in the 2023 budget where it will be visible what the Government plans with salaries and other rights and the State Audit Office and the State Attorney's Office, so that I do not now list all services that should safeguard the legality of the system and help restore faith to Croatian institutions. But that's what I said in my debate. It's interesting how much together we all talk together today, we need to pay people, we need to help them, we need to motivate them, they need to be further staffed, and so far in all these years, except for the changes in the laws where, as we bring more transparency, we've done absolutely nothing. And I think that colleague Ivanovic had a replica today, where he interpreted it, so we passed the Transparency Act for the local administration. I just want to know why we didn't do the same thing for state officials, state agencies, state firms. Of course, there was probably no need because there is more money in cities than in the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114911	Thank you. Pauliche.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114912	A respected colleague, often in modern times, when we mention employment in some public, public services, all agencies will be told that it is unwarranted. Most of the time. One of the few cases is precisely the State Audit where there are currently 305 employees, another 72 vacant jobs, although even this may not be enough to carry out a more quality and more frequent state-run audit, especially as regards municipalities, where the State's audit enters once every five years, and where a lot of money unfortunately is spent non-transparently and would be saved much more and that another 200 people would be employed additionally on their salaries and that more salaries than money is spent precisely because the simple State audit cannot constantly enter such local self-government units every year. In order to solve this, here I hope that and by ruling listen, the next budget will be much more generous for the State Audit. If not, that's right for us from the opposition to forget the amendments to the increase in funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114913	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114914	So without the political will of the majority where there is obviously a will on our part to support it cannot be solved and cannot be better, because it has been going on for a very long time now. I could now give you examples from my home county. I'm not going to salt anyone's wounds, where shortly after the State Audit report was published, we saw what was going on in some municipalities, we could read it all, we could discuss it all. The audit did its job and ended it. The only thing we're missing is someone answering after that, yeah, we're dealing with it or we're doing it for that. It turns out, unfortunately, that many times the revisions with the problems they have, both in wages and in teamwork, do their job, and after a while someone cuts it off and says they'll get better, they'll be good, the dogs bark the caravans pass. Unfortunately, so far in the good part of the audit was the case, and that's not the responsibility of these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114915	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114916	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Jaksic. We all agree that 300 people cannot carry out surveillance, auditing 15000 entities in one year. It's my question to you, and in fact it's more of a question to the representatives of the State Audit, perhaps how, in what way is determined, it means which entities will be subject to supervision in that year, where they will go, to whom they will be supervised. Whether there are criteria or based on some indications etc.? I really want to know, I just don't know what it's determined by, so it's a practical question more addressed to them. But here if you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114917	I really do now...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114918	Mr. Jaksic, Mr. Jaksic, I must give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114919	I really don't have that final decision right now. What I can say from the corners of the city administration of the town of Koprivnica in some fields came because we asked for not some things to be cleared up, and this other one went according to some keys, years, plans, I really don't have an answer. But what I can say from the corner of the town of Koprivnica is I've been remembering for nine years, so let's say that three, four times we had the State Review in certain fields, according to certain projects, programs, and that each time it was both correct and useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114920	Well, thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114921	And she repetitio is mother studiorum. So we're going to do a little repeat of what I said in the replica and a little bit more detail. So, various reports come to the Croatian Parliament and we have some rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, and one rule is that by ruling the defenses of reports and rapporteurs because that is the case. The second rule is that the opposition attacks the rapporteurs of the report because that's the case. We have an exception, the exception is today. And not only today, but every time the review report comes, there's always an exception where the opposition gets a little flinch, it stops and then slowly starts to praise the rapporteur and the report. Compliments so you're doing well, great, you're the best hairstyle, you should give more money, increase budget, hire, so you're miserable, here's what you want to drink, eat and so on. And why is that? Because the audit is auditing, that is, auditing political parties and still doing a lot of things there. It's not all white, there's gray, there's white, of course, of course. And then it's better in a good way with the auditors because you never know when he'd burn it, he said so you don't do my people. It takes you 20 years to do something. Well, then maybe it'd be just tomorrow. Let's take a closer look here and that party, they're in the Parliament, they're out in the media, so now we're gonna take a look at you. And that's right, you have to be aware of that. And whoever praises you better control him, he's more suspicious. I'd like to take a look at him in detail, what you know is the last lip would roll over what's in there. It's psychology, but simple psychology and you know what I'm talking about. And the other thing here, okay you have different situations now, is that Boric here talked about some situations that are actually strange, some parties are formally shut down, and still they're not actually shut down for the sake of finance. That should be regulated legally in my assembly, but here's something that goes under the radar like that. Okay, my ex-party kicked me out of the party all by the law, everything okay got kicked out, the procedure was fine, there's nothing, it's not all done the way it's supposed to be. However, I am your member of another party right now and this party is getting the money from me. So, technically, I'm independent and these parties are going to give up publicly here and now, but that's HRAST and you're re-enacting it, right? And I'm the vice president there, and I've never been notified for half a year by anyone, there's nothing, I don't know, there's a little bit of an analysis. Here's how this party, who's signing it, how, who's verifying it. I know people that nobody gets anything. Okay, they agreed one day when it's legally possible to connect with other parties, but they exist. Here's a little detail that's interesting. It's not a lot of money that's a million kuna taxpayers for about my term, which is a million kuna that's this ridiculous, but someone with that money has to ask no one. For citizens, too, few citizens know at the expense of each term that the political party gets about a million kunas and those parties who speak of poverty to God about how money is here and there these parties also have millions of kunas for each of their representatives plus from local mandates, from local council mandates, it is extremely, extremely good money. So, the thing is simple here I'm saying a particular thing that's a little bit, here's how it works, I don't know, I don't mean to have business with people anymore, but here's to one analysis and to a little bit see what's going on here. And on the other hand, those who most commended you here are the most and try and analyze them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114922	And now it's Mr. Named Brumnic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114923	Dear Vice President, respected state auditor with associates, respected colleagues, after I told my colleague Zekanovic in my first debate that you had looked at the director's drama there would have been explained a lot. And now, in fact, why I came forward for the debate, I didn't mean to discuss this issue twice, but when she spoke to a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club, she then mentioned the revision of the efficiency of governance of the strategic commodity stocks for the Republic of Croatia for 2019, 2020, she mentioned some recommendations, she mentioned that it was good, that the recommendations would be implemented, and we are talking about a secret document. I have to admit, I didn't want to get a warning then from the chairman, so I answered the debate, and I would like to ask a real answer in which way someone from this pay phone can talk about a document that is secret and especially praise that document. So that was why I answered and asked you to answer because it's simply not clear to me how someone can get off this phone about a document that we've all stayed except for the fact that we can't say anything about it, can say it's good and how he figured out it's good. And now for the rest of my time, I'm going to take a chance, and I'm going to look back at some more of the things that were said in this debate. I don't know if anyone's aware when speaking from this pay phone to say that 370 people aren't enough to review business in the Republic of Croatia where we have 3 million and 600 and 3 million and 800 inhabitants, respectively. It's true that a colleague of Lalovac said, we've loaded them with 15,000 entities they have to re-edit, but if these subjects were to work properly, it probably shouldn't take a month, but it would be over in two days. Further information should not be sought, etc., and then it would be shorter, so perhaps the number of entities would either be reduced or not revised over time. If the ruling majority had opened it as a topic, the state's attorney's office would have done their job, perhaps those who named themselves in places to handle this system would be a little more afraid of not reviewing, rather than insubsistence. And that I will agree with those who said that political parties should be let's say the most transparent and best in their business, that the fish is being cleaned out of their heads, but as I said, some I didn't see but I saw that 15% of the political parties got a conditional opinion, but one political party got a verdict. However, the verdict is a little more difficult than the conditional opinion of the review whether someone has entered into business or has forgotten to enter it. This donor thing, I agree, it's really not a problem, and I think the donation question really needs to be transparent so the public knows who you represent. So I say, I will once again commend the work of the state audit, but I will ask those who manage the systems whether they are aware that more state auditors will not solve the problem of incompetent managers, will not solve the problem of those who do insubordination, the problem of those who do indifference will solve the state's attorneys, and the problem of the incompetent will solve those who set them. The state's audit can't solve what's on the one hand in your domain, and on the other hand in the domain of an independent state attorney's office who's on the phone with the prime minister, here's so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114924	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Begonja, finally on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114925	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the respected chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is another final report on behalf of the HDZ Club on the report submitted on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021. in some of his basic lines. In view of our public, it should be pointed out that the state audit office has been established as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia and the constitution which audits the financial reports and operations of the audit entities established by law, checks the compliance of their operations with the relevant regulations, assesses the economic, efficiency, the purpose of the management of public funds, of course gives orders and recommendations, monitors their implementation in order to remove irregularities in business. So one word of the work of the State Audit Office is very important for the functioning of the state and all its bodies, public enterprises, institutions, units of local, regional self-government units. This report, as we have heard from representatives of all clubs and not only clubs but also from individual discussions of colleagues and colleagues, has been professionally made, transparently, shows exceptional efforts and the work of employees of the State Audit Office, and will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ as already stated and supported. According to the basic statistics report, the state audit office was in 2021. HS delivered 254 audit reports, along with those audit reports, 6 joint audit reports have been submitted for users of the state budget, local units, companies owned by local units, political parties and independent representatives, there are also tourist communities, as well as the management of municipal infrastructure in JLS. About 45 audits started last year, and are expected to be completed this year. As regards the opinions given in the financial audits, 99 unconditional opinions, 127 conditional opinions and 3 unfavourable opinions were expressed in the compatibility of business, 107 unconditional opinions, 119 conditional opinions and 2 unfavourable opinions were expressed. We see that, in the context of the audits carried out, in particular, the current 3 topics related to the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other competent entities in response to the specific needs of the economy and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a result of the pandemic caused by covid-19 disease and earthquake, so it is a matter of reviewing the effectiveness of the management of the strategic stockpiles, an audit of the effectiveness of the management of humanitarian aid stocks, and a revision of the coordination of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus. The objective of this review was to determine whether support for the preservation of jobs in the activities affected by the coronary virus was paid in accordance with the relevant regulations and decisions on whether it is managed correctly with the strategic supply and supply of humanitarian aid. It is also noted several times that during this period, the State Audit Office has collaborated with the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to which the audit reports have been submitted, and the notifications to 7 entities which did not, within the prescribed time limit, remove and submit a plan for the implementation of the mandates and recommendations, and 23 entities which have not carried out the tasks and recommendations in the 2020 audits. It is also, of course, stated whether the audits were carried out, whether infringements and provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums were carried out, 35 political parties and 3 independent representatives who did not comply or violated the law in question. The State Audit Office also co-operated with the MUP where they provided additional reports and additional clarifications for 21 entities. The State audit has given significant attention to improving the office's capacity to educate employees in order to successfully and effectively carry out tasks under their jurisdiction, to provide preconditions for professional, ethical and responsible, and transparent work of employees, it is evident that it has been invested in improving and modernised information systems by purchasing equipment and programmes to monitor the course of the audit with the new implementation plan module and recommendations. So that he doesn't speak specifically now, and multiple times it's been said about pay, about systematicized jobs, what's important to say And that's that we'll support as a club this State Audit Office report, thank you and forgive me. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114926	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, also final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114927	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Representatives. I'm going to use this final presentation to say something about the reports in general, about the very report by the State Audit Office, and I said everything I needed to say in the opening statement. In fact, this is one of the 70 total reports that different state bodies submit to HS and which HS discuss or adopt. I think we should start talking about the fact that HS as an institution escapes from its own responsibility and that the reporting system is generally not well regulated and standardised, and the problems arising from the lack of regulation could be heard during today's debate which resulted in a part of the MP not understanding the content or reach of the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office at all, I think you will agree. Now, when I talk about the report itself, in art. 24 The State Audit Act only writes the date until which the State Audit Office is obliged to submit its report, that is, on 31 March. That's all. The provisions of that Law, and this Law adopts HS, are not prescribed, firstly, which this Report should even contain. It does not say in the law, it is actually left to free will and interpretation of its role as the State Audit Office itself. Secondly, it doesn't say what's due to the non-admission of the report, and I think it should be written. So HS is a body that is tasked with controlling through this Report another institution, however, the process of disputed work is in fact not under the law nor elaborated, is once again left on the disposition of the parliamentary majority that can initiate the procedure of change and, if necessary, there is no such need at present, but theoretically there is the possibility of major institutional abuse and institutional pressure on the leaders of an independent regulatory body. I believe that there is no such pressure at the moment, I think you would do well in your work, but I say, in general, that these issues which HS should be regulated by better norming relevant laws in the area of procedure and the course of discussion and the submission of annual reports. Also, something that is specific to this report, and it goes against the usual parliamentary practice, namely, we very often, when we are discussing a law, we have a situation, and President Jandrokovic talked about it during the morning, when we were arguing about whether the parent committees should be sitting during plenary debates, I agree with my colleague, I don't think it should be like that, but in general, once the agenda is sent for next week, then the committees are called together and the day before the discussion in HS committees have something to say. This report was submitted on 31 March. The Mother's Committee on Finance discussed him on May 25th. Any parliamentary representative could have been present on that committee and could have said, "You know what, I don't like that some data is missing in that report because the moment the report was submitted, it's available on the websites. And nothing obliges us to wait until the chairman remembers to include this Report on the agenda, each of us has a duty and has a duty to give himself a little time and effort, if we have to read the report on weekends, so if we feel that we are missing something on this Report or that only the Report should be made differently, there is enough time to take advantage of those business opportunities that exist, but we all seem to have forgotten, too, that through the parent board we are asking that the parent board adopts the conclusion, decision, obligation and that some body that submits the report says so now, it's good, but give us a little more clarification of some circumstances and provide us with some additional information, and then we could also adopt practice when adopting and voting the reports we say what about this report itself. What will change in the regulations, both related to the work of this body, but also to the work of a number of others on which the data are listed in this Report. To do so, such decisions must precede quality It's a debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114928	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114929	Thank you. Well, here, every year, we follow the State Audit Report very closely because, in fact, in one perhaps very moderate language, it actually includes the disclosure of major failures, illegalities, but also institutional not capacities, or the lack of institutional capacity to implement certain regulations. I'm always trying to read it in a way that I can actually see what a state audit job is, so it's clear that they can determine something, but they can't intervene on their own, in some things. However, of course, it is also evident that there is this dimension of cooperation between the state audit and the DORH, and that is important because it seems to us that only these things can be removed. What I wanted to point out in this final, when I read some of the findings, I notice a really wonderful and subtle sense of humor that only these people have of your profession, so for example it's really interesting to see that in our public companies, for example, they pay for stimulating severances to people who want to go on their own and still give them stimulating severances. Here's an example I'm going to read to you, so the employee, as an explanation, has stated that he wants to make an agreement to terminate the contract, that the job he's doing is not challenging enough for them and that they think that their work could be done by someone with a very low salary. So, they said management look, I mean what I do doesn't make any sense, it can really do any dad, you pay me no matter what, I go somewhere else. However, this person with such an explanation meets the criteria for stimulating severance, so when we talk about stimulative severance, we are talking about 2.2.5 times the incentive to leave than it would be the severance that someone is entitled to by law and they pay him neatly. Awesome. It's a public company. Other means of spending on representation means other than, of course, paying the costs of official travel, hosting business partners, paying licenses and other costs. Okay. There are some legitimate costs of the team we all know, all fine. But then, of course, we see that business credit cards pay for perfumes. Yeah, well, now, but who? So as business partners. And who are the business partners? The departments and the institutions that have to cooperate, so who legally has to cooperate with this public enterprise, and they are given gifts for what? So that's what I think and I think it's a very good question to ask if such business partners really need to be given any gifts that don't matter what 3,000 kunas are. Or the headphones of this wireless for 16000 kuna. Oh, no? It doesn't matter. The question is whether it has any business purpose as of course it does not have any business purpose when, for example, certain public undertakings give or keep business gifts as a business secret, some relationship with business users. Monopolies are on the market. What are we talking about, then? I mean, clearly, there's no logic behind it. I wanted one more thing to point out. So, and this is a problem that we have also seen in the mass of public enterprises and self-government of local, regional and these are rewards for participating in projects that are paid before the project is finished. You're already getting a reward as if you know you've fulfilled the results or failed to fulfill the results. So, it doesn't matter what results you've achieved through the project, but the prize comes. So that, in my opinion, is also absolutely what some unacceptable business practice is. The key thing I wanted to underline was the municipal infrastructure that was built on 20 units. I think there's one important thing about that, and I think it's important to say it here. Yes, the failures that happen, the fact that we don't have a registered municipal infrastructure, that for example, I'll say about Zagreb we found that there is therefore no list of underground municipal infrastructure that you don't know when you're drilling somewhere that's down there. So that's unacceptable. And, of course, after 20 years, we're about to solve it now, but what I'm saying is that a lot of local self-government units don't have the capacity or the means to actually meet all the legal things that we should do, and that's actually different by tax. they are deprived of the resources that these capacities could have. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114930	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, everyone who participated. Thank you very much to the chief auditor with the associates. We are now moving to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the state and management of supply supplies for 2020. with financial indicators. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Six. The Strategic Stocks Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture What? [[Strengling from the bench: Vesna Vucilović seeks a break]] All right, let me just say who's here, who's here, so I'll give you my word right now. [[Strengling from the bench: Vesna Vucilović seeks a break]] With us is Mr Ivo Milatić, who will give the State Secretary who, at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, will give the introduction, but before that, Mrs. Vucimilović asked for, she probably asked for a break A break. [[Clip intrusion: Yes, yes]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114933	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to point out once again the importance of this topic, but also the fact that this report has been on the agenda for a long time, but we, as opposition representatives or the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, had to collect 30 signatures to discuss goods supplies today when there is an extremely large food and energy uncertainty in the world, when the UN warns us that hunger could occur in certain parts of the world in the 21st century, we had to collect 30 signatures to bring this topic and this report to debate at the plenary session. This way I really thank all the colleagues of the opposition who gave their signature for this initiative, and I will only mention that there is a harvest before us, so soon the harvest of barley and wheat is coming, what will this state do, what will the government of the Republic of Croatia do to make 10 days after the harvest of our silos not empty? We have grains more than our needs, but every year they repeat the same thing. And another very important question, in the 3rd month of this year, the Croatian government made a decision to start filling goods, why are they filled with wheat now that it is 2 kunas and 70 kunas, and even 3 kunas, and why did they not fill the stock last year after harvesting when it was twice the price of wheat and who in this country will be responsible and will anyone in this country ever be responsible for all that taxpayers pay?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114934	Time, thank you. He approves of the break and we move on, Mr Ivo Milatić, state What? [[You've got more breaks.]] Wow, ma'am, Mr. Damir Byce. [[You've got more breaks, Bice.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114935	Mr. Chairman, dear secretary of state, in front of the Focus Club and independent MPs would request a 10-minute break to consult on some facts. We have a stock reserve report ahead of us and I'm going to say that what looks like it's totally fine, so we have the amount, we have the leadership that's written in the report modelly with the attention of a good host, but we also have the fact that the government of the Republic of Croatia has been interveningly receiving funds to fill the stock reserves two months ago. And another thing that may be most important, which is that audit supervision of the stock reserves has been carried out and that it has been declared "very secret". If so, the stock reserves have such excellent data, quantities and all that is related is not clear why they would, because only above this supervision is the label “very secret”. I didn't take advantage of it, the possibility of looking at it that I can and can talk here in any way I want to, but it's one disparity between the report, the code of secrecy and the fact that those parliamentary representatives who saw this report can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114936	Thank you very much. It's okay to take a break. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114937	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Clubs Center and GLAS, and the topic is, of course, what's on our agenda now. We have a report on the state and management of stocks for 2020 on our agenda. with financial indicators. 2020 is one year that was very interesting for the whole, for Europe and the world, and additionally for Croatia, and for the year in which the crisis of the crown or covida-19 occurred, that is the year that, at the very beginning of March 22nd, the City of Zagreb hit a catastrophic earthquake, and at the end of the year, the area of Banija or Banovina, and that is the year in which the importance of the stock stocks, their importance, the importance of their management, the importance of complementing them, of filling them, is the importance of being ready for these challenges. Yes, but as this is not the end of our lives, it comes to us in 2022, where we are on February 24th, which will last, and the consequences of that war will be felt by all of us together in Europe and we will feel it for a very long time by the fact that all experts and them should listen from the level of the world talking about the threat and the crisis of insufficient food. So the last moment is to discuss in this high house this report in 2020 and point to a series of things that are problematic to us and a series of things that should go because in 2022. Did any of you think that someone would mention hunger in the world, certainly not, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114938	Thank you, too. It's okay to take a break. Mr. Ivo, I'm sorry you picked this up, it was a mistake, okay. Mr Ivo Milatić will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, you will be presented with a report on the state and management of supply supplies for 2020 with financial indicators. The operation of goods supplies in 2020 took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Act, the 2002 Strategic Stock Stocks, the rules applicable to the budget and the budgetary users and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law states that strategic stockpiles are created to provide basic supplies at a time of war or a direct threat to independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. In 2020 total revenues of 656,686 million kuna, expenditure of 593,613 million kuna were made and a surplus revenue of 63,072 million kuna was made which, with excess income and income from previous years, amounted to 5 million decimal points 90,97 makes available a surplus carried over in 2021 of 69 million decimal point 070. The above-mentioned surplus revenue is also the result of the avanic payment of the protection of equipment from China and the transport costs of 47 million comma 553, which was shown as a cost in 2021 when all this was delivered. The remaining excess income of 21 commas and a half, 21.5 million kuna was used in 2021 for the most part to purchase goods and fill the balance sheet of strategic stock stocks and for ongoing and additional investments in their own warehouses. In 2020, purchases amounting to HRK 469,465 million were made. In most cases, it relates to the rapid purchase of protective and other equipment for the purpose of intervention to prevent the spread of coronary virus epidemics. 12.78 million kunas of food and 456,574 million non-food products were purchased. Of the food products there are 5,000 tonnes of wheat, 125 tonnes of flour, 10 tonnes of pasta, 7.5 tonnes of cheese, 15 tonnes of meat and 10 tonnes of fish cans, 5 tonnes of jam, 10,000 litres of oil and 600,000 litres of drinking water. Out of non-food products, it is provided for various protections and various protective equipment worth 439,156 million kunas, 104 housing containers, 10,000 sleeping bags, 20 water tanks, 55,000 metres of mobile dams and other goods. A detailed list of all goods especially those of 439,156 million kunas you have in the report specified in dozens of items. The total value of the stock, i.e. goods and real estate and equipment on 31.12.2020, was EUR 627,654 million. In addition to this report, a review of the state of supply by species, quantities and values on 31.12.2020 is presented, which is also requested to this appreciated home when we discussed the latest report here for 2019. In order to protect the health of persons and employees of hospitals and health institutions and other services from the possible infection of the coronary virus, the Directorate for Stocks has started issuing protective equipment from strategic stockpiles for the purposes of the Health Ministry crisis headquarters since mid-February 2020. Following the announcement of the Covida-19 disease epidemic declared by the Minister of Health on 11 March 2020 and the government's decision on the procurement and use of strategic stockpiles for the purpose of implementing health protection measures and strengthening the surveillance of viral spread, the directorship began with the hasty procurement of protection, protection and other necessary equipment and goods. The total value of the goods obtained for the purpose of the intervention of disease prevention in 2020 was 446,616 million kuna while the value of the transport, repair and rental services for medical oxygen was totalling 56,328 million kuna. The Director's Office for Stock Stocks paid the cost of mobilisation and quarantine to companies of the amount of 15, amounting to 15,5 million kuna all clearly in accordance with the Staff's mandate. After the earthquake that took place on 22 March 2020, the area of the City of Zagreb of Stocks intervened on the same day with the equipment for the care of the population in the City of Zagreb. Delivery of residential containers for accommodation of the population whose homes were destroyed in the area of Marija Bistrica and the City of Zagreb was carried out. The Director's Office for Stocks also paid the cost of mobilising the facilities i.e. accommodation of the population in the facilities of the University of Zagreb, Student Centre, Hostel Arena and Terme Jezerčica, totalling 17.6 million kuna. As a result of the elemental disasters that have hit us in collaboration with the Civil Protection Directorate, the MUP, have become increasingly common, strategic stockpiles are increasingly being used. Also by moving goods and equipment and providing for the storage and use of voluntary fire companies and public fire departments, there is an increase in equipment and preparedness for faster intervention which can prevent accidents of larger scales such as fires, floods and the like. In 2020, 2020 was a particularly demanding year due to the elemental earthquake in Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County, the Covida-19 epidemic. The Director's Office for Stock Stocks was actively involved in the supply and delivery of protective equipment to protect health from Covid-19. In order to fully fulfil their basic role for which stocks are intended, it takes a long time to fill in the strategic stock supply that would allow for more efficient use and more availability of strategic stocks. In addition, further creation of supply supplies in an indirect way would also contribute to the economic activity of companies through the purchase of goods and the settlement of storage costs and preservation of the quality of supply. Therefore, the emphasis in further business should primarily be placed on the provision of funds for the supply of goods, particularly in the direction of new amendments to the Strategic Stock Act, which will soon come to a second reading in the Assembly as well as the further modernisation of its own storage space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114940	Thank you, too. You have replicas. Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114941	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I have a very simple question. First, I'm sorry that we're discussing the 2020 report in 2022, but okay, we can't change that now, that's the way it is. I'm wondering who put the secret mark on the documents that are related to the stockpiles? What is it about stockpiles that Croatian citizens who fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and we buy from the budget everything we need for supplies, what is there in secret that they should not know? I think it's about weapons. I understand it's supposed to be secret, but I don't think we should have a secret here. Here, if you could explain that a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114942	Thank you for your question, Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114943	I must, I must give you, Mr. Secretary of State. I must give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114944	And if you'll excuse me, I apologize. Thank you for asking. As a member of the board of directors, you know exactly why it's secret. So we're this one, we're working according to the law that was passed in 2002. That law then prescribed that it was secretly all that was done. And now we stick to that law while he's in effect. You had a chance at first reading to see the law. Clearly, the law is at least the one that passed the first reading, and the final proposal is the same as the one about secrecy, it will practically take all the secrecy out of everything other than what is quite logical to remain secret, and that is territorial space. Territorial distribution will remain very secret, and everything else will be completely public, as is now public all available data. And by the way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114945	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114946	Thank you very much. Here you have in some way made clear the doubt that has been heard today in the assembly and during the break relating to secrecy where in some way you wanted to create an image that these Governments of the Republic of Croatia or that in this term something wants to be hidden from the public or that transparency has been reduced, as well as in the first point today, regarding the report of the Chief State Auditor, where you are also given certain and instructions and guidelines. You're part of it now and you said, so the fact is that you, like any other state institution, are working in accordance with the law. The law was passed in 2002, or passed, by the government of Ivica Racan, and what this government is doing is that it is in the process of adopting a new law that will practically remove secrecy from all the things other than the necessary location. And so I think it's important that this government works. Something else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114947	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114948	Thank you. You clearly confirmed everything I said, and I absolutely agree with you. So it would be unserious of the government to do otherwise than the law provides. So the law provides that if something is secret, and it comes to the Croatian Parliament what I know is, I got the same in the sealed envelope that, in writing that came to the Croatian Parliament. It came to the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, it is the Committee on Economy, there are representatives of all the political options from this esteemed home and there everyone can see and see the document. I don't suppose the council, the chairman of this board, would mind if the other MPs did, and we don't see anything else here, but we respect the procedure that's being drawn up and we stick to it. We have nothing to hide but what we have to say by law must be done. Here's everything, everything, at least you. As Parliamentarians, you can know everything and find out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114949	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114950	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Miletic, therefore this topic of secrecy, of course, we who were members of the Committee on Economy, had the opportunity to see it, we had to sign that it was a secret document and, of course, no matter how it was it was itchy and how much we wanted to talk on our elbow, we should not talk about what we had the opportunity to see. There are a number of things that are usually publicly available and that we will talk about that are in this material, but there is also something that would be good for the public to know which are not data, which are not figures, which is the finding of a state audit in 5 or 10 sentences that is, but then on that and that is not the subject. That's all I have left, and what I want to ask you is next. And that's, we're going to be buying those oil supplies this year, asking why what we had proved to be a 2020 problem with the oil supply. Why aren't we We're done in 2021, but we're going to 2022? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114951	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114952	Thank you for asking, as far as the stock is concerned, we're going to regularly fill in every year as much as we get in the budget, at least get about 30 million for the fill, at least 70-80, on average that's 30-40, and we've been filling out regularly as we could. Given these extraordinary circumstances, the government has made a decision to go in full, we have now filled this decision with 4 million liters of this oil that we bought in the public tender, cost 15 kuna and 90 liters, and that's just the real price that was possible at the time, the question would be that we didn't get it would probably be a question and why you didn't get it, so they're always these dilemmas. The most expensive oil will be the one we don't have, and we've got enough of it in stock, I think that's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114953	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114954	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, 2020. It was challenging, as well as for the department of supply. Your report shows that in mid-February, you actually issued protection of equipment, which was, therefore, what you had on you in March 2020. In fact, the competition or the procurement of additional protective equipment is called for in view of the situation of covid-19 which has been bursting and I think that because of all the dissonant tones that were actually coming and at that time and later by the opposition where such emergency procurement or procurement without public procurement was causing, I think it is necessary to actually explain what would have happened that such emergency and hastily not actually obtained that all protective equipment in view of the healthcare professionals who were on if we can say so on the front line of the battlefield. Therefore, I think that in this context we should also commend those who actually work in the supply directory, but also by actually ensuring that this first blow actually pandemics, i.e. covid-19, is as mild and minor as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114955	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114956	Thank you. Your question is more of a finding than a question or a replica. This one absolutely agrees with you, very often in the Croatian public it happens that it simply forgets for a while what it was, and then with the distance and security of some new time that has no longer had to do with that time it starts talking and it could have been like this, it could have been like that. The clear procurement of goods in time, the times of covid crisis or excitation was not possible on the basis of a public tender in the open procedure because these amounts of public procurement should have lasted 60 days with complaints, with everything and when people around them were dying and something happened then I don't know how to explain it to the Public Procurement Act, but the Public Procurement Act said that there was a negotiating process and a shortened procedure, we followed this procedure in accordance with the government's decisions and acted on it and how much opportunity I had to see in the review report nowhere mentioned that we had broken the law in terms of procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114957	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114958	Breaking the law is a very relative finding because there is nothing in it about which you paid the price for a particular product, and even this oil you mentioned in such a large amount you paid more in wholesale than even in this stock crisis. Since I'm interested in how this is possible, I'm going to ask you a question about another secret, and that's when the secret mark will finally be removed and returned to public procurement and medical supplies and everything else regarding stockpiles, then the criterion or argument was covid, but we've de facto declared the pandemic over and over the public procurement of goods supplies, and according to the prices achieved here and some others that we point out are far from market-real and closer to retail prices, and not what the state should achieve in the negotiating process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114959	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114960	Thank you. I absolutely refuse categorically your insinuations that we get something at prices that aren't real, it's realistic what you can post in a public competition, not what you and I would like and I would like to buy oil for 13 kuna, and that wasn't possible. The public tender was conducted according to regulations and all possible oscillations and the company, which, the Croatian company, specifically Chepin, sold our oil factory at the price at which it offered according to the law and we accepted it, we could say, what, we don't like and then, for no reason, this competition break up, it's out of the question, we bought and paid. As far as medical equipment is concerned, it is obtained in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, not in haste, but in this procedure which you have said and proposed, because clearly there is no longer any basis to obtain haste. From now on and the future [[Intruder: Thank you]] Here's how we went from the last purchase. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114961	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114962	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114963	It is not foreseen, the dialogue is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, yes. It was predicted honestly, but it wasn't foreseen. - Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114964	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, the report also lists the expenditures incurred, thus entering the material expenditures and storage services of goods of strategic goods worth 9 million and 840 thousand kuna. So one of the directory's jobs is the selection of warehouses that will be able to provide quality care for certain quantities of goods, those are legal entities that have to meet certain conditions and criteria in order to carry out storage and size tasks, the possibility, acceptance, holding, renewal and the like, they also have to contribute evidence of financial stability, but also insurance, insurance, goods. How satisfied are you with the current storage facilities in the Republic of Croatia in this way to be carried out by legal persons and do you think that the Directorate should have more of its storage space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114965	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114966	Thank you. As far as storage space in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, there is plenty of it and it is very good quality. We prefer to store in the directory exclusively in concrete silos because they are, they are much better quality and in terms of maintaining and keeping cereals than in, in this in tin. The criteria and osuaries have already been known for years, what we wanted and we have re-enlisted in the law that for this part of the special regulation, the minister will adopt a special regulation to describe in detail all the procedures as we have so far come to these capacities so that there will be no dilemma in the Croatian public as well as in what way a company has become a warehouse, how much it is paid, under which conditions, what guarantee everything will be prescribed and published in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114967	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So we use our stock at a time of war, major natural disasters or direct threats to provide basic needs for the inhabitants. So we realized in 2020 that it was an epidemic, and then we spent half a billion on protective means, we didn't expect an epidemic, there was an earthquake, there were no tents, containers, etc. We were surprised by the earthquake, and here we are in 2022. Now there's a liter of oil 15 kuna, in 2020 you were getting it seven kunas, last year it was the same price lower than those 15 kunas, it turns out that we're constantly surprised by something. And then the fundamental question is, do they serve the goods of purpose to which they should be served or do we have them so that we have them because you do something retrograde all the time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114969	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114970	You could answer the question. Imagine if there were no deficits, there were no budget deficits and everything was great and we had a budget surplus all these years, probably the stock would be full. So all government, I've been thanking God for 10 years there somewhere I've been sneaking around here by the ministries, all governments have the same problem, they don't have enough financial resources, and when it's as good as you said it yourself when everything's okay when there's a budget debate here none of you in any of the amendments remembers to add a budget to go to the goods supply than everyone for roads, slides, this, this, this, this, you, there, the darkness, the usables, and now we're all surprised how much there is in the goods supply. There's as many as there are, and when the need comes, then the government decides and gets the money and buys it and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114971	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative, Vucimilovic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114972	Thank you very much. Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies who apparently do not know how to write amendments as the respected secretary of state says, and perhaps there would be money in the budget if they bought seven kunas of oil, not 15 kunas, and bought wheat at 1.30 rather than 2,70.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114973	Well, that was a replica, so you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114974	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As you said, thank God there are supplies of goods and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that ensured that this turbulence and heavy 2020. Somehow, he'll make it through it. I am sorry that some colleagues here in the assembly are in no way clear about the public procurement law in which products are purchased when the procurement process is already being called. However, in this report there is one thing that was not the subject of public procurement, and the amount seems rather dramatic, it is in 2020. the amount for air and ship transport and forwarding services totalling 56 million 319 thousand kuna. Your expert opinion would also be whether, then, anywhere in the world, air and shipping could be purchased at a cheaper price for the transport of huge quantities of technical equipment and protective equipment arriving from China to the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114975	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114976	Thanks for asking. Given that it was serious quantities and that Croatia does not have in its fleet aircraft that could carry containers in which it was located, we could only use those companies in the world who could then and for all we had heard from the people who were flying and who know the good situation on the market of that time that amount was seven, seven, seven serious transports from China to Croatia simply stood as much as they were paid. And here I have nothing to add and take away for it there are traffic witches if someone doesn't understand someone's interest and I think they'll get the same answer we got.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114977	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114978	Your Honor, Secretary of State. How many supplies were ready may well have been seen after the earthquake in Banovina where in the first few days, if there were no naked people and there were no fans many would have stayed hungry. But that's what it's all about. I wonder if you can answer me if you have information, how much today we have more food supplies than a year ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114979	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114980	Thanks for the line. As for that finding of yours that we weren't anywhere, and the others were, I absolutely support all those who came there and the respect, the stock supplies were there ready as a stuck rifle and reacted when they needed to. We're not the ones who're gonna force the trucks down and say here's the stock they came in, and in the meantime, there's plenty of help. We are a rational institution that listens to the institutions of this state, which is civil protection, headquarters and everyone else, and we reacted when we were called. We 18 are not an army that walks the field, but we are the ones who do business when 400 and some members of civil protection professionals and those amateurs call us. And as far as stockpiling is concerned, we're 2020. We've been filled in 48% now and we've filled 67 at this hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114981	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114982	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. For 2020 Baseline financial statements, balance sheets, income and expenditure reports, receipts, expenditures, value change report, volume of liability assets and, within the legal period, provided the prescribed forms to the competent ministries for the purpose of drawing up a consolidated report, the Financial Agency and the State Audit Office. The test's done. The lion's work at the covida-19 pandemic in the earthquake affected areas and all 18 people employed by your principalship. I congratulate you on that and thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114983	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114984	I thank you for the card I just have to tell you that I wish there were 18 people. Two are on permanent leave, when and when someone else gets sick, so there's never been more than 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114985	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114986	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State is the fact that the human heart is never satisfied, so neither is our opposition. Whatever we do is never good. When we had a problem starting a pandemic why our healthcare professionals don't have our equipment, why don't they have everything they need for... Some have even denied it, especially those of the MOST that there is no pandemic, there is nothing to be vaccinated, there is nothing necessary, everything will pass by itself, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we've shown a little bit that we can, we know how to get it. Now it's time as generals after the battle over everything, and now it's about the stock. They know everything when it's over. And now the question of whether or not these stock stores of ours, we see that we're doing it by law from the time of the Racans. And for 19 years, there was no problem. Here's to the 20th problem, which we're going to have to change right now. We'll change. But that moment of functioning of ours... Here's a chance to clear everything up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we really have any secrets or do we really do things that are controlled by even audits? And today we're about to... who make us really do something we can't do, that everything is a disaster and that nothing's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114987	Only before you respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure has the respected representative Selak Rasdic raised. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114988	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. We have not denied the pandemic, we have responded to your suspension of the legal order during the pandemic, which has enabled you under the designation of secrecy and still allows for already proverbial wealth that we can only hope will end up in Remetinco, as has been the practice of individual HDZ ministers so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114989	It was a replica and not too correct, so you'll get a warning because it's a replica. And being incorrect is another thing. Here's my colleague, Boric, who's been injured by the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you, let's stop this. It's the last violation of the Rules of Procedure I'll accept. I'm gonna hang up, I'm gonna break up as soon as I see this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and I'm gonna make a note of each other. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114990	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238. Col. Rasudiæ degrades us in Croatia to the democratic community and claims something that has not been claimed for two years as other colleagues claimed that the pandemic and the Coron... Let him look at the records of one of his colleagues from the river, and then explain it to me further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who did what showed time. They did not want to invite citizens to the vaccination because they felt that it did not exist, until they themselves ended up in health institutions, and then the healthcare professionals were good, and the supplies allowed them to be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114991	Okay. Like I said, it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Please, Your Honor, Secretary of State respond to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114992	Thank you. When we gave the last major audit in the directorship a few years ago on the subject of the work and directorship, when it was solely a financial type of audit, it gave an unconditional opinion to the directorship which, as well as to me, was a confirmation of the time I was director. This same audit took a lot of time, I'm just going to read so I don't make a mistake, she gave 7 recommendations and 11 orders, she dealt with only the efficiency and management, the efficiency of the stock and the management. All these 7 recommendations and 11 orders we responded, wrote when and how and at what time we will solve them. And the audit itself asked us to do something by the end of this year, something even up to 2025. We're all what we said we were gonna do and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114993	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114994	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. There's a lot of people here calling for some kind of secret information why we don't have them. I think the biggest secret of this moment is where the 30 parliamentary deputies who signed this initiative to even discuss it. We discussed this a month ago, and it was clear, we made one recapitulation. The government has made a decision that with 600 million, that is to say, additional stock reserves, that the Stock Reserve Directorate does not buy out surpluses on the market that are found regardless of whether it's cattle, food or anything. But for me, there is still an enigma where the 30 brave heroes who sought this debate, and they disappeared without a trace, and we see neither their faces nor their looks. That's what I want to know. I mean, maybe you can't answer me, but here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114995	I don't know if a respected secretary of state has anything to answer or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114996	Well, I always have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114997	Then they'll have a replica of the respected representative, Vazčak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114998	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State when we talk about cereal, it's constantly communicating, and the fact is that we're enough and thank God that's the case. But in view of all the events around us, the events in the countries of Europe, although we have sufficient quantities, when there is a crisis of supplies from another country, for example, one Germany, Austria, why don't we come here and pay if you need four, five kunas per kilo. And of course the seller would rather give at that price than here at the current two-and-a-half kuna. So I ask you, therefore, whether you are considering not necessarily banning exports but limiting the amount to be exported in order to actually keep the price of the product and to be sure of your domestic supply and to ensure our supplies at as reasonable prices as possible so that we do not simply lead to the fact that what we do not need to be destitute is ultimately or to be debilitated or that we pay it significantly more than is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u114999	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115000	Thank you. As far as our grains are concerned we have 63,000 tons of wheat, 30,000 tons of corn, the government has ordered us to buy another 10,000 tons of wheat and up to 100,000 tons of corn. That's what we'll buy now when it's best, and that's when it's harvest. We'll buy at the market price so it doesn't make any difference who comes from, from, from the outside and wants to take our wheat out from us. We'll all have to buy them the same. Corn, wheat, corn, wheat is a stock market and no other price will appear in the competition than the one that is marketable at the time when it is paid and obtained. We have nothing to think about here but simply buy it, we follow the trends, if God didn't give up what you said, then we'd react just like the rest of the countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115001	Thank you, we will stop for an hour to welcome the diplomatic gallery is the chairman of the European Integration Committee of the Parliament of Georgia, Mrs. Maka Botcherishvili with the delegation and we will welcome it. Dear Representative Zekanovic has a replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115002	Dear Secretary of State, I'll try more questions in a minute. You mentioned 63,000 tons of wheat, 30,000 corn, if I remember correctly, there will still be 100 thousand tons of corn, if that's enough for this coming crisis where I'm reading here today on portals that are relevant because of the Russian blockade, millions of people around the world could starve, so here, calm us down. And I'm curious when there was an earthquake in Petrinja was a big problem with the cabins and those containers, they were bought, now there are 1,000 if I'm not around to be wrong. What is it, how many houses do we have in relation to, for example? in Austria, Germany, Italy, is that, in relation to the number of inhabitants and surfaces and our needs enough or do they still have more? Here, let's see where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115003	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115004	As far as these grains are concerned, I agree with you that everything we plan to buy will be enough and we will follow, and since we have everything we have when the cereal is at stake, I don't think we have any reason to worry. And as far as the containers are concerned, there are 1.154 now. Now let me tell you that I know how many Austrians and others they have, but unfortunately they certainly have less per capita than we do because they didn't have this disaster that we have now. So now we have enough containers. There's also a house and everything else that isn't owned by the principal. So it's not the only number 1.154, there's more than that. And we'll do everything that when this is all gone to maximum that number, those containers are left in our warehouses and God forbid it's ready because when we bought them, there's no point in spending them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115005	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115006	Thank you. So most MPs deal with this report in terms of what it has or does not have, and I would draw attention to who decides and discusses what. In fact, in the introduction report you stated that it was in accordance with Article 8. The Law on Strategic Stocks Croatian Assembly appointed members of the Council of the Order 3 parliamentary representatives and 2 prominent public experts in the area of the economy, so the members of the Council in 2020 were Ante Sanader, Anja Simpraga, Milan Vrkljan, Slavko Perica and Mladen Šurbek. Furthermore, the report does not mention this in a single word. There's no record of what they've been counseling, what they've suggested, if they've met at all, if they're alive? Can you tell us a little bit more about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115007	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115008	Thank God living, healthy, happy, meeting, agreeing with these reports that came before this esteemed home and that unanimously. So I don't have anything else to say or add, so here's one member of the council just got out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115009	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state is certainly an important topic, I would say especially in the moments of certain threats, and unfortunately of them have been in these past two years and too many. The question to me is that which is affecting the issue of national security, and it is certainly very important to consider reading the signs of time in the continued acquisition and renewal of goods, so I wonder whether you may be in coordination as at least an advisory body or an institution such as the Croatian military, police, the Ministry of Health, emergency services such as civil protection and all those items that they make, are you perhaps with them in some kind of coordination with the purchase of certain products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115011	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115012	Thank you. You mustn't say it so shyly if we may be, of course, in coordination. I mean, the principalship would just get this one special in creating the balance sheet. Without all those names you've listed, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance has no balance because we simply don't want to make that document alone. And now this when the law comes to this esteemed home, or second reading, and when it is adopted, the first idea is that, the first thing after that, is to create a new balance. You will see in the new law we have accepted more or less everything that you parliamentary deputies have been from the opposition's ranks, whether from the ranks of the authorities we have proposed, we have accepted everything. This and, and then we stick to that order as it is in law, and one of them is balance. And on the balance sheet, all those bodies that you've listed must also make proposals and consent. Only in agreement does that balance be sent to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115013	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115014	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with the principal. At first, I would like to say why Croatian sovereigns launched this initiative to discuss today's Stock Stock Report. Croatian sovereigns together with what counterpart Ivanovic would say 30 heroes, and we believe that this is important, we believe that at the moment it is extremely important when the whole world faces an energy crisis to see if we have enough of these key goods in stock. We now hear from the respected secretary of state that in 2020 they were 48% full, and now at 67%. It's not exactly 100%, and we see the times we live in. We witness daily the gatherings, we are in a period of extreme uncertainty as the war rages in Europe and we are in a period of uncertainty in two of the most important segments, which are energy and agriculture, or the food sector. Croatia produces more than enough grains and olives, but the fundamental question is do we have enough of these products and what is the situation in silos? That's the key question. There is a harvest before us, and will what happens every year happen, which is that 10 days after the harvest our silos are empty, or will there be 400,000 tons of wheat in these silos as long as it takes and how much is enough for the needs of the inhabitants of Croatia? Let's not kid ourselves that scandals and malversions related to stockpiles are ancient past, this is how we want to be shown in government officials' statements, but after an earthquake in Banovina, the fundamental question is wherever the containers are, where tents, where the aggregates from the stockpiles are, and then we found out that the stock supplies are entrusted even to a group that deals with tree deforestation, they're clean snow and grass, and that's from last year, it's not like that from some long ago. So today there are supplies of some kind of activity that might be called inappropriate. What happened in the past? Even 108 companies, the company damaged the state budget for half a billion kuna, and in this report we see that more than 80 million kunas have claims from that period. They bought goods from stockpiles and never paid for it, companies went bankrupt, the debt was not charged, for crime as usual no one answered, something went off and out of date and recently, so it dragged around in courts quite a bit, and all of it as usual paid by taxpayers. The fact is that for years, we have been acting irresponsiblely when it comes to stockpiles, although these are matters of the most important state interest because, as I have already said, goods stocks are used in times of war, major natural disasters or direct threats to ensure basic needs for residents. We didn't even have a store manager, and pretty much, just recently we got a principal, so from last year on, somewhere from the 6th month of the stock market, they didn't even have a principal. And that something was wrong was clear when the government in the closed session held on 9 March of this year decided on the renewal of stocks of wheat, corn and barley. After that, extraordinary procurement of strategic goods other than corn and wheat was launched in April. Instead of the stock stock being filled last year at harvest time, the government decided only in March this year at multiple prices to restore and fill the stock. In April, corn on the stock market cost 320 euros for a ton of wheat and 360 euros for a ton. And who will now pay and answer for this enormous price difference? They'll pay taxpayers, no one will answer as usual. Maybe if we had a headmaster or a store manager, maybe it wouldn't be like that, maybe someone would start some activities. But the former minister obviously did not do so, and of course no one will answer as usual for this negligence. What can we conclude after these extraordinary supplies? It shouldn't be too psychic and realize that it's not the way it's supposed to be, and here I hear from the secretary of state that they're filled in at about 67% because at such high prices, who would buy wheat, corn, oil if they have stocked up? No one would do that except for the one with the empty stock. It was also said, of course, that everything related to the stock is marked with the label very secret and the law is so, so we're going to respect that, of course. But we also have to be aware that everything that has been obtained to suppress the coronary virus is also marked with a very secret label and we don't know at what prices they've been supplied with and protective means and everything that has been used to contain the epidemic. We're dealing with some indicative figures, and the bill is pretty much, measured in billions of kunas. The legal question is, could he have been smaller? Totally legal. And the fact is that we bear witness to an unprecedented tax press against the cobwebs, according to all those who had to go abroad because they had no business in Croatia because the state budget has to be filled. Now we see that the caterers are on target. But why must a budget be filled at the expense of ordinary workers, and what about all those who cannot prove their origin for their property? There's this tax press and it's not that big, it turns out they're about as protected as a bear and a wolf together. Also now will be spent large, large funds to restore stock stocks because prices have gone to the sky, this should be added of course and that the gas warehouse is empty, the Polish warehouse is filled at 80%, ours is empty, HEP is moving to purchase, guarantee that the government is giving and we are back on the same. If it had appeared in that budget rebalancing, then the deficit would have been over 3%, so it would not have met two conditions for entering the euro zone, not just one as it is now. And again I will return to that fundamental question, which is before us a harvest of barley and wheat, what will the government do to keep 400 thousand tons of wheat in Croatia and not to export? The Minister of Agriculture has already announced that we will be guided by the principle of solidarity as opposed to some other states that are driven primarily by our own interests. But we must also be aware that it is our responsibility. The 36th Treaty on the Functioning of the EU defines what situations these situations are when even a ban or restrictions on exports or exports are allowed and it is a very complicated long-term procedure that leaves quite a room for manoeuvre. The procedure to be launched before the commission has also been launched by Germany once, so there can be, even, a ban on exports can be sought. In addition, the government can introduce the first right because we have extra grain anyway, so if we have a million tons of wheat it shouldn't be a problem for 400 thousand to stay in Croatia. After all, we see that the neighbouring country of Hungary has even a double-price rule, meaning a liter of gasoline for Hungarians and for all others it is not the same. Now imagine that I suggest that in the tourist season there be one price for the local population and the other for tourists, I think the attacks would be from all sides. So the fact is that there's a lot to be done, and we have stock stores at 67%, and that's a fact that we can't get away from no matter how much we want to show that this debate is unnecessary, that it's too high, but it's very important today when the OECD, when the UN is talking about that there might be shortages, that there might be hunger in parts of the world, I think this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115015	Thank you. Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115016	Of course, it is important that we have stockpiles, but it is important that we fill these stock stocks because the only thing we have ever seen as a constant in HDZ management of this crisis is an attempt to impose a permanent state of emergency with the aim of suspending the legal order and making possible past public procurement and under the designation of secrecy different trade, the acquisition of supply supplies of medical equipment and everything else in the way it suits someone and which is not subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I will, in that sense, ask some of the prices of what has been obtained for the supply supplies to show where this has been evaluated, and what is interesting is that it is not a current problem that is potential for this covid crisis whose epilogue we will only see and the question is, since everything has been purchased under the public procurement code and past the Public Procurement Act, we now hear that from now on it is going through public procurement, I am interested in what it means from now on, whether this is the moment that the Secretary of State is standing behind this pay phone, whether it's from someone else yesterday, from the day after tomorrow, which is the government's decision to which the Secretary of State is called when it is said to be now because we are still going to get a public order anyway, do we always go to, whether it's someone's arbitral decision or government because, as far as I am aware of the last decision of the government that we have discussed it in March 2020. when the supply of medical equipment and everything else necessary for the covid crisis is placed under the designation of secrecy and past public procurement, and I have not heard that decision suspended. When we talk about prices are not the only prices of those oils that have been withdrawn and through the texts in the media, so we have come up with an absurd situation that for the supply supply of oil that can be found cheaper in retail sales, it is almost worth more to send employees to take baskets and go to the store themselves than to conduct different tenders at which they will not achieve prices anyway, a wholesale price which one state should ensure that something and saves when it must already purchase so many quantities, but someone may say oil is not the case now, although Croatia is producing enough oil, the question is whether they will export it, so we will eventually have a shortage, but it is not our problem with oil production, this more open question of where do we have so many prices? We have other interesting items here, let's say, when we look at this report for 2020, when we look at that list of goods and services that have been purchased, which is not attached to this report, but you have to go to the supply directory pages to get to it. So let's say it's 2020. The pasta was purchased for 12 kuna per kilogram and obtained 10 thousand pounds and totaled 120 thousand kuna. What kind of pasta is 12 kuna per kilogram? When I talked about the Gaud Gata affair and warned that a kilo of gauda for civil protection as part of the department of supply supplies at the price of 80 kuna, I received a cynical explanation that it was because it was being supplied to Gaud in the ballots. Of course, when you go a little deeper into the story, you will discover that you had, imagine only one offer for that same cheese, because there is obviously one siren in the Republic of Croatia, and there is only such a price per kilogram for Gauda that we need in our ballots. Well, if a kilo of pasta costs 12 kuna, and today on the market at a time of crisis this is 2020, you have pasta for 8, 9 and 10 kuna in all retail chains in the Republic of Croatia, then there is a legitimate question as to how this pasta is packed. I'm sure he's not in the ballots, and maybe he's in the fussils. Maybe every fusil has its own golden pillow, so we can cook one at a time. I don't know what the Civil Protection Directorate needs when it comes to pasta, but maybe they like some sort of partial, special package that's twice as expensive as the usual one that's at a retail higher price present at the store. However, further research on this problem has led us to the situation that these same prices were written in 2016 from the same producer who were twice as expensive as retail prices in shops when we talk about pasta. How's that? Why? Why is goods obtained at that price? How the state can't reach here we'll be so modest so I'm not going to say a lower price than a retail price, but at least a price like a retail price. If the problem is storage, then it must be clearly indicated, and we year by year in these stock reports we read the floscules about the improvement of storage facilities, which is obviously not the case. Because if someone charges you a warehouse through this price, then you ask a legitimate question as to how in the Republic of Croatia in such a long-term perspective, I am paying attention to the problem of pasta in 2016 that persists, and again it is one of the same bidders, imagine the curiosity of this 2020. So, no sign of anything, nothing to bear fruit. We will pay the pasta at a price that one considers appropriate, and obviously nobody cares because here is when we warned from this same pay phone that potentially the largest malversion in the Republic of Croatia has ever been made in view of the amount of medical equipment purchased under the designation of secrecy and past public procurement and we have come to the conclusion as the club MOST to take down this label and return to public procurement no one cared how much these prices were, although the tests paid twice as expensive, although you had come forward in the media about why our companies did not know why their offers were not for the purchase of medical equipment, although you had connected HDZ nephews of prominent HDZ members who had created companies overnight that produced medical equipment, etc. Nothing brought fruit. And when we warned that a huge amount of money was going away because it was empty and it couldn't be controlled, here's the only thing we can see right now is the epilogue. It is not Croatia but Poland, the progress is that Croatia has at least co-signed to request a revision of the EU's vaccine procurement contracts because we are getting far greater quantities than we need and we are spending huge budgets on it. So when we're talking about stockpiles, two things should be different. It is one thing that we expect these stocks to be full and timely in view of the crisis ahead of us, and the other is that we expect, given this same crisis and the deficit of budgetary resources, to be obtained at a reasonable price, otherwise the issue of corruption and guessing is raised. If some things are unusual in those reports that we're investigating further, because this isn't a report. This can be called an ingredient. Well it has several dozen pages, it is in some way given that it is a crisis year as a report and offensive to the Croatian Parliament. So these supplements that we're asking about the question, we need to get a clear answer on how these prices came about? Is it really such a bad offer on the Croatian market that no one wants to make investment deals with the state and that at the level of the monopoly, they can condition the price they want, which can grow almost to the sky. Once again, I will mention that only 58% of the locations were present next to the list committee, storekeepers and employees of the Department of Stocks and this is justified by the pandemic covid-19. So, even the proper control of what we own in stock was not carried out, almost half of it was missing. When we know what happened before, how many goods were missing, and that these deficits are not yet fully compensated, the legitimate question arises, not only will these supplies be full, but do we even know how much we have, or if the Directorate was not in the warehouse who will guarantee that these numbers are correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115017	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Zarko Tušek, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115018	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club and, in a way, as chairman of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, but only to introduce the three thematics that have been imposed here in a political discussion. The first thesis on the rush that followed the initiative of a group of MPs is being discussed with this report. This report has already been discussed by colleagues and colleagues at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, a public meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Some of the members who are talking about the initiative today were present at that meeting of the Committee on Economy. Any representative could have been present who had an interest in discussing goods supplies at that meeting of the Committee on the Economy. In public space for at least half a year and more debate on any controversial element of this report if it was really an interest, and if it was an interest to impose it now as a political topic, not to realize that it is indeed something that has already been in public space since the 9th month of the past year, it is again some, in some way another level. As regards the situation and the monitoring of the situation, etc. on whether parliamentary representatives are involved in monitoring the situation I can tell you from the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the members of the economics administration we had on the subject of the state of the energy and security of the supply of energy about a month and a half ago the thematic session where representatives of all political positions of the Committee on Economy and some representatives outside the Committee on the Economy were present and where we unanimously made the decision, i.e. A conclusion that we support all the information then given to us by the Honorable Secretary of State from the position of security of supply and the amount of energy. So we can't even put it in the context of some kind of political struggle. And as for the purchase and the fact that something always surprises us, I would like to answer the same question today. So imagine colleagues and colleagues that in 2019 at that time, at about an average price of 35,000 kuna, someone pointed out the initiative to supply some 3,000 containers. First, the funds were not provided, and second, do you really think that someone would accept it as something that was opportunized and necessary in the context of some kind of threat that we couldn't even talk about at the time. And spend some 70 million kuna on the supply of containers in 2019 at the price it was then. Of course, it's bigger today, given all the circumstances, but in such a way no one realistic can plan anything. So there's just some things that get a little demystified. I'll go back to the report itself, to what's in it metrically and what's important, the important things that need to be highlighted without repeating myself too much. At the meeting of the Committee on Economy, an important debate was held on significant costs in the context of the transport service, even though we have already debated, repair and rental bottles for medical oxygen, which amounted to around 56 million kuna. We should again point out that this proposal was indeed an emergency air transport which was almost and impossible to obtain, and we consider it to be a success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the goods supply itself. That this was about the comprehensive cost of forwarders, we're talking about the period when we had total lockdown, when it was almost impossible to get, secure on the market timely purchase, and supplies of equipment and other goods. So that moment in the context of price, I don't think we should be polymizing. As far as the earthquake was concerned, the stock stock was ready, as far as we could be prepared for such an elemental disaster. Intervention was spot-on. Population care equipment. Delivery of residential containers in the area of the municipalities of Marija Bistrica and the City of Zagreb has been made. I would point out that stock stocks also had extraordinary costs in the event of an earthquake, which is the cost of housing affected by the earthquake at the Student Centre and in Terme Jezerica, and we must also consider this at the expense. This part about the income and expenditure balance, I'm going to skip it because I noticed that it was becoming more or less the secretary of state clearly, clearly explained. We are aware that the balance is constantly being filled out, and therefore the funds foreseen by the state budget are also used to fill in everything that is necessary, what is planned and what is entered into the annual programme. I'd also like to point out the donations mentioned in the directory report. The donations in nature concerned humanitarian aid on the basis of the 3 decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the delivery of goods from strategic stock stores to the Caritas of the cross-supervised diocese and the Croatian Red Cross, thus ensuring in cooperation with these institutions the needs of our families' most economically sensitive. Something was said about storage, etc., it should be reiterated in terms of the efficiency of the business and the quality of the stock supply business that they place a special emphasis on the selection of warehouses and this by selecting quality companies and measures to protect state property is the possibility of estrangement and distortion of its quality. The renewal of the goods of the strategic stock is carried out with the guarantee of the bank and the debtors. The operations of the storage of goods shall be entrusted to legal persons who have to meet clearly certain conditions and criteria for the execution of the storage but also to prove that they provide evidence of a stable financial business of the company as insurance instruments. Storage contracts shall be updated regularly, and supervision of compliance with contractual obligations shall be carried out throughout the year by verification... goods, quality and usability and conditionality of its accommodation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be pointed out that we have already had in our first reading the proposal of the Strategic Stocks Act, which is a completely new text which will actually be something quite different to what we have since 2002, so all the shortcomings that have been observed all these years in the system will go through. Which have been observed through these huge elemental disasters and the crises we've been in. Of course, every system in such crises reacts in the way that is least, best possible. Of course, in such systems, such crises also show certain errors in the system and certain things that need to be changed, and in that sense this law will sort it out in some way. It is also important to say that it will address the subject of the public or the classification of certain data in the supply system, which has also been discussed today with regard to the State Audit Report on the operation of the goods supply of the Republic of Croatia. That's so much from me. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I really do not believe that this is a subject on which it is particularly necessary to politicise, in particular, not about some moments that have been completely clear and which have been fully accessible to the public, colleagues and colleagues. If someone considers it professional to be below as a parliamentary representative to assess how much the price is for a particular item and whether there should be 2 liters of oil more or less and he believes that he is precisely the measuring person to judge about it, I would say that this is not something that is acceptable to the HDZ Club of Representatives. The HDZ Representatives Club itself will accept this report, which is in regular procedure and is not subject to any special haste. It was held at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament as it was every year, as we expect for the 2021 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115019	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Branko Grcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115020	So the fact that we're discussing the 2020 report and that simply the topic isn't really current in a certain way and it's talking about its significance at this point, we're just talking about the report, right? However, behind this is hiding a much more important topic and problem and perhaps from there since the Homeland War this topic has not been more important than it is now, so the circumstances are such that the really issue of commodity supplies is very important in terms of ensuring some elemental needs both in this part of food and in energy, so I think that the topic deserves both attention here in the Parliament and the whole public. I say again, what was in 2020, was, so here in the report we see what was dominant, were dominant procurements related to the crisis caused by Covid and, of course, by earthquakes, at the beginning of the year and at the end of the year. Everything else deserves so much attention as it is about really significant figures from that year that are more multiple than it was in previous years, and therefore I really can't judge what colleagues and colleagues have been saying so far, what was with public procurement, whether there were problems in public procurement, with prices, with this, with what, I don't have that information, here and the audit report is sort of classified and secret, so we won't discuss it here and really here, very, very, very hard to make any conclusions so, I would say lightly about how these processes were going. What we see, we see here in the report, there are serious purchases done, so it's hundreds of millions of kunas, first of all, protective equipment in terms of the protection against the virus that destroyed the whole world during this period, probably something similar we expect in 2021. What might be information that we need to be interested in at this point is the answer to the question that the secretary of state has given, and that is what the current fill-up of the stock stocks is compared to the programs and plans, means strategic plans to fill in. The capacity, as I understand it in 2019, was about 47% and 2021. 67% or 67%, Secretary of State, is now full? ... Now the filling, yes, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that would be information about current filling, 67%, which says there's still work to do because I'm saying, we're living in something more insecure or more important insecure times, and it would be good for the state and in this segment to make an effort to get the strategic stock filled up to a sufficient extent. What's voltile in this whole stock structure, we see that it's energy traffic, so energy is rapidly sold, obviously and quickly and supplied and filled. It remains this issue of filling gas supplies, which the government is obviously taking into account and giving a certain emphasis, which we saw in the rebalancing of the previous one, but I say, there is, of course, hanging in the air that will be the final amount that will be placed in filling the gas supply, whether that 400 million euros plus guarantees or something more, we'll see below this year and we'll see anyway on the rebalancing of someone who's going to happen there in the fall, and we'll probably have full information about that too. What should be particularly pointed out here is the problem of these claims that the Directorate has, so here is the fact that in 2020, that this amount of claim was almost doubled, if I'm not mistaken, which naturally turns on some red light, I don't know what happened afterwards. How many of these disputes and these problems have been resolved and the extent to which these claims are ultimately charged. So from the point of view of a good master, it would be very important to do everything possible to protect the interests of the state in this regard and to collect as much of these claims as possible. When you look at the structure of the supply of strategic goods, it was expected, meaning some strategic food resources, such as wheat, corn, meat, meat processing, sugar, oil, etc., it is quite expected and normal, plus I say, this energy part and, of course, protective means, especially in the fight against floods, fires and other disasters that can happen to us. So here, I say, here, very briefly about it, I don't see any particular reason to spread some big debate about this topic, it would be much easier to discuss the current situation, if we had information about the current stocking, if we saw to what extent we met the plans in structural terms related to the recovery of the strategic stock, I say, and we'll probably still have a chance to discuss it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115021	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115022	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So we had a debate on the Committee on Economy. The economy is the home working body and the debate on the report on the state and management of stock stocks along with the financial indicators for 2020 we had on the board. Those of us who have a little longer memories or a little longer know that the rules of procedure have changed in a way that individual reports go to committees only, watching is in the assembly, but thanks to part of the activities of colleague Vucilović who, along the way, is told and a member of the Committee on Economy has come to the plenary session, which I appreciate is good. So I always appreciate that it is good to discuss at the plenary session some things that are extremely important and extremely important for two reasons. At a time when ruling is doing well, it is good to praise and to show good, and that the opposition has a chance to ask, ask, emphasize and say what it is. Like I said when I asked for a break on behalf of the 2020 Club. is one of those years we call it more so we always have some modernism, so we call it challenging years, it was an extremely challenging year for the Republic of Croatia, it was a challenging year in the part where we talk about the crown and the covid both for Europe and for the world, and when it comes to the earthquake it is extremely challenging for the Republic of Croatia because it really always shows you where your system is missing. When we talk about stockpiles and the general story with it, there are always certain questionnaires above our heads because when you look at a little history in history there's been from everything and everything, and that's why I don't need and I'm not ready to look at the current situation with those eyes 15 or 20 years old, I want to see today's situation with the eyes that are today. What is good to point out is that it is good, and what is bad or that I have a certain skeptic or dilemma equally point to that skepticism or dilemma. My first specific contact with the topic of stockpiles, i.e. the topic of stockpiles, was when the great flood hit Croatia when the importance of the role and what should be done and I must say that we were learning some things there. It's not good to keep learning, it's good to use some of the lessons learned. So, in 2020 comes the crown, I come covid, I have to get everything that's related to it, it's shown that, I'm one of those who's kind of advocacy and I always try to get from this payphone and say that it's good that Croatia is an EU member, that it's much better to be in society of successful, richer than anywhere in the tail of all that together, so at that point you could buy what you could at any price. And let's be realistic here, so we can do this with these shoes and these glasses, so why not this or that? It was exactly what it was. Now we're coming to what needs to be asked questions somehow and I need you to tell my people not to have to learn again from the beginning of some lesson that we've been through. 2022. On February 24th, Russia attacked Ukraine, everyone expected it would not happen but it happened. Let's be realistic about who will have the greatest damage, of course except for the Ukraine itself which has been devastated and is already devastated which with all of its processes has stopped, and some processes will be much longer, will have the damage of Europe from one let's say very few things. The first thing, all of those projects that are related to green technologies, green industry, new jobs, some new shifts and new steps will be in the second plan, you will see, all the budgets that will be for next year or the rebalancing that are going to go, go into the sense of the next, the first topic will be about restoring and defining defence conditions, so to protect so the Ministry of Defence will be you, no matter how and in which country it is defined, through which there will be enough filling of the item, and then everything else and topics that will be energy and food. And it's not weird, and we don't have to wonder why we want to discuss this report for 2020 and point to such things. The topic of energy, we had a thematic session of the Committee on Economy on which we asked a series of questions and received a series of answers. The questions we were basically asking were about fuel, it was about gas and there were third topics about electricity and everything else. I was personally satisfied with all those answers we got. Somehow I have to admit a little bit and calm down when it comes to oil you're here in a story where some other countries are. When it comes to electricity, it always shows that it depends on it raining, so it's good, so it's going to fill up the accumulation lakes and somewhere it shows that 25% of its electricity, and this is either from the Nuclear Krško or its own production, when it comes to gas then it's the same and the inscriptions were in the paper and we've got assurances that we have a good production of domestic gas, a LNG terminal that was saved until a report came from a member of the body that was reported by Plinacro. So, there's no report sucked out of the little finger that pointed to two problems, one problem is filling the environment that was at that point, or we don't know what the situation is at this point, filled 19% takes him two or three months to fill up to a certain reserve. The same way should be the lease at the LNG terminal and those two key questions that I think should be asked and which should be asked what happens to gas, what happens to gas, and whether the HEP that received the debt, which received the money for which the funds were secured and through the budget rebalance of the Ministry of Economy are secured funds for all those preparations, HEP are secured, which he made, because waiting for some other time and waiting for some kind of what would be in the autumn that is the code you have in front of you glass ball, so you are returning. I'm saying that today from these shoes when we're discussing something that we discussed two or three months ago, we're discussing differently, not saying that something we discussed when not even the war in Ukraine was some sort of thought and noun and quite different and we're coming up with a basic topic of food. We are all reading and watching what is happening, what the Ukrainians at this point are having negotiations on how to extract the grain they have, or the wheat they have. They're full of silos and say they can't fill their silos anymore. They have ships that are full of grain in which if they've stood so long it's clapped and you can throw it into the sea, it won't be for cattle food, and now, of course, there are legitimate questions that we're asking ourselves and we need each other together because it needs to be common interest, to set up and get answers, so that the stock reserves in Croatia are filled up this year, that we have in the budget more resources that we need to have to fill, that we actually have certain security, even if there's something security in memory, the price at which it goes is the subject that we can discuss. Why and I think that I, I always sort of put myself in executive shoes, when you ask the question why you're getting at this, and not at that price, is the logical answer of the secretary of state, I had to conduct public procurement, in public procurement I had it, I got the price and by that I did, and I couldn't conduct public procurement until I was provided with money in the budget. What I'm reading through this report and what I think we should all read together is next. Let's not solve the problem at 12 and 5, let's at least try to solve problem 5 to 12, let's try to appeal that through a rebalancing that will definitely come in the autumn there is more means to ensure that our stock supplies are filled in to actually get in, somehow and in reflection a kind of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115023	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, there will be a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115024	I thank the chairman. So, today, when we discuss the state of supply, we can't remember that maybe just a few years ago this topic was beneath the political radar and that we have in some way lived in Lalaland as far as such matters are concerned and that since 2020. In fact, this issue becomes one of the key political issues, because in fact, we have seen it the hard way, the security of our citizens. When we talk about 2020. I will note that just then it was seen that perhaps what was an assessment of the needs and what were, which were realized the needs in the strategic goods stocks proved insufficient in the event of the earthquake first in Zagreb, but especially after the second earthquake in the area of Bania because we saw that we didn't actually have enough capacity for the ad hoc accommodation of all the unhappy and all those who at that time had lost their roof over their heads, that we had no guaranteed question of how we would supply tents to the heaters, that of course the military had to jump to help, but that there were actually no emergency foreign interventions and donations that were also a question of whether we could at all provide in those first months not only accommodation and temporary accommodation but a question and nutrition, you know how much goods had actually come into donations from both Croatian companies, but also abroad, so it was also a question of whether this issue of goods and actually being prepared to do not really go to the wrong; As this all coincided with covid, perhaps even at that point it was not crucial, but today it is becoming a key issue of general supply and would it happen to us, what would actually happen if we had another crisis or another disaster that if it were stuck to this existing supply problem and which is growing, therefore the risks of food supply, but also energy and energy, what would it really be and how much Croatia would need or how much would be prepared. And now I have to say here that in addition to this question of how truly prepared we are for these situations, how prepared we are for a situation that might come to us in the fall and next spring in terms of both supply and possible case of further accidents? The second question raised is the issue of governance in fact of the strategic commodity supply, the issue of management of the strategic commodity stock and efficiency is the issue addressed by the state audit in its report. That report was declared a secret, a report or a high degree of secrecy he was given to us parliamentary deputies, so we were able to see the information contained in it, as well as the findings and opinions, but we had to sign that we would not talk about it and that we would not, that we would not provide that information. I must say that as regards certain data contained in this report, this may be somewhat justified, however, that in the section relating to the findings and opinions themselves, the textual findings and opinions of the state audit on the way in which the strategic stock reserves are managed and managed, that in that part should be made available to the whole public because there is no real risk of any consequences, and in that sense we are as a Green-Left Block Representatives Club together with the SDP and have made one conclusion with this Report that this issue could actually be discussed here in the Assembly in terms of quality of governance and efficiency of the system. Of course, we do not have a lot of illusions and hope that it will be adopted, but we believe that it is necessary to distinguish in such reports what really sensitive data really are, and what is actually an information that is of public interest and where public interest tends to reveal certain things. Furthermore, regarding this Report to continue, in fact, on counterpart Anko Mrak-Taritash, who spoke about the need for different food security in Croatia, I would like to note that we spoke here in the autumn and we are now saying again that we really need to change the system of planning in agriculture and ensure that there is more self-sufficiency in certain food products, and as far as energy is concerned, we have seen what it means, now we have seen what it means when part or significant part of the market is dependent on some external factors and we have learned, I hope, that this is not a good position in the position of such global turmoil. However, we continue to allow key sectors to be brought under control, market control as well, but strategic control of private companies that some of them don't even know real owners, so here I am again, as I said today, so other than that oil companies are raising their profits to the fact that their excise duties are being reduced, etc. And that the prices of oil and oil derivatives are rising on the global market is also valid for the gas business. And what did we have last year? Last year, we had a situation where the PPD, for example, grew income to, inconceivably, I mean, look at your 2021 report, so you'll see that last year that this company earned 21 billion kuna, that out of it and that it came to them, that, no, no, okay, income, well, now I'm going to say what's coming out of it, so what it gets out of it is 312 billion kuna, which is for some 75, 80 million kunas more than the previous year and more than ever, just to understand each other. Now, what is it that we as a state have to ask ourselves? We need to ask ourselves whether, in these situations, oil and oil derivatives now, as well as the issue of gas prices, have signed a long-term contract with GAZPROM in 2017, which is its actual purchase price of gas and whether it creates an extra profit when it is sold at the prices at which it is sold to Croatian citizens and business entities, because it is actually a price for citizens. Is there any extra profit to be made? Because you see, serious countries really think that way that extra profits are taken through taxes one time. The second question is, how do we let you get into another sector that is crucial to us, we said, energy and we said diet. Today, PPD owner Paul Vujnovac became a member of Forten's administration. So what you have is what happens and what we know from the PPD's investments last year is that there's been a major transformation in that, in the food industry market, and that actually Forten's sale of certain companies, that they end up in hands, whether they're Hungarian or here now in this case and as domestic companies in a way that actually spreads from energy fields to food. And who doesn't understand, who doesn't understand that it's a strategy to gain power, to decide on two key strategic areas for the security of the Republic of Croatia, is to make it simple, stupid. And if we think that both energy and food policy should be left to the market and just watch as it happens, then we really are not able to manage the basic levers of this country and what the state exists for, because the state exists to ensure that its citizens have access to basic goods and resources. Our basic goods and resources are slowly and surely taken over by people or companies we don't even know whose they're owned. And that's something to worry about. And I sincerely hope that the government will soon come out with an assessment of whether additional profits have been generated in Croatia by energy companies, how it will regulate it and how it will prevent a huge concentration of the market in the energy and food sectors from individual players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115025	We move to individual debates and will speak first respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115026	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. They say the timing is very important in life and that when you hit the right time then, it's already half your job. And when we look at this stock market report and what's happening to us with the supply supplies, then we see that they're missing those half-jobs. There's been an earthquake and it's in a seismically active area, although we thought it would never happen, so it's missing everything, but there's a way we patched up. So there's an epidemic that happened in 2020, and this report was being spent on, so a little more than half a billion kuna on it, it was urgent, it was important, it was necessary, it was obtained, well. But that same year, only 12 million kunas were spent on food products. And when the epidemic started, then all of a sudden we all listened to self-sufficiency, self-sufficiency, we had to be self-sufficient, and that was very important. As soon as it calmed down, as soon as these supply chains started again somehow, it was all forgotten. Now we have a war, the Russian Federation has attacked Ukraine, the ships are full, the silos are full in Ukraine, they can't go anywhere, the harvest is there, they don't have anywhere to put the new wheat that's gonna come off, and what we're doing is right. And then you're always saying that later brains, now the opposition is smart when it's all over. So now we warn before, we speak before harvest, keep 400,000 tons of wheat in our silos. Is that so hard to understand? And then we get to another floscule, which is the EU not to, it can't, we're an EU member, a free market, we can't. Well, as Orban always can, he can do whatever he wants. He can introduce the right to buy first, he can have double prices for gasoline, 9 kuna for Hungarians, for us far more, destroys the EU's foundations and no one else's. Not to say that you sold it to the embargo by 2024, and that same MOL is the owner of INE and then Russian oil that's about $70 per barrel here selling us 13, 14 kuna or how much. So the fact is that some things can be done, the fact is that there are articles in the EU's operating contract that allow even a ban on exports in exceptional situations. If the commission doesn't approve well, but the whole process takes some time, which means we have room for manipulation. And the fact is that we're warning in time because we're in an extremely turbulent, turbulent period. And the fact is from this report that at 91 locations, a list of strategic stockpiles was made without employees of the Department of Stocks or as would be trusted. Yeah, that's it. So we don't know, now the secretary of state says 67%, so maybe it's not so much, maybe it's 50%, maybe 40% we don't know that because even the employees of the department weren't at all places where they were stored, where they're holding strategic stockpiles. And if we take into account all these major irregularities that have led to half a billion outstanding claims, then that control of the stock supply situation would have to be carried out much better, as well as those 17 recommendations, we heard today from the main state auditor who gave it, it points out that supplies should still be managed slightly more effectively. And finally, the latest information presented by Secretary of State Milatić, acting as director, was in charge of the stock until there was a director for almost a year, is that supplies would contain goods that would provide a basic supply of 50,000 for a period of 15 to 60 days. What about the others? I'll just ask that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115027	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115028	Dear colleagues, here's the secretary of state said that the current fill-up of state stock was about 67%, and last year it was at 40%. Do you think that this is enough, given that we are in the midst of a major financial and economic uncertainty especially as regards food products, especially as regards the coming autumn or winter and whether Croatian citizens will be able to sleep peacefully, whether they will be sure that there will be really no shortage of certain food products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115029	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115030	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlichek, for asking, so that's definitely not enough. If we also see this statement from the respected secretary of state that we have, how many residents in which time period we have even stockpiles, that's not enough. And here's what I'm gonna say one more time. So in wartime, war rages in Europe, that's a fact. Major natural disasters or direct threats to ensure basic needs for residents. So I don't want to scare anyone, I don't want to spread any fear, but the fact is that we've established back in these two years that the stock stock wasn't filled in so they could secure this fundamental goal that they serve.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115031	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115032	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues in the presentation of the situation, or from the annual list of goods, we have the information that at 215 is stored, and that it is approximately on, not approximately, but precisely at 124 locations was one of the representatives of the Directorate, so at 58%. We have to be realistic, if there's so few of them and they're working, there's no way they're doing everything, and I'm not going to talk about the year when the crown was, when it couldn't, or everything else. But I must clearly ask myself the question I ask you. If we have this bad experience that we have until 2000, then in 2004, when certain disputes are being held because when you came to a warehouse, you found that it was not there. It seems to me that it would be elemental if at some point it were real Directorship does the job [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and determine the real condition. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115033	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115034	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritaš fully agrees with you, so we often have in the same silos and stockpiles and owners of a agricultural company, so we're just being cut by papers, and the real state can be established by some kind of one, which I know I've been doing at the brewery we had silos and then the only way to determine is if you get up to the top, drop the spaghetti, and then measure whether it's about rollers. Is that how you do it, do you ever get representatives of the principalship? They just look at the papers maybe. The question is, is, at all, where representatives come from, and especially where they are not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115035	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115036	Dear colleagues Vucilović. Here, let me refer to this question of the real situation. If we have information within this report that says that only 58% of locations just slightly more than half of the supply directory appeared and participated in the warehouse check, so it was significantly reduced compared to the previous year due to the epidemic, how can we safely argue that only the principalship can safely claim to know at all what is in those warehouses and can the pandemic be an excuse to appear if other things worked in the society in the warehouses and verifying the stockpiles?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115037	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115038	Thank you, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. So here I'm going to quote from this report means one side on the expenditure side on the name of the transport to work fee was spent more in 2020 than in 2019, although we all know most of the time worked from home. So that's where they came to work, but they couldn't go out to do inventory, they couldn't get out on the ground, it definitely couldn't be an excuse because all the time it could have been done. We have an epidemic of coronaryvirus pronunciation become an excuse for everything, so HZ Infrastructure says they're late for work because there was an epidemic, although we all know that construction worked very well at the time of the epidemic because the works are being performed outside, but that's when a public institution, a state firm, is then a good gold excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115039	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Ivo Milatic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am obliged to react for the sake of the Croatian public because when people who have been doing their job fair for years, some for 30 years and more are going to welcome a pension there, I think I have to say something on the subject. To say that they can't measure in a silo how much wheat and all that, so we all know the geometry of r squared times height that here's the accident and I know it. Well, this one, by chance, we've controlled every location these days, every location means 15, 18 as much as any location these days, complete emergency surveillance by us has been completed. We haven't found a kilo anywhere to miss it responsibly and the report, and therefore we can be free when we make it and give it to this esteemed home and to every parliamentary representative, regardless of what this report will come for this year. So the fact that we didn't get to the covid, we didn't get there clearly because the job was so good that we even got that job done, let alone go into control. But thank God you're not our warehouses how you know how to show them here. When you talk about certain debts and everything else, it's all from those times there until when there were acceptive warrants when there was all that existed. Since 2000. When this law comes into force today, these losses are very small, very few of these losses, and in pre-determined deals we've charged a lot. So every time you talk about losses and everything we ask for and litigation and all that, move it away right away for 20 years, from now, take it a minimum of 20 years away for the sake of the Croatian public because there is a constant impression of some kind of march, some situations that are like this or like this. As for the decision made by the esteemed parliamentary representative Rasdic, she spoke about the fact that I said I had to, 3.6. The government has made a new decision where there is no urgency when it comes to covid, 3.6, so you know clearly when it was. This year, this year now 3.6, and that decision where the rush was expired in February, so actually, from February, there was practically no rush, but because the decision expired, and then there was no point in doing it anymore. But now a decision has been made where only one part of the rush is left if the Banovina earthquake headquarters possibly something urgent turns out to be something needed, but we assume that it will be used completely minimally because as far as I can see and there are no such needs, but it has been left for God not to give up that if there is something to react and that the mobilized forces are doing something and that's the whole story. There have been talks here about both the environments and the gas and everything else, the gas all decisions have been made, over the next ten days the filling of the Environment, the environment will fill up by November 1st, regardless of the fact that it's not the topic of supply, it's the topic of only now the crisis team for gas, and that's the topic of government and that's the topic of energy security. When we're talking about derivatives here, there's been no traffic of derivatives here, we simply get rid of that amount that's necessary for God's sakes, any situation that would have been in terms of strategic stockpiles, like when they were migrants and everything else and the rest and then the derivatives sold out over the past few years, and for them exclusively they bought fire tanks,... The drinking water tanks that are scattered all over the country and this one, and the derivative has a minimum supply of 90 days, so as to the security of supply, there's nothing to be afraid of, God forbid anything would happen, some kind of a short disturbance, we have something to react to, the refinery in Rijeka is doing,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are 416 thousand tons of crude oil that we could do without a problem in our own country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what I'm supposed to say here, not pasta when it comes to 24 kuna pounds of pasta in the store, don't tell the Croatian public that 12 kuna is more expensive than 24, which is a kilo of pasta in the store. And it all comes down to it. Find a public tender, a pasta needs someone to sell to us, keep it in storage, renovate it. Here you go. Look for whoever you want, when there's a next public tender, let him answer. You can't let pasta get eaten by moths.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115041	Thank you. Stay, stay here because there's a couple of replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115042	I would like to know in 2020 which pasta 24 kunas per kilo or 11 kuna, how much was purchased in 2016. Depending on the packaging, depends on the manufacturer and these prices are far more than can be found in stores. I think it's very inappropriate for you to call our thesis flat-rate, given that we've provided arguments here based on what we've read in this report and asked questions about what our mission is. And as for this government decision that you mentioned, here I was just reading, so it's a decision that's been made on 3.6, which makes it possible to get fast supplies for the Sisak-Moslavina County area, so it's going past the classical Public Procurement Act again, which means that it's still not all under normal legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115043	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115044	Well, I told you it was just an earthquake, and rush procurement is not against the Public Procurement Act. A rush to purchase,... Effort procurement [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The early procurement is in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the early procurement of the Solidarity Fund recognised in the refunding of the Republic of Croatia for the costs incurred in the emergency supply. [[Intruder: Please, not from the bench.]] It's not a purchase without any supply, it's an emergency supply. And so, just like that, and as far as I'm concerned, I said that all of you guys were flat-out, it's my right to think that they're getting out of contexts that aren't this suitable time that we're in, that were appropriate to some other time, and that's why I said it was kind of casual, because if you say something, like it was today, and it was 20 years yesterday, and then, by me, I don't know it now, I don't know the second term in the dictionary, but it should be flat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115045	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115046	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, I might have a question or a simple or complicated question, it's simple. So you've got a job in the store today, so at the administration that's dealing with this problem, I'm not sure now, 16 or 17 employees, but there's about 16 or 17. What's my experience is that it's certainly half of them, already looking at one eye for retirement or something else. I'm interested in how realistic it would be to be employees who deal with this problem and that things could work that way. We often in public space, regardless, we can talk about administration employees, about how many there are, we often use the word earrings that I never use, maybe I don't use for the reasons I've worked for years and I know how it works when you want to do your job correctly and that in the public sector you work pretty hard, so I'm curious, the question is relatively simple, maybe the answer is simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115047	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115048	We have as many as we have, in systematicization only a few more people are foreseen. Uh, you wouldn't mind if we had at least a dozen employees, but that's when I guess it'll be easier to explain to everyone inside the whole system when new systems are being done and we're coming and with these people to do, you see, that's how much work we're doing. Most now the problem is actually this generational one, you've detected the problem well, the generation situation rather than the number itself. We simply must now ask for a number of people to hire younger people so that those who will simply retire in time pass on knowledge because it makes no sense when they go to get someone to come and learn again without being taught by anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115049	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115050	Thank you very much. Here's a commendation from the secretary of state for you as an economist to calculate the cylinder volume and I'm glad that you've made an inventory in five months and you know exactly up to the last grain. That's really nice to hear, but you can see that in 5 months you can, and then in a year you couldn't, but good. We have a new director, so she probably wanted to know exactly what kind of situation it is because it's a pretty hot job or what it would say, a hot chair after which many of them ended up in some places with bars, and I'm not going to say what kind of bars, but when we talk about it, that half a billion and what was there by 2004, we're talking about because the report for 2020 means the claims on December 31st, 2020, are 86 959 747.43 kuna and they were mostly made in the period until 2004, so that's what they are. The huge losses that are [[Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. /]] Attending and affecting business [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115051	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115052	Yeah, that's exactly what I said, so they started until 2004, these are the processes from the late '90s that were still rolling until 2002, and then they were stopped by that law, and then the processes, the bankruptcys, everything else, and around everything, you said well to the detectors in 2004 and beyond, and since then, it's been going on. I think I came to the principalship in 2012, when I saw that amount of all the processes I literally told the courts and the authorities to do theirs, and we caught ourselves doing it so God wouldn't let it happen again and thank God it didn't happen. None of that makes any sense but possibly a pre-fashion settlement where we saved more or less, saved 100% of the substances and they were, therefore, no exit is minor so that the Croatian public understands me wrongly, but really minimally amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115053	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115054	Dear Secretary of State, here you have recorded in your statement that you have done unannounced surveillance of all locations these days and that you are responsible for saying that there is not a kilo of flour or any other product missing from the warehouses and that I am glad to hear that all of us still have bitter taste in our mouths since 2010 when several tens of thousands of tons of olive grain disappeared from the student silos owned primarily by the state reserve. How often do you do these surveillance? Are they declared or unannounced, how do you do it? So if you could explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115055	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115056	Thank you. We do surveillance safely once a year in terms of inventory, that's what has to be done and over the years are done and logically to announce yourself because there's no point in announcing yourself, there's no point in going anywhere because if it's about tones, thousands of tons, tons if you're reporting today that you're coming in tomorrow I mean you can't do it overnight this, overnight create and do it. So as far as that goes, it works. And we are simply in a situation where we care that this whole situation is being followed now because in the end we are also aware of the public's interest and that was one of the basic reasons to do it again and look at it so that we can communicate as we do here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115057	Thank you very much. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115058	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, there's something I want to say about this report because first I'm trying to understand the purpose of all of this because everything is a little unusual for me whether I want to admit it or not. We had an ultimate request for an opposition with 30 signatures that we had to discuss this today, very urgently because there is something behind this that no one could possibly determine except for the MPs. We also see today that many people through their thoughts, that through their thoughts, they are floating bars, marices, are constantly having some illusions that all of them should be behind some bars, and the supplies are very suitable for that, so let's put that point on and. In order to say Mažuranić of 100 votes, the vote is not heard. It's simple, or you and there, a little voice, a whiny one. What, are they bothering them, I've been trying to find out, I don't know. Knowing the system of state administration or the importance of supplies within that system, I'm counting on it to be one part of our system of homeland security, which at some point must give the people the basic one if we have a basic accident, which is what we've had, two earthquakes or a flood or a fire or a pandemic, and hence these supplies were purchased, renewed, spent, and all of this seems to me to be a debate on some municipal council when they ask the Chief of Staff, tell me what you bought with funds for I don't know civil protection. He says two shovels, one tent, this or that, three helmets, and now we're discussing it here. We even try to bring people in, responsible people who are here to worry about it into the grid system. Let's see who we see behind bars, who stole a kilo of flour or who stole a vegetarian. I think it's so bizarre that we don't even understand what we're discussing here today except that what it says in the 2020 report, I believe that 2021 will be better than this one, even better. We've had more difficult situations, perhaps, etc., the pandemic was still there and, of course, it bears certain costs. And to compare that to 2014, I don't know when we had 50 million kunas, let's say the expenditure on refurbishing, let's say these supplies, today we have no 500 million kuna, we have an obligation to make the system work. Everything's suspicious to you, too. The cheese we must have bought in 2010 should last until 2040, we won't be spending it, what are we going to do, it could take 30 years. So they do not distinguish the cheese in the leaves from the cheese in the piece, which I know what they want. We hear such debates, it's not just from today, it's from every day. When you ask them what they know, there's nothing here, there's no one. And now we need to fight back here to defend this whole thing, and everything as clear as day, the whole system is working. Here, all the secrets are I mean cleared up at least for 2020, now they say it's 2021 and then they say, and you see what's a little secret there, we'd know what's secret there, what you're hiding there, no. You keep something secret and it's not legal. They'd talk about it. There'd be some rolling around here again, but it's not working. I think the system clearly shows that it works and that from moment to moment we can... If we ask them, and we might need 1,500 containers to keep them somewhere in a warehouse because there's a perception of an opposition that there's a big warehouse I don't know where on the Cereal or in some big space that these trucks are going into and when something needs just exporting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's their perception, not 150 locations, not hundreds of producers who have an obligation to keep something or give something at a given moment, but it's all somewhere in one place, so someone out there is stealing something. I don't think that's how this kind of debate comes out. They don't know the system of state administration at all if you're listening to them. And they're all guilty of something, and in the end the numbers are just positive, I don't see any negative here. What we're going to do now, we're going to commend, we're going to vote against this report, they're going to be against it. You know why? Because they're against everything. So they don't care about this report and the goods they came to discuss today, even the whole 30-year-old company didn't even fit into the assembly because not to be interested in this too much, but let's just ask why you have 5 times more funds in 2020 than in 2019, we forgot the pandemic, how you were doing medical equipment, secretly, immediately suspect, DOV and DORH, so let's move on, so I think gentlemen yes, and when it wasn't, and why not, so I think such discussions are not the level, I'm saying honor the MPs in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115059	She has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Selak Rasdic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115060	Art. In 238, the demeaning of parliamentary deputies, here is fellow Boric, persistently saying that we don't care, that we haven't dealt with this report at all, and that we don't care at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115061	That's not disdain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115062	If it's not a demeaning of parliamentary deputies, I don't know exactly what would be, and we're showing here how much we care because we put this on the agenda unlike you and it's not just a question of how many, and one of us here is worth at least 30 of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115063	How, how?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115064	So, of course, it was a replica on one side, so you're going to get another warning, and the other very incorrectly, as well as the first one, because this story as much as it's worth then we could say anything is, don't, stay away from it, it's not at the level of this home, it's a lot below the level of this home. Replica of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115065	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have seen and heard one of theirs, 30, 30 of ours, but unlike ours, there is one here. Says Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudiæ that it was a demeaning of the MPs, were your words, yes, they demeaned us today I would say, the people who came here honorably and honestly did their job, they signed something, they initiated something, and then they didn't even show up on this thing even though they thought that most of us would end up somewhere in Remetic or I don't know, I don't know where, that didn't happen, of course. This is a serious report, this is a serious subject to be discussed on a serious and over-supervised way, but it seems to me that this time we have shown or the opposition has shown all the inconsistency of the initiatives they are taking here already full of 2 years, and so far none has produced fruit except half an hour here a little dancing here in front of a pay phone somewhere in December 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115066	Dear, honourable representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115067	Thank you very much. I mean, I said what I honestly think because this, accessing one debate to 30 of you, one company to sign on and then three people to come here and talk about crime, and those who are obliged to give them information, write down how many vegetates we have on stock, how much salt, and how much else in numbers they don't, to say, but you're stealing again, but that's not the purpose of this debate, but to see if we still have enough of something and whether as a government, we're still expecting it in terms of what's ahead of us or what we've been through, and what's waiting for us in view of the events around us, it's also a war, it's still a pandemic that needs to be done, we still have a committed state in Banovina, but they don't care, they't shrink everything for the first 5 days, nothing after that's been done, it's, it's been, a serious discussion, justified in relation to these paup to the paup to the state administration, and they have to each government's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115068	Thank you. Respected, respected representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115069	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, listening to your debate, and participating from the very beginning, I can say that the summary of today is that those who have asked for this point in the urgent procedure to come to the agenda that they are satisfied with the report because most of the signatories of those 30 did not even participate in the debate and did not attend, therefore they are probably satisfied when they have nothing to say, and it means when they realize that everything is fine because they probably saw this report then they see that everything is fine and feel they do not need to come and debate because it is difficult for them to praise the report, directorship, Ministry of Economy and Government of the Republic of Croatia. Isn't that a little hypocritical to all those who do their job fairly and consciously, such as the principalship and all the others involved in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115070	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115071	Thank you. Let them think about whether it's hypocritical or not, I certainly know that they won't vote for this because they're not interested and they never will tomorrow if we vote on it, so this debate can end, everyone will say their own, and why it's so I don't know, which is wrong in this report, whether the financial part isn't right, whether the part about the supply supplies, whether one review of everything that's done, they'll say it's not good for us, or if they'll invent that there's not enough towels in the stock, so we're unhappy and we're against it, it's an argument and it's not for us to deal with it, we have our own, and I think these people are doing their job right, and let them keep telling stories, so let them look for these points that they come unprepared or not come.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115072	We'll wait for the ladies to stop talking. Dear representative Vesna Vucilovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Boric, I'm sorry that we made you stay here until half past five and work, but I'm counting on it to be the job of parliamentary representatives, so you shouldn't be angry if you have to work today at half past five, so. And as for these kind of malversions of dishes that we allegedly invent as you say, so here's the secretary of state until 2004, here's the case from 2010 and 2009, 2010 was in court, from the Đakovština silo, a thousand tons of corn and 2,000 tonnes of wheat from the supply supply, so they were detained by Mr. Mijo Matic and Pasko Gaspar, so you see such bars I'm talking about, so when stealing usually ends up in prison, and they were stealing goods supplies and they're in huge quantities, so don't say we're making it up, we're not making it up, they're facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115074	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115075	Thank you very much. If you need to feel sorry for someone, you regret these opposition colleagues who did not come here, not to us who are here and we discuss during the day every day. To say we're sorry or that it's hard for us to be in the Parliament. I'm not, I'm here all day, every day, so you can send it to your colleagues here from the Sovereigns who aren't there or any of the others, because it's become like some kind of communication to you. When I'm inside, I teach everyone lessons, and I'm gone for two weeks, it doesn't matter. We're not gonna talk like that. There are ways we can do better here. And as for bars or anything else, you could still remember a little from 2000. Maybe in the '90s, etc. We're talking about 2020 and it's all clear. And those perceptions you want to create through this kind of discussion allude to what I said, and you don't know the other. You want to deal with human fates, people, you care about supplies, people and everything else that happens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115076	Honorable representative Anka Dark Taritash will speak next.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115077	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I am on this subject, in fact, the report on the situation and on the management of supply supplies for 2020 is now under discussion for the third time. I've discussed it once on the board, I've discussed it on behalf of the club, and now I'm discussing it in an individual debate and I don't find it difficult. I have to admit, in public space, they called me all kinds of names anyway. No one's called me yet, but my colleague, Boric, called me no one, so here I am, as no one, discussing the situation for 2020, and I think we should discuss it. He called, said there's no opposition MPs here at all, and that we're nobody and all together, so that's what those who are there always hear. You know? The fact that no one is heard by those who are sitting and who regularly come, debate, participate in the debates but so much should not be wasted more time, but rather what is the measure should be discussed. My colleagues and colleagues, are we in a situation of war that Russia attacked Ukraine? Do we all have healthy eyes, we read and we see that everyone's talking about the state of alarming in the world, that the situation is so that everyone's wondering if we're not in the hunger phase, is it legitimate that this is, that this is the topic in the parliamentary debate? Legally. Is it legitimate that the ruling say we've had problems, we've got problems, we're working but we're doing great, we're doing great and we're doing great and everything. Is it legitimate for the opposition to ask, "Listen, I don't think that's the case." Why did you do this or what? Only so can one country go into democracy and move on. Just by asking, asking, asking, and saying my people did, and doing it. The harvest is coming, did you fill the silos? You're 67% full. How realistic is it to be filling? How realistic is it to be filling? Is it realistic that for a year, we have a capacity of between 60 and 70% and we'll never get to 100 percent, because it's unrealistic because we don't have money, because we don't have to, because something needs to be renewed and everything else. So, my people, let's discuss real things, about what's real. Therefore, the 2020 report cannot be better hit by 2020. We had a pandemic, we had an earthquake. There was no one who unhappy you, that unfortunate office said why he didn't react in time one way or the other. I'll repeat what I said on the board. My first encounter in real life, real life, was when there was a flood on Cvelferia. What did we do then? They were getting containers because we needed them. They were gone. We didn't have any. We're an emergency. And what did the opposition ask us? Why did we get what prices we were getting? Why we've just decided on so many containers, where these containers are. Yeah, the opposition was neatly asked and we were neat on all this together and giving an answer. Therefore, all of this is so in one country that wants to develop liberal democracy, I hope that we want to develop it because it is legitimate to ask and it is legitimate to discuss it. When should we discuss the state of supply? Discuss when everything's good. When everything's good is good, you argue when you have little questionnaires above your head, when you think something's not very good. I'm gonna use this last minute for something that's my theme and I'm gonna talk all the time. My colleagues and colleagues, we in the public administration, I get a letter from the people I worked with or who know me, who warn me of the next thing. There's less of us than there's ever been, and since we're 50% and over 60 years old. What's the result? The fact that we had a number of years when it was a ban on public administration employment. This has now come to our attention, so if we want to function properly, we need to have a good, quality, educated staff that will also work in the public administration, protecting public well-being. If we don't have it, if we don't take care of it, we'll get into a lot of different problems and situations. And that's why I asked the secretary of state. It's something that would torture me, kill me, and get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115078	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115079	Thank you very much, colleague Taritash, there are representatives here from the opposition who remember not so long ago, but some in the past. More specifically, I think it's about two and fifteen or two and fourteen. That TV cameras were hunting some representatives in the Flower Square, in different cafes in Zagreb where they talk very casually about shorts and polo shirts, I guess important topics on coffees with friends. And a session of the Parliament is being held. Then they were opposition, now they're power. And now they're objecting to those who are doing something in the Parliament. And I guess in their eyes there aren't enough MPs here and now they don't think it suits them that the opposition is using its business right to put discussions on the agenda and some topics that are very important. Well, here's a comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115080	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115081	Comrade Hajdukovic, thank you very much for that question. So, I was a 7 or 8 grade primary school when the first watch was in the morning that held our class and said, "Some of them are always late." So, something that went absolutely on my nerves at the time, some are always late, so say the name and last name. And who hears about how some are always late, the ones who are there. It's the same situation for you when the assembly says it's empty, why the assembly is empty, whom they ask, those who sit in the assembly. I've said it 100 times. Don't ask me. I don't think I should discuss all the issues and not discuss all the topics. There are topics I'm discussing and I'm going to discuss and as long as I'm going to be a parliamentary representative responsible and knowingly do my job and I won't listen to that complaint, you're nobody. Or someone's gone when I'm here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115082	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115083	Thank you very much, colleague Dark. Yesterday we listened to your colleagues' lobby from the club why the opposition is wrong in the Croatian Parliament, why it does not work properly, if you were not there listen later. Secondly, as for the situation where you were the minister, and we were the opposition, I don't remember those moments because we didn't have any business opportunities to put any point on the agenda, to discuss any opposition point that was on the agenda, to adopt any of our proposals. That was convenient for you at the time, all of which came at you in a different way, it didn't suit you, but we're much better and more democratic in that behavior. You see for yourself, once again, one of the topics that you wanted, it doesn't matter who the promoter is. So those stories when you had a flood in Gunja or when you had a migrant crisis that started in the 9th month, we remember in 2015 you had everything in stock, right, but you were very ready to ask the question of this authority what happened after the earthquake in Zagreb, the earthquake I don't know about in Banovina or after the pandemic or the beginning of the pandemic why you're unprepared. Now that's the difference. between you and me, I see that's what the citizens see. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115084	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115085	Now, fellow Boric, there's something called selective memory, so then everything that suits us we remember, and what doesn't suit us, we don't remember, so there's just as much of those who've misremembered, and they just remember the bad things and they mention it. So, before this Rules of Procedure, there was a Rules of Procedure where all the reports and reports on the state of supply were not only possible to go to committees, but all the reports were coming to the plenary session of the assembly, so there were reports which, we did not skip the report on what stock stocks were when, when there was one option or another in power. And then I need to remind you that there was a report and the female attorney general who was in this assembly and who equally detected some of the things they discussed, asked, and then, along with the attorney general, she was often from the ministry of individual portfolios or ministries. You know, I'm old when I remember much better than yesterday, before yesterday. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115086	Your Honor, Your Honor, Agent Daus. Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Daus. Not from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Mrak Taritaš, I will talk about the future, not about the past and memory, you have mentioned a public administration problem that can be reported with the effectiveness of the same, given the average of the years as you have told the employee who will soon retire, but my question, because it is also about the supply of goods, in fact for the entire public administration, how you think to attract young educated people to come to public administration in view of the fact and the height of their wages that are not God-knowing because young quality and educated people in the private sector can earn twice as much and as the eternal question of how to reward in this public sector capable, effective, and to express myself a little rougher perhaps punish those ineffective, which the whole perception is actually transmitted, perception is passed on to all those who are quality and functioning system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115088	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115089	Thank you very much, colleague Daus. So when I try to listen carefully to what others say then always a lot, I have to say that even with more attention I listen to those who think differently than I do is for the simple reason I have to give myself some answers to the question they ask. I recently heard one thought, says we need health reform, until we make a health reform we will have problems in the budget, and we urgently need public administration reform and get rid of all those provisions. I always try to protect people from this pay phone and protect people who work in public administration. The years of indemnity come to you for payment. So we had years when they were banned from employment and you now have this one generation gap, and then you need to get into public administration the highest quality people. No matter how much you get when the perception is public that as soon as they arrive they are arrested, they are asked for certain knowledge and advancement and you can't pay them properly, not at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115090	Thank you. Now he'll be speaking to the esteemed representative of Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115091	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues are here ahead of us is the report on the state and management of the supply supply for 2020, and I think we can all agree that in 2020, one of the most complex years is already in a long time because when you look at what happened to us in 2020, if we look back until the Homeland War we won't find a more stressful and difficult year. Which is why we are now discussing the report in 2020, we heard from the secretary of state and other colleagues that there were a lot of issues in order, and I, if I remember the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development well, I think in the last year, sent 40 laws that we discussed here, and out of those 40 laws 10 was even on the subject of energy, which were very demanding, in which we had to discuss them well, which in fact we didn't, I think now in 2022 when the whole world in the energy crisis was in a far more difficult position, and somehow it was logical for me to have a priority to discuss them, and to discuss the report on stock stocks now. We also heard from colleagues earlier that there was a big problem in the public administration, that there was little staff in the directorship itself doing 18 people, and in full capacity there were never more than 15, so I can only congratulate and commend them for how good work they did in 2020. It is not good that few people are in the public administration, it should encourage young people to work, and on the other hand we have very, very bad examples where for example. SDP's government in Makarska young people, capable people, educated people are firing from public administration just because they don't vote for the SDP, so we have both negative examples and positive examples to work on. Otherwise, I think about all of us in Dalmatia from the coastal areas of the supply until 2020 they were somehow a synonym of how we can strengthen our fire departments by getting a good multi-purpose tanker that is very, very valuable to us in the summer seasons. And the tanker also serves us to deliver water and don't give the god of fire, of extinguishing and all. However, the situation changed in 2020 and we learned a much, much wider spectrum and the meaning of stock supplies, so only in art. 2. The Strategic Stocks Act is said to be created for insurance and basic supplies in times of war or direct threat and independence and survival of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters. And where you'll find more natural disasters than March 11th, 2020. The declared pandemic covida-19 and that the whole world was in trouble, so so was our homeland, primarily in problems with the purchase of security protective equipment and simply no one could get the equipment in sufficient amount to secure their health system. We were lucky to have the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2020. issued an invitation to the companies to deliver offers for the delivery of the protective equipment without public procurement because it was then possible to respond in due time, and they ordered a larger amount of protective equipment that helped us. All this cost in stock, the cost means to overcome the covida-19 crisis totalled 446 million and 616 thousand kuna, which was still the cost of airline and shipping services of 56 million we heard simply under these circumstances couldn't go anywhere cheaper. One more thing we must mention is that the total cost that the Republic of Croatia has borne in essence, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ensured to overcome the COvid crisis together with the measure to preserve jobs to this day, amounted to 44 billion kuna. Gentlemen, this is a great deal of money, which few countries could bear, and the Republic of Croatia, under the leadership of the HDZ government, is ready to welcome this challenging 2020. and preserve the jobs, and still the population to this day. And again we see what the shortcomings were, we have seen what it is, and we have a new law on commodity supplies, and we are also going to be looking at insurance funds for the purchase of goods, modernising our own storage space.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115092	Honorable representative Pocrnic Radosevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115093	Thank you. Dear colleague, you yourself said this report for 2020 and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia were exposed to great challenges, one earthquake, another earthquake afterwards, a pandemic that you yourself said cost about 44 million kuna to this country and its citizens. We know it was a quick response from the directorship and in the acquisition of masks and disinfectants when no one in Europe had them and everyone needed them. Our citizens didn't miss all those goods that were the subject of this report. Also, when we see the report of the directorship's incomes are higher than expenditure, although expenditure has increased due to the refunding of legal persons and operational forces related to covid and to the care of the population after need, and also by adopting a new law will certainly contribute to the improvement of the work of the directorship and the removal of the observed shortcomings which are According to the state audit report. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115094	The Honorable representative of the Brkan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115095	Thank you. That is exactly how I failed in my five minutes to look back at the earthquakes that hit our home country in 2020, which are also an integral part of this report, so we can say that the 22nd and 3rd 2020 earthquake, where only for the cost of mobilization and accommodation facilities of the troubled population, is allocated 17 million kuna 628 thousand and for the transport of goods and other supplies of another 282 thousand kuna. This is the first earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area, and we all remember that by the end of the year, a big earthquake hit Banovina as well. So in two days, two working days, how long was left until the end of the year, the department of supply managed to issue goods worth 2 million kuna 389 thousand and to allow the transport for the goods to go smart and not to be given more than what was already on the ground present from the red cross and other associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115096	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115097	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. More and more frequent are the use of supply supplies for the deployment of goods and equipment and the provision of storage and use of voluntary fire companies and public fire departments, which is very important. You're coming from Makarska from our Dalmatia and it's getting more and more evoga is already being seen and the fires that are really causing great damage both material and human in our Dalmatia and I'm wondering how important is the willingness and all these voluntary fire departments and fire departments to preserve human lives, material benefits, houses all that needs to be preserved from fire?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115098	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115099	Thank you, dear colleague, for asking. If God didn't want us to use stock at all, that would be best. However, since we need them to benefit from them, we do well to have them, and it is good to have such goods that are well - managed and well - managed. As mayor of Makarska, I was able to take over from the supply supply on July 1st 2019 just one multi-purpose tank that served us for water delivery in places in the summer season when there was no water, and it was also available for storage in case of fire. This tank is still in very good condition, it is guaranteed to you by JVP Makarska and DVD that has taken over in Kutina from also a very good thing is equipped by the company Cigler, meaning again Croatian intelligence, Croatian technique, and to our benefit and to this day it is also preserved and ready for use anywhere in Croatia, and primarily with us in Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115100	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Secretary of State is gone right now, and I welcome you and express my dissatisfaction at the beginning of this debate, in fact you could have asked us to sign this initiative, but we are much more interested in this topic than those of you who initiated it. I believe that this topic is very serious, very lifelike and can lead to catastrophic consequences if it is not taken into account. But we have a government of the Republic of Croatia that takes care of very well. Stocks are something of a life-saving nature. 2020 was one of the most challenging years in post-war Croatia, I would say, two earthquakes occurred, a pandemic occurred in 2022, and I think there was an aggression against Ukraine and I think that the awareness of the Croatian government, the president of the Croatian government and the people who are responsible for managing the system called the state, which is not as much fun as some who are sitting here just to fill the time to some dinner or some games, are taking care of this topic. We had opportunities to stock up, especially us who are members of the Committee on Agriculture, to discuss it. What I think is important is that the capacity filling that Croatia has is at a level that is adequate, let's be honest. It was said here that many called for that first earthquake when, which took place on December 28th in Petrinja and when people came from, from all over Croatia, and I was alone there and I saw a lot of parliamentary representatives, but about this Petrovina and this Banovina today someone is taking care of it and today someone is there 24 hours on the ground and wants to help people forget about this disaster as soon as possible, or we will never forget it, but to resuscitate it. What makes me as a man who has had the opportunity to be part of a system called civil protection and I think that civil protection should get a greater dignity in, in, in Croatia at all levels, it is a system that guarantees us that we will have trained people, that we will have people who will be willing to respond to any disaster that will possibly happen in Croatia. Stocks are what comes first in disaster under our hands and on our hands, we heard here and from the secretary of state what it all has in stock, you have a report in front of you, you know exactly and you could read too much. What I look forward to is mainly Croatian goods from Croatian producers when it comes to food, including some other goods that make up goods are Croatian, Croatian production. To mention one case from 2009 or 2010 as something marked as the stigma of the entire system was wrong, some people found themselves in the wrong place and so, the grain of silos disappeared, but it happened once. You've now heard the State Secretary's report here that all 289 locations have been controlled and there's not a kilo or a kilo of anything missing. Therefore, I know that the assembly often serves to bring out things that will be interesting to the media, which will be transmitted, but they are simply not accurate. Let us be happy that Croatia has a million and 200 thousand hectares of arable land, that we are sufficient in grains, olives and everything that can guarantee us to survive much longer than some other countries that may be economical and stronger than it is, which is Croatia and that is what we should work on and once we order from here, I think the Secretary of State also ordered it. We used to have stockpiles that dealt with the purchase of surpluses on the market whether it was cattle, whether it was about food products, it's no longer a supply directory today. But what's also not good, the 3 parliamentary deputies sitting in committee, of which 3 here I see only the respected Vice President Antu Sanader, the other two members I don't see here in the assembly, they should talk much better, much more overly, but unfortunately we spent two hours, but again on the topic that is vital to Croatia, so you asked us to sign it dearly would do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115102	Here's a replica of Honored Representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115103	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am a member of the Committee on the Economy, and the Committee on the Economy of HS was held at the 24th session of September 2021. discusses the report on the situation and management of stocks for 2020. And everyone... The indicators submitted to the president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 16 September 2021, so the report was there, members of the Committee on Economy knew, except what we now signed here that we saw this secret part, and that too will be solved, what our Secretary of State said will all be resolved by law, will no longer be secret. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't see why I'd really agree with that so we could sign. But there was no need, but since September that report has been here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115104	I agree with the esteemed Parliamentarian. Yeah, you often look for topics just enough to fill the time. But I think that every debate in the Croatian Parliament is useful, that every parliamentary debate, especially if it is led by people who know something and something about it, can teach us parliamentary representatives something. That's why I sit around sometimes more listening than I'm saying to hear what people say and what's smart. Therefore, let us strengthen ourselves as a country that has preconditions and conditions. We prepare for disasters because they will always happen, and that we will not know a day, or the moment when it will happen. Therefore, let us practice, work, be consistent and stick to what is most important here for us in the Croatian Parliament, and that is the Croatian man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115105	Next is the individual debate of the respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115106	Thank you, dear vice president, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. One more good day to everyone. What I would like to say in the beginning of my debate is not an affair. Hide the data and hide behind the secret invented by opponents as the opposition did not participate in whom they would be arrested in the stock reserves themselves. We've come to that somehow. That's what happened, and I think it's absolutely justified to ask these things in this place and to discuss them. Also, what I have to say is that I am very glad that we are finally discussing this matter in a serious way. Many times in this country, for 30 years, both the Civil Protection and the Stocks Sector has been seen as a necessary evil. The pandemic, inflation, the war in Ukraine has shown us and I hope taught us how important these are and how serious it must be to deal with them more seriously than we've dealt with so far, regardless of what in all these reports that come before parliamentary representatives everything always looks very good and very nice. But this topic in my opinion is much wider, and it's not just a theme of management of supply supplies and what these people are doing there and how many of them are there. Because as we had a debate about the State Audit, we could hear on the subject of goods supplies now that there were obviously too few of them, that human beings had been sub-cated and that simply other than the debates that we were giving them moral support. We didn't make all of them together enough to give them one more serious frame of work. It is definitely that the Civil Protection Sector as well as the stock stores have shown in the initial pandemic attacks as a good and solid system. I'm sorry that the politics that came up afterwards are some of these things disabling, but it's not those people's fault. Today, a restoration is mentioned that we are all very proud of. I would just like to stress that this earthquake in Zagreb took place in March 2020 in Banovina in December 2020. We're in the middle of 2022 now, and I haven't exactly seen how much of it is, how and in what way it's restored except that we're giving great moral support and we're there for 24 hours. As much as we asked the European Commission to postpone, because we haven't withdrawn almost so much of the funds they've allocated to us for it, so it might be better if we don't boast too much and explain how great we are and how great we are. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but it seems to me that most of the people who waited in the containers last Christmas and the new year will welcome this one as well. Only if Minister Paladin now shakes the system, in a break of dealing with his bond problems and with all those burdens he carries from some of his previous lives. What I'd like to point out in this debate about stockpiles, that why she's so much wider to me. Because this crisis has now shown us how important it is for us to be self-sufficient in our industry, especially in our agriculture. That's where we have to admit we haven't done enough. We have a verdict against Eve Sanader in the case of INAMOL. The state's attorney's office and the government have done nothing about it yet. We are still hostages of MOL, Hungary and Orban when we talk about Croatian oil and Croatian refineries. We have some indications from the media that something should be done about it, but we've had these signs six years before Christmas 2016 when it was announced that we're going to buy INA. We haven't moved from the dead spot yet, and we are still in a position for someone else to control Croatian oil from Croatian oil fields, regardless of what Minister Coric has said in his time that it is not our oil. A similar situation since we said we were self-sufficient in a lot of agriculture that it was true. We have a lot of land, we could be self-sufficient. Because if we go to analyze where we are with meat, where we are with the mass of other cultures we will see that we are absolutely 30 years of leading Croatian agriculture, that we haven't done enough, and also since the beginning of the pandemic of covid, we haven't had enough trade in these two years and we understand lessons about the necessary changes in Croatian agricultural policy. Because if we had understood that after we had already passed one school in the INA MOL case, we would not have allowed ourselves to take over in Slavonia which we have mentioned here today, we now have the case that the agricultural parts of Fortenovo will take over these same Hungarians with unclear ownership structures and we could easily end the living Croatian pension funds, end of the living Croatian agricultural and food industry in a situation that after oil in Hungary comes wheat, so that our good brother Orban returns to Croatia on his own terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115107	Here's a few replicas. The first is a respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115108	Thank you, colleague Jaksic. I don't know if during the day, during this debate you listened to the way HDZ twists the truth and reality wrongly thinking that this time too will come their way. Namely, I'm going to state a few facts now, and you tell me whether or not you agree. The persons arrested and found to have manipulated and stolen goods were HDZ's. Stock supplies under the law are managed by a government that is currently HDZ and puts its people HDZs within the system itself. The report on the state of supply is being reviewed by the parent board for the economy in which HDZ also has a majority, and according to the Constitution, it is parliament or HS that should oversee and control the government, and in this HS, too, HDZ has a majority, is it not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115109	I can answer all of this now that you've established everything exactly, most of it's HDZ, the prime minister is HDZ, the minister is HDZ, most of it on the boards is HDZ. So it's all something that's factographically absolutely correct, but here it comes to us now.../incomprehensible/... so it's true. Now, if it'll last, we'll see about that. You'd say in the Podravina, before morning, the penises count. The joke aside, but what today in this debate turns out to be out of the closet is that unfortunately despite the Croatian Constitution, despite being a parliamentary democracy, we are simply turned into an office model where parliamentary representatives best not to ask anything, and many times we can tell ourselves that we decide on parliamentary decisions in the office of the Chancellors, and we are all here together part of the public play, that people see that there is a Parliament and there are parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115110	Next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115111	Dear counterpart Jaksic, I think you've made a good finding of this fact, not the people in the system, it's the people who run it, and it's the ones who misplaced the parameters and the frames for it because I'm afraid the system has shown, not the system as a system, but our stock stores, that they've shown that they're insufficient to deal with any more serious crisis. We have most of the temporary care containers we still have in the field still in Banja. I guess it's because of that renovation that's so successful and that we're listening so much, but I'm asking you a rhetorical question. Why don't you let God have some kind of disaster or threat happen? What then, when we say, most of this material is already engaged and, as you said, at least by the end of this year, it will be longer than likely. So we need to seriously consider civil protection systems, the supply system and all systems of response to emergency threats and similar unpredictable situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115112	Well, I absolutely agree with your thesis because if you don't give God and I don't want to get myself into a situation where someone says that, if we had done it, what would have been said, I'm afraid we'd have huge problems because the whole system is absolutely facing Bania and of course we should be facing Bania, but what's the biggest tragedy that in two years we've moved very little and that now we have some new moment, a new migrant crisis, we don't know how the story in Ukraine and the war in Ukraine can go on. We would certainly find ourselves in big troubles, and we would expect EU assistance again, if someone threw something at us, and we would be doing something with it, once successfully, once completely unsuccessful, rebuilding it is the best example. As far as the system itself and the arrests and individuals are concerned, I think, unlike you, that it can't right now, let's say, the Prime Minister is responsible for every reference in the supply supply, but yes, it is true, with his political decisions, the government should be the one who dictates and the pace of change in the system and the system's dissipation in a better way than we've admitted today that we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115113	Next replica, dear Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jaksic. Do you think there's enough strategic thinking about stockpiles? I especially mean here from the point of view of the needs assessment. From our here, and the bad experiences or the bad troubles that we've had for the last two years, but from the aspect of human beings' capacitation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115115	No, so this is a similar response to the morning debate on the State Audit Office, so we all know that we need it, we like to commend them all, but when these people have to pay for it and give them the human resources and the conditions for doing the work that we expect them to do, then we usually fall for the exam and nothing happens at all, but since the issue is about stock supplies, why is my answer not? Because starting with the pandemic, work, inflation, I really don't see it, and it could stretch to 30 years back, what we did with Croatian agriculture, and in which branches we strategically said through our decisions and policies, we have land, we have pastures, we have forests, we will be self-sufficient, we will do it, that, that and that. And we can't hide forever behind the free market because when the crown started, even now that inflation has started because of the war in Ukraine, much more developed and much more open economic countries have made some decisions that are absolutely opposition to open market policies because they protect their citizens and their economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115116	Next individual debate, respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115117	Dear Members, let me immediately explain why I asked my colleague Jaksic what the party is currently doing to a government that manages strategic supplies, which the party currently has a parliamentary majority that should control the government and whose members of the party have found themselves in corruption affairs related to the management of the stock. Well, to prove that those HDZs who resisted today in the opposition section of the assembly are not interested in discussing the state of supply at all, they are only interested in the fact that they are now being overly important that there is no one who has signed the initiative to discuss this report at the HS session. So I have absolutely no intention of defending those who are able to cause a duel, and while they are not here when they need to consistently defend their views and replicate HDZ MPs, but in any case you can't tell me that I am not in this assembly, I think that I am here statistically spending the most of my time, and I am doing this because I refuse to follow the patterns of behaviour of the other MPs who have allowed themselves to be demoted by your rules of play starting with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure itself. And that's what I'm going to talk about here, and just about the content of this report. But before that, let me just do a little analogy. Namely, the rules of the game are one film, one satirical comedy of France that speaks of the higher class and their servants, about their moral breakdown, about their contempt for others just before the destruction and their final fall, and you, especially your colleague Bačić, may learn some lessons about it. Now, what are the rules of the game that should be changed, and also the instruction and message to other parliamentary deputies not to run to HDZ when HDZ calls them to any negotiations. There are no negotiations particularly informal on Croatia's future with HDZ. The political party legally convicted of corruption has no legitimacy to offer or condition when it comes to constitutional changes. And as all these initiatives have passed so far, all these arrangements, we can see under the table also on various examples from the election of constitutional judges, until the amendments to the Rules of Procedures that have changed upwards. For example, Article 44. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not always look like this. Sometimes all the reports in the logic of things were discussed here where they belong, and then someone remembered to enter the provision, that the working body of the Croatian Parliament would discuss the reports, and then the Parliament would only vote on them without discussion. That's what you did with the stock exchange report completely unnecessary, barren and wrong. And then when we talk about what the board is doing with all due respect to the MPs, maybe the only HDZ club I don't have as bad an opinion as anyone else. But don't do anything. Here's what's not there. Article 6: “The slave supplies are managed by the Government, and this report is submitted once a year, and, otherwise, administrative, professional and economic activities are carried out by the State Department of Goods. In order to exercise control over the management of the Parliament, the Council shall establish a council whose term of office shall continue until the impeachment. That advice, and we said we have three parliamentary representatives and two respected public employees. It discusses the balance sheet proposal, discusses the annual programme of strategic stocks, and quarterly and annual reports on supply management, and delivers its conclusions to the Government. When I asked the Government's representative, well, we have this information about who these parliamentary representatives and other members of this Council are, but we have no record of whether they met. I didn't get an answer. A representative of the Government acted dead, and such an answer, for example, whether there were these quarterly and annual reports, and what conclusions they delivered to the Government did not even remember to ask the parent parliamentary committee, which means that Article 81. The constitution that prescribes the Parliament's obligation to control the government does not work in practice. We hid behind the matrix committees who serve nothing but to be a fig leaf for all the immorality and lawlessness of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115118	Replica, dear Michelle Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115119	Dear colleagues Oreshković only one question why we are simply about such an important topic, and goods supplies, self-sufficiency especially in times and in the crisis in which we live is a very important topic, we are running away from this debate, we are trying to hide the debate. And if there's an argument, then we deal with it as if it's passed somewhere next to us and we even have figures of style why you're even asking it because everything is perfect. Who is in the interest of such a level of communication and sometimes even hiding important information for Croatian public and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115120	Comrade Jaksic, please be precise. Who is he who does not want to discuss it here in the Croatian Parliament is HDZ. But today, it's a good thing there's no opposition. The fact is that most opposition MPs have proven lazy. I have no intention of defending them, but even less I intend to tell you that you are the ones who do not want a transparent, responsible, timely system of strategic commodity supplies. It's always a place for you to load and mess up in a blur, that you want today at a time of famous digitization all these reports should be no special secret. It should be publicly available to any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that any citizen may have some personal security that, in the event of major natural disasters or war conditions, his personal existence will at least be provided by the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115121	Next replica, the esteemed Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115122	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, agriculture, food production is the basis of everything and goods supplies as well. For example, when you pass by plane over Croatia and this part of Europe, and you see neighboring countries, those that have plains are all beautifully processed and we already see a lot of forests. So I'd like to know how you comment on your angle of view the insufficient use of Croatian agricultural potential from land to beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115123	So the Croatian agricultural potential in terms of land was used to be a currency for obtaining non-subsidy subsidies. I'm sorry to hear that. Not all regions I have to admit are equally bad or should I say so in a corrupt way. You can see exactly which regions have agricultural production, which have abandoned parcels. One of these same abandoned plots, whether they have been planted by pastures, but have failed or for some other reason been given their incentives. Recently, here in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on COMASATION that should have created better conditions for exploiting the agricultural area, but again we did not solve what is important, we did not solve good procedures, again we do not have professional administrative bodies, but there are some artificial commissions such as here we have a Council on Stocks, whose work, the purpose of existence and the results of work do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115124	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115125	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished representative Oreskovic, esteeming your pain and coming to the assembly sessions, I can testify to that and argue, but I offer one answer. Most in HS, most in committees, there is one who wins the election, and that was HDZ, it has won, it has created conditions and preconditions for the establishment of the Parliament, for the election of the Croatian government, and these are the foundations of democracy, but you keep here in HS trying to show us something, we are the winners of the 2020 election, we have received the trust of the citizens of the Republic and we manage a system called the state. In two years there will be a reelection when you and your party win, you will have the same conditions and conditions as we do. And it really fascinates me where you always find that amount of hate for all of us sitting here just as much in HS and representing each other. The citizens who chose us to sit [[Intruder: Time.]] Here we represent their interests. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115126	Facts, a colleague of Ivanovic, are not hate. And the fact that one political party with 16.4% of votes received in relation to the entire electoral body is not a democratic victory but a hostage crisis. You're talking about winning the election, so by what rules? Now I've made an analogy to the rules of the game, to the unconstitutional election units since 2010, and now, after moving out of your Slavonia, that unconstitution is even greater and stronger. If elections are not made through constitutional units, in 2024 when regular parliamentary elections should be held, HDZ will steal them. I won't let you do that. ... Well, there was more to it than that, and more to it than that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The mandate you are currently enjoying! [[Please, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115127	Please. Please. Don't argue from the bench. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115128	He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Oreshkovic hurt him in a way that the HDZ had re-proved us here to some criminals and thieves, I would just ask her how many of her clubmates were paying for toilet brushes in Gunja? 281 cost taxpayers a toilet brush that costs 14.5 kuna in the store. So much for honesty and so much for being less or more honest. I don't think you might be the most competent person to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115129	Time You don't have [[Intruder: E just...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You used this as a replica, Mr. Ivanovic, you get a warning. [[/Intruder: Mm-hmm.]] Next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115130	Thank you very much. My colleague, yesterday, our colleague Škoro was trying to educate him a little bit, I guess first of all, and then I guess the Croatian public, which is the role of an opposition or opposition representative. If this isn't the role of the opposition advocate we're doing today, which is to warn about the shortcomings and to give constructive criticism, then I don't know what it is, but this majority is every criticism, and it's also constructively very hateful. This majority, which often calls for consensus, is a consensus when we all agree with their proposal. So, a very little culture of dialogue exists and in the end we'll turn out to be some evil prophets when we say that some shortcomings exist, that God doesn't give up again, I say, there's gonna be some new threat, all the shortcomings of the same system will again show up. The war in Ukraine is something that will obviously be another time in Europe, and we have no answers to such and similar threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115131	Thank you. Let's do it in a row. The HDZ was based on HDZ, i.e. Škoro was from the HDZ flock, so sooner or later it will return to that flock, especially now that it is not elsewhere. A colleague Ivanovic went away, but I think it's really cowardly to lift up a staff injury to the Rules of Procedure knowing that I can't replicate at the time, so I'm going to replicate it now. I'm very competent to talk about those toilet brushes because the same rule has been made by the game I've been talking about all along, the public procurement rule for both the toilet brushes and the pasta that's been purchased here at twice the market prices. Therefore, goods are supplied through a public procurement system, not at market prices from trade that can vary depending on the situation on the market. And whoever conducts such procurement, whether HDZ or any other political option, is forced to accept the most favourable offer. Should such rules be changed? It should have been a long time ago, made someone smarter. Of course you're not even interested in discussing such proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115132	Next individual debate, respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115133	Here it is, I'll go back to the metrics, I've even lost the will to discuss the relationship between HDZ and corruption. I think that's enough here has been said, and I'd like to have some more constructive discussions about what is the content of our debate, so let's see if maybe we're mistaken when something seems to be a potential malversion that can be brought down by arguments. I allow it to be possible, but for that I want to hear arguments, not estimates that something is casual since I read reports like this. And that's where I'm going to relate to what we started earlier, so I'm going to ask for further clarifications because it's about things that really matter. All this stuff we're getting for supply costs a lot because it's large amounts of food independence that we should be provided with in times of crisis. So when we're talking about a kilo of pasta, not a bag of pasta, how it's sold, which someone could replace, with a pruning review of several stores, I'm really finding, and here, I'll tell you the name of the pasta, Grano Doro pasta, which costs 8.99 kuna per kilogram. You have Zara pasta that costs 13.98 kuna per kilogram, now we're talking about higher prices, not in 2020, given that we're currently in a time of crisis, so your assessment that a kilo of pasta costs 24 kuna, has such pasta, but is certainly not the only one and is not the one who knows the whole system should be highlighted. What concerns me even more than the price itself, and what I ask is that I have found at least 3 foods, meat cans, pasta and cheese for which we have only one bidder. Why is that? Are there people who don't want to cooperate with the state, who are in the food business? Are these jobs pre-arranged, as is often thought or not enough companies in Croatia that have the capacity to deliver such quantities and is it necessary at all to then deliver so many quantities for a higher price than the marketable one, so that we can break it perhaps in several smaller offers and thus save something for the state? That's my open question. If you don't already agree on the price, why in so many cases are we talking about one bidder and in a number of years, constantly about the same bidder? Another question I'm interested in when we're talking about warehouses, what came up as a problem of the Republic of Croatia and a potential security threat relates to the lack of dispersed warehouses, so we don't have enough smaller warehouses where we store food supplies so that in the event of some kind of security threat, if we lose one warehouse, we've lost a lot more than we should have been able to store them more widely. Is this problem addressed, is it being solved, and what can we expect in the future? When we talk about the availability of the report, not this micro report that only has 27 pages, I would like it to be much more detailed and see, and when we see this list of supply supplies, let's see who has secured these stock supplies so that we can continue to explore certain companies and public procurement and everything else, and not only do we have the quantities available, on the very pages of the stock supply we can find general reports for only 3 things. For civil protection, disinfections and tests and transport, therefore, what concerns Covid-19, however, cannot be found, let's say for these classic stock stocks, at least so easily available a report that states and concrete companies, I don't know why, but I would like it to be clearly available, so that it can also be checked again and these public procurement procedures and reasoned discussions about them. In addition, to the question I asked here about the mark of secrecy and obtaining beyond public procurement, which was the government's decision of 17 March 2020, what you were saying, as of 3 June 2022, the government's decision regarding the Directorate, namely civil protection in the Banovina area. However, there is no new decision here, I don't know if it was made earlier, expired, whether it had stopped being applied, but I leave it as an open question, and this, this hasty procurement is, I didn't deny it myself, as part of the Public Procurement Act, but it's not the usual procurement process, but it's kind of a rush, as the name itself tells it. So around these things I'd like to clarify and that some things are more accessible than they are right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115134	Replica esteemed Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115135	Thank you. My colleague Rasudiæ, just to further clarify this situation with the price of certain goods that are indeed in the public, or in the system of stock stocks greater than the usual market. In fact, sometimes corruption is really a matter of pure theft, and sometimes some things come from a poorly designed model, and I think it's also one of the problems here, so there's not enough transparency to start with, and then what the system of rules is made to say is going to be considered the most favourable offer without cutting off first below or above which price offers will not even be considered. So a little goodwill from the ruling that in reading opposition complaints, finding some benefit for public interest would be much more polite behavior than what we could hear and see today by HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115136	I agree, as is known, the most favourable offer is not necessary and it is often in the building of the mustache, which is also the cheapest. So if you take some price that's not cheapest, she can have an excuse, but we deserve that excuse to hear. This may be due to storage capacity if the goods themselves are kept by the one from which they are purchased, it may be in terms of quality although quality is a very open issue, when we talk about stock stocks, since the large quantity of goods purchased has a limited duration and later, which we see from the Report goes to humanitarian purposes. So it's something that's constantly being renewed, and then whether it's economically cost-effective and opportunistic to target something that's the highest quality at the highest price, or if we're not in the time of the crisis, because it can be about the supplies we're about to renovate, or we're going to have to get rid of these surpluses. These are all serious issues that can be discussed here in a quality way if we are to withdraw from each other's flat-rate accusations and focus on the content of this Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115137	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representatives Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115138	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Strategic stockpiles are important from the aspect of the social, social and humanitarian roles of every country that comes and comes to terms in exceptional situations, constantly secure and available supplies ensure smooth and timely intervention, eliminate consequences and excludes market dependence, production, import and international aid. Due to the unelementary disasters that have hit us in collaboration with the Civil Protection Directorate, the Ministry of the Interior, are increasingly using strategic stockpiles. In 2022 it was an extremely demanding year due to earthquakes in Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County and the Covida-19 epidemic, and nevertheless, the report on the state and management of supply supplies for 2020 financial indicators, as we have seen, took place in accordance with the rules applicable to the budget and budget supplies. On the state of supply on 31.12.2020. we have written in tables, representing 525 million 144 thousand 876 kuna, meaning where the stock is recorded from agricultural and food products where meat, milk, dairy products, fats to supply, accommodation and health care of the population, etc. This topic is extremely important and important because the goods stocks are important in the times that are coming to us, and times are very uncertain, but our government and the restoring ministry and the department of supply are very responsible for monitoring the situation and reacting accordingly. And in the end, I would point out that the HDZ Club will vote in favour of the stock exchange report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115139	Next is the final debate of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Mary Selak Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115140	Finally, I will look back at the necessary improvements on this type of report so that we can have more quality discussions and talk more seriously about goods, especially in times of crisis. Of course, it is not a normal situation in which an opposition club collects signatures to discuss the 2020 report. The moment we're in 2022. when our stock supplies are the key to survival in the future given the current socio-economic situation. This report should therefore arrive early in both the HS and the agenda in terms of the debate. Secondly, when we talk about the report, this report is quite a bug that only has 27 pages if I'm not mistaken, it would be more useful if it were more accurate, that in those parts relating to the specific supply of the food that we have both bidders and those whose offers were accepted to see from whom these supplies were and obtained. It would also be useful for us to have all this information as clearly available as we had previously for this section concerning disinfection,... transportation and civil protection. When we talk about stockpiles in the Republic of Croatia, of course, that the question of whether 58% of the controlled warehouses in terms of the presence of the supply directory is not something that we should have a clear answer here in the sense that we welcome him through a conversation with the secretary of state, that is something that we should have explained in the reports why exactly it happened. To say there was a covid crisis so we couldn't get out on the ground certainly wasn't enough justification, same as the questionable finding we didn't find a gram of sugar shortages or whatever, of course there's nothing missing anywhere is ideal or we expect it to be ideal, but we expect it to be in accordance with some rules that the deficits aren't serious, if there are human errors that they're sanctioned. It is justified here to question also bidders in view of the situation that we have only one bidder on a continuous basis for different types of food and that this is standard practice in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about public procurement not only for commodity supplies but for a lot of it, so the question of previous agreements or discouragement is also asked to apply to any form of cooperation with the state. We are not only expected to accept the report blindly here but rather to ask questions about what seems logical or what does not seem logical in such reports. So, in conclusion, I do not think that it should have been an opposition task for the club of sovereigns to collect signatures to discuss this report, I think that the sequence of logic and the current priorities of the Republic of Croatia is this report and not only for the previous year or 2020, at least for 2021, we should have come to the agenda and then we could have a systematic debate that goes beyond who is or is not corrupt in the Republic of Croatia, but really here and when we are talking about these prices that are being asked as a question, so everyone draws out the one that suits the largest or the lowest price of pasta to see at all what the criteria are and which should be met, and I believe that this is very interesting for the Croatian public when we choose what is called the most favourable bidder because in these situations, if we do not clarify these things in the HS, the issues will only continue to be repeated. Yeah, they'll wonder why 80 kuna pounds of Goode is, why it should be leaves, why it's not the cheapest pasta and what about our storage capacity, if we're going to improve them, if we're going to disperse them so we don't have an even greater security threat at the time of the crisis. In any case, I think that, like HS, all of us and the opposition and ruling, we can do much better in this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115141	A final debate follows on behalf of Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115142	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to get on to my colleague, Selak Rasdic, what she was saying. So, in 2022. We are discussing an extremely important report from 2020. And it's not the first time. We're similar here. I'll remind you of the reports of the attorney general, but also of many others. And these annual reports actually lose meaning if we are to discuss them with a few years away, then we should really change the law, the Rules of Procedure and the rest and simply not discuss them on resolution committees because the purpose of these discussions is completely lost, which is that we, as representatives, but also the Croatian public, have insight into the development of events in some segments, whether it's goods supplies, whether it's the work of our attorneys, whether it's a third report on police work and so on. If we're discussing these developments then it really makes very little sense, and that more if that opposition has to put its initiative and its signatures on the agenda. That's one thing. The second thing, those who claim that thanks to our stock supplies, we reacted in time, effectively and well to the 2020 threat, and that was a pandemic, I don't know if they really live in some parallel universe. I'll just remind you of the lack of protective masks, the lack of protective equipment at all, of the great hysteria and panic that has arisen. And that our hospitals, and now I repeat hospitals and stockpiles didn't have any supplies, would probably have run out of anything very quickly. If it's really an effective availability of state goods, then I don't know what it is. Why some materials, including safety and medical supplies, do not have sufficient amounts for at least the first month, for example in the event of a threat such as a pandemic. Of course, we cannot predict such threats, but I will draw your attention to an extremely reactive approach to the government that has decided to complement our stock stocks only after the start of the war in Ukraine and of course it has done so at more expensive prices. Storage space is an extremely big problem for our stockpiles, and that's something we need to think about in the future. It is obvious that the paradigm of security in the world has changed radically, so from February 24th nothing is the same and it will not be the same, it may be a bit pathetic to say, but it is a fact and we must be prepared for different security threats from health, to appearance and wartime, to and unfortunately the last two earthquakes in Zagreb and Banovina reminded us that the natural disasters of wider scales are possible. For this reason, we need to think about the efficient management of the supply supply, the appropriate infrastructure, but also about the appropriate quantities that should be available to us. Obviously, after the invasion of Ukraine, the world has become a much more insecure place of security, and it is certain that we need to focus more seriously and responsibly on this problem as part of the security problem. The more war in Ukraine continues to rage, the longer it will certainly take, some optimistic forecasts that the autumn may end, but it may be much longer. The grain remains blocked in Ukrainian ports, is not exported or the Russians are robbing supplies, supply chains are still disrupted by energy, but they too with food and will take some time to get it all up. I hope we don't have any shortages, but there are shortages as well as hyper inflation and a huge increase in prices could have been overcome precisely and with sufficient stock supplies, and I don't know why at least some parts of the stock are still being declared secret. It is clear to me that locations because the stock store must be secret and should be secret, however some items, the amount of grain or such things should really not be. And so far, more and more of these are over, so far we haven't exactly shown ourselves in the management of state goods supply, and so are corruption scandals that we've had before, but also insufficient response now. But we have time, we have time to change it, but I now appeal that it is really not five to twelve but twelve and five to commit ourselves seriously to this problem so that we are not surprised again by some security threat or a natural disaster or something else that we cannot predict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115143	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club of Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Vesna Vesna Veucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115144	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a clean final few things to sum up because there's been a lot of criticism in this debate why this report was even put on the plenary session and there's been a lot of talk that it's unnecessary, that it's enough to just argue on the board. I don't think so, and I'm glad we had this debate because I think that debate was necessary, and I think it was constructive and I think it was useful. In fact, I honestly don't know why certain MPs felt that we shouldn't discuss this because we're saying that something we don't want to discuss in public creates certain doubts, and even if you add that there's been a State Audit report that's been marked as very secret by some 17 recommendations that indicate that there's irregularities and everything that preceded it, and we all remember a little bit longer, it opens up a number of doubts, and I think we've actually calmed the public down by this debate because we've learned from the secretary of state that we have a stock reserve at 67%, which is more than it was 2020 for which this report is. We found out that the controls were carried out from this report, and we saw that the directors weren't at all locations, and now we heard that they were at all locations that everything was fine, and I think this was necessary. This is obviously not a world-wide topic of interest, so it remains until four o'clock in the morning, do not be interested in the numerous representatives, but Croatian sovereigns believe that at the moment when the angry work in Europe is extremely important to know how we stand, whether we have that food security or whether it is merely declarative. And that's why we started it, I think it was good, I think it was useful, I think it was necessary, and the fact is that a number of affairs were tied to the stock reserves, there were arrests, there were all kinds of embezzlements, there was even 2009. So the debt is seen and this report is being dragged to the present day and it is significant in terms of several tens of millions of kunas and the thing is that things are being discussed at the plenary session in HS because it is the only place where we can actually give our court and calm the Croatian public, and at this point the most important thing is not to spread panic, not to spread disinformation, and I think that today we have achieved it and to point out that there is a challenging period, a period of great uncertainty where we have mechanisms, we have tools regardless of what we are a member of the EU, regardless of what part of that common market is to provide for our residents with enough supplies, all that is necessary for the food safety of the population of the Republic of Croatia and we as one sovereign member of the EU can launch certain mechanisms at our disposal, and are listed in the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, so that our citizens have all because what we produce and grains and we will not be sufficient. So we have to secure all those preconditions either through the supply supply or through some other mechanisms, the government there must do everything in its power to now harvest 400,000 tons of wheat in our silos and to have enough for our population's needs. So here, once again, I'm going to thank everyone who participated in the debate and everyone who, by their signature, made it possible for this debate to come to the plenary session, regardless of their dissension, I think it was useful, effective, very constructive, and I honestly think there are a lot of reports that go to committees only, and it should be discussed at the plenary session because they are very important, and one of these is also about the stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-09-0.u115145	Here's what we've exhausted from the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. Declaration of amendments. The session was suspended at 5:43 p.m.
