ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u102740	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:05 A.M.]] Before we start our usual Friday at 12:00 a little reminder from history. HS is at its meeting on 9 and 10 June 1687. to encourage Zagreb's bishop Martin Borkovic, unanimously declared St. Joseph the protector of the Croatian Kingdom. As a permanent reference to that decision on 14 July 2008. The work of the sculpture of Shime Vulas was set up at the entrance to HS. Then let all together St. Joseph guard us. Let's get on with the work now. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I will propose a supplement to the 11th session agenda with 19 new points, a proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted to you by electronic means. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. The 206 Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, those are points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendments to the draft Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law with open investment funds with a public offering. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I hereby declare that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. At the remaining points of the draft agenda, the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of 4 of the Rules of Procedure did not determine that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 11th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u102929	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u102930	In today's society, the industry whose products or activities can have an adverse effect on people's mental or physical health is called vice industries, including the gambling industry. It is an industry that is rapidly developing under the influence of social change and technology development. Therefore, it is not surprising that the share of gambling addicts is significant and increases in the Republic of Croatia are estimated to be 40,000 gambling addicts. In this regard, it is extremely important and the regulation of gambling as one of the key environmental factors that contribute to the development of the problem. Two basic components of socially responsible gambling are the availability and accessibility of games and advertising standards. The preparation of gambling games or gambling products and services in Croatia is regulated by the law on gambling and belonging rules. The Agency for Electronic Media referred to the e Consultative Regulation on the protection of minors in electronic media, which seeks to prescribe technical measures and methods of handling audiovisual media service providers and media services of radio and electronic publications in cases of publication of media content which may harm the physical, mental or moral separation of minors. I'd like to take a special look at the article here. The 11th and 12th draft rules governing audiovisual and commercial communications related to gambling that are not allowed to be broadcast in programmes intended for children should not claim that gambling is a risk-free game of financial loss, indicate false or unrealistic information about the probability of winnings, suggest that skill can affect the outcome of games of chance, suggest that games are an important part of each individual's life, etc. all audiovisual and commercial communications and audiovisual media services and radio programs that are broadcast in an unencoded form and associated with gambling should contain a sound or text message on the existence of a risk of gambling addiction and contain a visual symbol of category 18 for the whole time of their duration. In time from 6 to 23 hours, audiovisual and radio programs broadcast in an unencoded form are not allowed audiovisual and commercial communications dealing with casino games, betting and gambling games. Research shows that a clean ban on games and advertising is not enough to prevent problems. Professor Neven Ricijaša team from the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation of the University of Zagreb, the largest Croatian expert in this area recommends the following changes, further restricting the places where gambling is organised in terms of geo-temporary availability in relation to the wider spectrum of educational and social institutions, as well as the number of inhabitants in a local community, abolishing self-service terminals in catering facilities, and organising gambling only in their specialized areas, introducing a centralised model of gambling through cards and serving advertising standards in view of the adaptive potential of the game, given the types of messages that are allowed as a place and time of advertising. Using socially responsible approach and quality regulation of gambling, circumstances are created in which citizens or players are able to participate in gambling but with secure protection mechanisms, and the editors achieve their commercial objectives. Only such an approach can reduce the potential adverse consequences and have a long-term favourable impact on the revenues of the country, as it would also reduce the expenditure of a wide range of costs related to gambling addiction problems that indirectly burden the state budget. Croatia as an EU member state should follow European documents and guidelines that regulate gambling advertising. One of the main documents is the Commission's recommendations on the principles for the protection of online gambling players and preventing minors from playing online games, which came from a European Commission document entitled "By a comprehensive European framework for on-line gambling", in this light should also be supported by this Regulation, which brings together the Electronic Media Agency, as well as other countries of the region will be an experimental field in which we will see the maximum strain of our Croatian society in a completely poorly regulated gambling issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u102931	This concludes our position. I declare a break until 12:00 p.m. when we'll proceed with the vote. It's 11:09 p.m. Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS of the respected Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103024	The constitution is usually written by the eyes of the nation, founders, visionaries, those who have thought about the interests of their country and its people for longer than the duration of the personal and political ambitions of a party aparachic. The constitution should not design or change those who are morally, spiritually, but also intellectually freakish or small. The HDZ is not less or more known and immortalized for promoting the highest democratic standards, and even more so for the good that makes the Homeland in the past 30 years goes with an initiative that will give the people better opportunities to decide on its own through a referendum on some issues. In such a way, HDZ initiatives can only be believed to be extremely gullible or naive or simply short-sighted. Because everything wronged in independent and independent Croatia has created HDZ for itself, not for the state and its citizens for their benefit. 20 counties, 555 cities and municipalities, five times what we had before the war. In the same way that HDZ has territorially roughed Croatia in the same way as stealing and corrupting national, national resources, our public, national wealth. The legally condemned political party for corruption does not have the legitimacy to discuss Croatia's future, let alone lead to the main word. And those who imagine Croatia's future as a state where there is no HDZ and its corrupt action have nothing to answer to the HDZ siren call. Therefore, HDZ is a rotten foundation of this society, and on rotten foundations you cannot build long-term buildings. The matter of the referendum is an important constitutional and democratic issue. But I ask the question no matter what right to direct public decision will the HDZ give? And doesn't that opposition that responded to HDZ's call see that our state functions as the worst one-party party and that party in which the power to decide any social groups is much smaller than it was in times of communism. At least it was decided by the party, some of its committees, committees, and today all power is in the hands of one person. We sit as the amendments from the opposition pass, remember how any other initiatives go, remember how the HDZ respects the word, the proposals, the comments of the profession, there's nothing. On the other hand, do I ask the question, does the opposition consider that HDZ is now morally rehabilitated after all the reconstructed ministers, following the appointment of one Paladina, after setting the TC as vice governor? I ask the question to the opposition, does it now feel perhaps more politically important just because HDZ has thought to ask them something? I believe that the constitution should be discussed, but here, here, and not in the HDZ rooms, and not only the referendum issue, we need to regulate the relationship between the president and the prime minister, we see that it does not work or that there is a possibility of controlling their actions. Sucreation of foreign policy, what about it? The control of the government is almost nonexistent. We could ask as a condition of amending the constitution to finally strengthen the judiciary now that it is time. We can also discuss the constitutionality of the electoral units and its course, for example, we can determine that the mandate of the chief state attorney will take eight years, but the possibility of renaming. They're topics, they're topics, not advertising in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103169	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Marina Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103170	Dear Vice-President of the HS Mr Sanader, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatians and Croats, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Lockdown and Covid policies have led to the process of pauperating the poverty of citizens, destroying athletes, sports clubs, the decline of culture, the decline of the economy, inflation, we have the biggest inflation in the last 15 years, problems in the economy, the decline of entrepreneurship, the collapse of the education system, but also huge, huge problems in the health system. This brought all the pandemics, or more specifically the covid of politics or even more accurate lockdown. All this is doing the pandemic to make everyone understand me, one man that has suffered whoever is but clever is sorry, but for a pandemic like the world's epidemiologist said, I'm deliberately sarcastic Bill Gates yesterday who has a mortality of 0.2%. The man said it publicly, our mainstream media reputable, the evening shifted it 0.2%. In the Croatian Parliament they are particularly radical in looking for lockdown and inoculating everything that walks were colleagues from We can and colleagues from the SDP. I would even say one way even though my habitat would never approve it, I get that the ruling pressures from Brussels, ordered millions and millions of vaccines, and now we hear, now we'd like to write back, throw it away, but SDP and We can no one pressured so they advocated lockdown, strict lockdown and vaccination of anything that walks. They feared the citizens as they feared in the country with their grandmothers, don't go into the woods there's your booger, we'll all die, this will happen to you, it'll happen to you, and in the end there's a bogeyman in that candy house. Capak now announces new vaccines, says they come to the fall of this subvariant Omicron, says old vaccines do not work, but headquarters will make sure new vaccines come. I'll tell him without the crystal ball, so they won't make it. The Croatian people won't let them, we'll throw away those vaccines. I quote Bill Gates that these on call, those from the ministry of truth, I quote him, I call on world leaders to form a global team of 3,000 experts in infectious diseases, those with their agreed attitudes will help humanity to get through the more painlessly all the pandemics that are coming to us. Global epidemic response mobilization, which is what I was talking about here, should be managed by the World Health Organization, and we must not allow, be careful, that national states implement independent policies that will then contribute to the greater spread of the disease and the problems of the pandemic. So, my friend, are you crazy? Well, the boys died here in this assembly there are Croatian defenders, they died for our freedom, they gave their lives for our freedom, so that we would now give some globalist organization whatever its name is, the World Health Organization, Bill Gates, don't know what, not to be rude here because this is an honorable home, so you won't get away with it. You won't get away with it. Is that conspiracy theory now? Is that a conspiracy theory? That's what Bill Gates said dead, cold, man said it, said the pandemic has 0.2% mortality. That's what he said. And when we were talking from this place, it was attacking us. Just like our colleagues from We can have three shots of the shots of Grumoja and me here to put on a mask, we got over it, tested every day. Attack us put on masks, put on masks then the headquarters told them no longer to wear masks and people come here without a mask in the assembly in two days. What geniuses of logic, geniuses of logic. Is that a conspiracy theory? Is the conspiracy theory almost 3,000 scientific papers that speak about the problems of those who have been vaccinated and about the vaccine, is that a conspiracy theory? The Croatian people will not allow the administration of their country to any globalist organisation. We have legitimate authority, we're going to have elections, let everyone who thinks they'd like to manage the election, get out, take responsibility for running the state. In 1687, on this day, the Croatian Parliament said, declared St. Joseph its protector, so in which times we live and rule in opposition, let us indeed be helped by the defense of St. Joseph.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103344	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns of Honored Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103345	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Sanja Garić, her brother Milan Garić, Dragan Ramljak, Drazen Cečura, Boris Antičević, Sanja Križanovic, Augustina Grebenar and her brother Velimir Grebenar were the names and last names of eight children who had never had the opportunity to finish high school, never had the opportunity to get to know the world, never had the opportunity to get married, never had the opportunity to have their own children and experience their children. They did not have the opportunity because on today, June 10, 1993, their young life was suddenly interrupted by an enemy grenade in this case by the BiH Army. Namely, it's about the children who were killed in the Knights. Despite a signed truce between the BiH Army and the Croatian Defence Council about 20 hours and 45 minutes, a shell flew from the BiH Army's 120mm position and dropped 2m from 14 children in a play on the children's basketball court. Five were killed on site, and three children aged 9 to 15 years were injured in a hospital hospital. The other six children were wounded. The destructive power of the grenade was seen by parents identifying their children by clothing and clothing. No one's been prosecuted for the crime yet. The Knights themselves built a monument in the form of number 8 with a memory of children killed without any support from the official state of BiH. I will read to you this time a part of the text of Mark Grebenar, the brother of the injured Augustine and Velimir in this criminal pirate. The earth burns, the stone shoots, and 15 of us were at the basket. I hear screaming and crying kids, I can't see them. I just smell smoke and spilled blood. My parents are running towards the basket and I hear screaming again, crying, crying again. A nice and quiet, sunny day has become the worst nightmare ever. Mom's looking for her brother. She can't see a thing from a black man. Dad finds me and takes me in his arms and cries. I'm asking my dad where the veil is. He cried and said, Tina's gonna be fine just don't close your eyes. Daddy running takes me in his arms to save my life because I'm wounded, badly wounded but unconscious of my pain. We got to the infirmary and they asked me what my name was, who I had from my family. I had the strength to say that I had an older sister, Diana, and a brother named Wella, who was wounded. That's when I just looked at my dad. He pays and just tells me Tina's daughter will be fine, I'll save you. I couldn't take it anymore. I closed my eyes and fell asleep on his shoulder forever. I was the youngest, little Tina's favorite. The knight, the earth burns, the stone shoots for the hatred of our enemies. I wonder why it's our fault? Why did we lose our lives so young? Why are we victims of someone's hatred? Why do our parents suffer for 29 years? Why are our parents dreaming about us and we can't be with them? Why is the enemy still at large? Why are our lives worthless to someone, a piece of meat? I have a million more questions why. I don't have an answer. No one's responsible for our lives, it's just a memory of us. Every tenth June of the year, our names are pronounced, and that's all. Parents in pain and sorrow remain alone. Eight of us are facing justice and an answer. We are an example of innocents with a pure heart. In war, infrastructures are destroyed, family houses, residential buildings are destroyed, factories are destroyed, and what is worst people lose their lives and the worst of the worst when they suffer is the death of innocent children. In the Homeland War, 402 innocent children were killed. In the war in BiH, more than 3700 innocent children were evaluated. To all of them, I have read the names of these eight children today. May all eternal praise and glory rest in the peace of God.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103441	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103442	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Good afternoon, everyone, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, it's Friday so we can run through the week again. In Stari Vlaško and newly baked pedestrian zone in the center of Zagreb, the unknown artist painted and painted for days, I saw him several times, paint in spray and a piece of cardboard embellishing tank barriers from the watchful recycled concrete even drew a few blue caterpillars on the cracks and multicolor asphalt with a few drops of paint. If it was a bold intervention of an anonymous artist, perhaps in Zagreb he hosted the legendary Gratifier Banksy or still organized everything by our mayor for the celebration of the first year of his impressive rule to the capital of Croatia. The question is, if all of this was covered by the city, whether a tender was called, what that contest looked like, who won it, whether it was paid, how and by what means the questions were that we would ask in the days to come. But I am afraid that this question will probably run out of answers just as the Zagrebs will remain the Old Vlaska as a symbol of incompetence and simple expression of ignorance. In the second part of the agenda, I decided to deal with poetry and dedicate it to one representative in the Croatian Parliament who, in front of the public and all of us here, is experiencing real and amazing catharsis, recorded flash of records and exact epiphany. He yells at his former colleagues so they can be ashamed. I will dedicate a few lyrics to him from the song of Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević. That's why you lay so softly, that's why old age passes to you today as in the bark, in the corner of the corner as you're told, but that's why your paws don't go bad. That's what it means to be a dog's great boss, the easiest thing to do is to be a paw of tails. You've got a whole fifth but you've got a greasy sausage burning for you. I guess if he doesn't recognize himself, I'll meet him somewhere in the hall, and I'll remind him. A more serious topic is the fact that a former Lieutenant Colonel of KOS, Counterintelligence Service, was arrested at the border crossing of Tovarnik in an attempt to enter Croatia or at entering Croatia and raising a Croatian pension. Vojislav Medic has been fully proven, and here we have a colleague of Mlinarić, and his regret has been felt by many other Croatian defenders and it is known that he worked in a camp in Sremska Mitrovica, tortured, investigated, followed and harassed Croatian fighters who defended their country. So once again, we're going to ask the question here, or we're going to ask the thesis first. That man has a Croatian pension. Process some more of this information for a while. That man has a Croatian pension. If we're going to say some things once and for all, well, that's enough. As for the Transport Act that is here today, we haven't been able to explain our amendments, obviously by ruling it for a while, we are reminded once again of the terrible fact of the responsibility of the family doctor within this system and, of course, we expect and are afraid of the possible white strike of the entire family medicine system because I see absolutely no reason after we wait for the famous regulations of the ministry that the doctors of family medicine absolutely all their patients are enlisted in the MUP system asking that they be suspended for a certain period of time. Well, they've seen it. Now for the end of the week to have something to think about at the weekend I leave you a true rose of beauty. Namely, our ruling HDZ revealed the beauty of all but most communities. Whoever took a little look at their program could see a very interesting thesis. It says, I quote, we respect all communities of family life based on mutual love and concern," that I do not go on, apparently ruling the new programme to recognize the family as a family regardless of whether this family was married in an extramarital community or in a life partnership. So if you see two happy same-sex people holding hands from today, it's possible that they're members of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103570	The next statement on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representatives Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103571	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today I will talk about the needs of the most vulnerable in our society, which are persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. They've been forgotten about so-called. the social care reform package, and these are users of benefits for help and care which are now almost 100,000 users. It is a full-scale fee of 600 kuna and 420 kunas in a reduced range, and users are children and adults with a degree of health impairment of 3 and 4 degrees. The basis for the calculation of the guaranteed minimum fee from 800 to 1,000 kuna has been increased, however, the basis for the calculation of other benefits in the welfare system remained unchanged in the amount of 500 kuna. A personal disability of 250 kuna has been increased, the criteria for achieving this right have changed, but the beneficiaries of the aid and care allowance have not received anything in the reform. We believe that there is a need to increase the basis for calculating other rights in the social care system. Here I primarily think of the aid and care allowance and the basis for all rights to be harmonised by the government once a year in terms of inflation, and not that it would happen to us that the last time the basis for the calculation of the social care system was increased was in 2014 and only now after 8 years a new decision is made. What about the past period, the socially endangered families and all the increasing cost of living, and where was the social state? We ask that compensation be increased and the beneficiaries of the surcharge be included in the circle of users who exercise the right to the threatened buyer of energy and that, with users guaranteed minimum fees, personal disability, unemployed Croatian defenders, members of their families and users of national compensation for older people, also receive compensation for the threatened buyer of energy. As regards the provisions relating to the administration of money rights, for the threatened buyer of energy, these rights are being administered by all new users at social care centres, which we find inadmissible and ask that the administration of these rights is carried out by the county, and for the administration of the users of national compensation for older persons, the administration shall be carried out by HZMO in order not to impose additional administrative burden on professional workers and to leave them room for work, for family and provision of services and providing professional support and assistance. Furthermore, yesterday, we had a Committee on Family, Youth and Sports thematic session Protection of Children's Rights with Developmental Disabilities and their parents where the citizens' initiative of children with developmental difficulties of the Association of Shadows and Association Palčići presented its request to increase the financial compensation for childcare leave with severe developmental disturbances from current 2,328 kuna and 20 lips to a minimum of 4,000 kuna. The SDP club, of course, supports this request and is in fact a warning and an indicator of what they are constantly ruling to do in creating their policies and increasing certain fees such as this was maternity leave for others, others have forgotten certain categories, and this is primarily meant by persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. What the citizens' initiative proposes is to increase the compensation of 5,094 users of 8.5 million kuna more at an annual level of approximately 100 million kuna or less than 0.1 of the total state budget. There are needed funds, but bad implementation policies and bad planning. For example, we warned of compensation for older people, the national fee was planned in 2021 to amount to 134 million kuna 210 thousand. The funds are reductions in the rebalancing rate of 88 million kuna because of the planned 20,000 users we now have 5,853 users. So the funds are also, and there were then but they were poorly planned, and those funds that were reduced were not redistributed for example, and could have been for this item. It's all an indicator of really bad, bad care, bad planning and a non-existent system and support of the social care system, early intervention on the logo for what 3 years, they're all [[Intruder: Time.]] those problems for which the minister must finally find his hearing. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103665	Following is the position of the Croatian Representatives' Club of HSS and the RF-respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103666	Good afternoon, everyone. These days, a draft draft of the new Labour Act, the Labour Act, which has been working in secret for two years, which was initiated in the covid crisis, has again been leaked in a way that has tried to suspend most of the provisions that protect workers, and has happily responded to the international Confederation of trade unions, and we know that our prime minister only reacts when the note comes from the EU, and this has been cut off in extensive talks with the social partners. The draft leaked several times what we saw was terrifying, but what we now see in the media is beyond, we cannot describe it in some Croatian nice words. So it's announced no less than that in exceptional conditions, workers will only be paid 70% of their wages under the law. So your house is broken down, but it's not your only problem you'll have to feed yourself and your family somehow, because 30% will be paid less. You're sick, so it's not a problem, it's even bigger your problem that you don't have money to pay for health care because it's going to be privatized. Your house is flooded, but you have to ask for a loan to feed. Anyway, we're going with old paved steps where actually the Labour Act of Government protects employers, protects capitalists whose only goal is to peel off workers, and it's not at all how much that capitalist made profit that month, it doesn't even have to justify itself, it can only cut wages 70% because profit seems to be a constitutional category. This cannot be touched, and the right of workers to the basic needs of life, to meet the basic needs of life seems not to be. But it's not the only horrors of this labour law that we're about to get in the draft eAdvocacy, by the way, the government is late, so this is the last deadline to issue a release with this draft of the labour law due to compliance with European directives, and now it's obviously going to exceed the deadline, but it's easy for the deadlines, what we saw in the draft itself previously meant was terrifying, and it said this, so you don't have any more working time and hours to schedule than you have predictable working hours, somewhat predictable working time, unpredictable working time and an entirely unpredictable working time category, which means that the employer has no obligation at all to inform the workers a week before his schedule, can be held for 24 hours. But if she can't say that she has a sick child or has older family members to be devoted to, usually women unfortunately take over in Croatia, then she has a chance to work part-time, but of course for half a salary. In other words, the flexibility of work does not go at all to the benefit of workers, working from home in the event of an epidemic, etc., but only for the benefit of an employer who will be able to make the actual productivity of workers and working hours associated with pay, so you did not work as much as you should, although not guilty yourself, is not the worker who determines how much he worked that month but the employer has to organize the work, but you will do less, but you will get less pay. We also had this in the case of minimum wage, minimum wage law, trying to pay minimum wage workers less than minimum wages in those months in which the employer does not work enough, so in other months he will probably eat more, and the second month will eat less because the minimum wage barely meets the basic needs of life, but it does not satisfy the minimum wage is 25% of the basic living needs in Croatia. In any case, the RF is waiting for this draft labour law, we have handed over before the labour law initiative our draft amendments and the addition of the 50 amendments in which we go in a completely different direction, so we protect workers, reduce working hours and ensure decent working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103697	And as we have announced, we are going from: - By taking a stand, the first is registered on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u103698	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Almost two months ago, I was talking about the current problem of emergency medical assistance, or the workers of the same staff, who are asking for the right to an unfettered internship, the expansion of the emergency service network, the establishment of a task force to develop a T2 specialisation plan and join the sanitary transport and psychological assistance. In fact, emergency medical care is the only emergency service in Croatia that does not have an underprivileged job despite unimaginable stress work under extremely demanding working conditions. Every Monday at noon, they lit the sirens from the ambulance as a sign that their cry and request were heard to meet what they deserved, and they also published pictures of the ambulance in order to indicate the stress and conditions in which they worked daily. It really speaks a lot of things about the country where we live when the state itself cannot see that such a hasty service, I repeat also the only one, which is hard and to imagine there is no unfettered work experience, as well as that the only way to show and awaken the ministry protest every Monday with the culmination of protests in Zagreb right here in St. John's Square. April 14th. What may be incomprehensible and unimaginable in any other country in Croatia is the reality. And what has already been suggested then is that the Minister of Health, along with his team and director of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, will call on emergency medical representatives and try to calm the situation. What was not suggested is that the representatives of the emergency in live 194 and the Croatian Medical Union will submit their bill to the professional services. Yes, you heard very well, the representatives of the E.R. and the Croatian Union of Medicine have done the work that was to be done by the Ministry of Health. All stressful situations faced daily by severe car accidents, resuscitation, different life-threatening injuries, heart attacks, strokes, so every second is crucial, each of their working days is unpredictable, dynamic and literally have to give 100% of them not only physically but mentally, because as we know in situations where someone needs urgent medical attention every second is crucial. And it is precisely from these difficult situations of life that they need to be provided with the psychological help these workers seek themselves because, as they say, they have no one to share what they experience daily because after each intervention comes the next potentially even more difficult and worse. So their job comes down to getting even more stressed out of stress. Emergency medical workers deserve their law to provide them with whatever they need. These same employees deserve both public and sincere support from the director of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute. In addition to all these, they also wrote a bill that passed a review by the Ministry's Legal Service and concluded that some other analytical data needed to be collected in order to make the law even more quality. This is proof that you can and do not need to insist on the elaborate to be done by each county, although some of them are and did not need any other rush service that has the right to an unfettered employment. As I said before two months ago, I will repeat that the IDS Club strongly supports the fight of emergency medical personnel and this way we appeal to the Ministry of Health for the law to come to the debate by the end of this year so that everything that our medics are fighting for and all that our medics deserve from January 1st next year. Time's gone because they've been waiting too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113323	Good morning, everyone. We continue as we announced by the amendment. Pro is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, second reading, P.Z. Number 249. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Katarina Peovic and MP Dalia Oreskovic. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak. Amendment 1. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113324	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's unacceptable. Therefore, the implementation of the self-valuation process so far has shown that the 7-member quality commission is not operational and efficient enough and that it is unclear which of the 7 members of the commission is responsible for the operational implementation of the school-level self-valuation process, since the directors were not in those commissions. Therefore, in the final draft of the law, it is proposed that the Quality Commission has 5 members in order to make it more efficient and meaningful because the Commission monitors and values the self-valuation process. The final bill with the existing quality committee proposes the formation of both a new body and a school team composed of 3 members appointed from the order of teachers and professional associates. The school team will carry out an operational self-valuation process at school and manage this process and report to the quality committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113325	Here, there is no representative, Peovic, and then we will vote on this amendment. 2. of the amendment to Article 13
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113326	It's unacceptable. Article 31 of the Law on Professional Education, which has not been amended, stipulates that during the course of learning based on the work of the employer, students shall be entitled to an employer’s award in accordance with the time spent, and the employer may additionally reward the employer with a prize greater than prescribed. In addition, Article 8. The rules on the way and conduct and teaching in vocational schools are prescribed, among other things, that the contract on the implementation of a practical course concluded by the employer and the learner or parent or custodian necessarily contains the minimum wage of the payee in accordance with the time spent to achieve the practical part of the curricula in the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113327	There's no representative, so we'll vote on the amendment. And there's still amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113328	It's unacceptable. These articles are related and the explanation is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113329	Okay, just like there's no MPs, then we'll pass the amendment on to the vote. And we have an amendment to MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113330	It's unacceptable. Learning based on the employer’s work can be done in economic operators and licensed crafts. Under the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education, adult agencies may carry out professional pedagogical and other professional supervision of the work of educational institutions and educational institutions of others in accordance with the law and statutes, the Agency shall not have the power to carry out professional supervision in economic operators and crafts. The intensity of the provision is to include all relevant stakeholders responsible for education and the economy and crafts through the Committee for Supervisory Oversight.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113331	Thank you. These are the amendments to... Also, as it is gone, then we will vote this amendment directly and indirectly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113332	We are now going to vote, the first item is the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Professional Education, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 249, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Katarina Peovic and MP Dalia Oreskovic. The amendment statement was made earlier in the session, so we will first vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, but we have two requests for a break for now. The first is the respected colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113333	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF club for 10 minutes to warn about the Law on Professional Education, but also a very important fact. I don't know if you've been following the media our prime minister announced today that he is and that HDZ is for the social market economy. I think that's where we should clap. But what is important here is to say the social market economy is not market socialism if someone could translate it into other terms, but it is certainly an economy that cares about its citizens. Well, now this Law of Professional Education shows you colleagues and colleagues how that's not the case. So this is where kids learn from high school that we're not exactly in any social state but that they need to work a lot more hours for much less pay, and that's the message we got yesterday when some information about the new Labour Act is leaked, no less than the new Labour Act predicts that workers are paid 30% less in extraordinary situations. It's an epidemic situation, an earthquake, a flood, so a man's house will lose in an earthquake, but it's not the biggest problem, he's gonna have to watch him feed his family because the minimum wage doesn't even cover 25% of the cost of his life, and now he's gonna get 30% of his salary. So this law tells us that high school students are told that their qualifications should be brought into line with the famous labour market without any analysis of that labour market. It's all full of market globalisation and qualifications, and at the same time the High School Education Quality Commission It's a professional decimation. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113334	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic, the break has been approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113335	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club to further consult and re-emerge one problem that we consider to be constant for some time, which is discrimination against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia based on territoriality, which is not positive. And here this happens with students which is particularly worrying because this law also calls for a measure 2.2 where support is provided to students of the scholarship system for deficiting professions, especially in less developed areas. We are in favour of helping those weaker property status regardless of where they are, then it is positive discrimination and people need help because there are geniuses regardless of the home budget and they need help. And let's stop more of the process of deciding to get support through territoriality and the development index. It happens to us with municipal infrastructure, it happens to us with eu projects in various spheres and municipal and social infrastructures, but let's not do that with students themselves. And that's why we've been looking for a break for 10 minutes, I hope it's approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113336	And this break is approved, but we will comply. 293.b keep working, so let's go with the amendments. We have three amendments to respected counterpart Peovic and one amendment to respected counterpart Oreskovic, none of them are accepted by the government, so we must vote. 1st Amendment of MP Peovic. He didn't get the votes he needed. 2. Amendment of the same agent. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 3rd amendment is re-legislator Peovic. He didn't get the votes he needed. And one amendment to MP Oreshkovic, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are therefore now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 23 abstentions and 26 against, have voted, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113431	Following is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications, Second Reading, P.Z. 250. The promoter is a government. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Damir Bajs and Green-Left Block Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113432	Both amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113433	Excuse me. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113434	Yes, it's acceptable for both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113435	He accepts. And Agent Byce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113436	It's unacceptable. In particular, Article 14(1) does not contain a legal period within which high schools are obliged to decide on an independent implementation of the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education to be provided to the Agency for Science and Higher Education for the reason that the applicant considers that, in the interests of the effectiveness of the high school procedure, it must inform the Agency responsible for science and higher education without delay. If the deadline was 30 days, there is a possibility that the applicant of the recognition application would not be able to meet the deadlines in the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113437	There is no representative, so the amendment will go to the vote. Representative, Green-left bloc advocates' club, their amendment, 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113438	It's unacceptable. In fact, higher schools can carry out records through a central application office in the Agency responsible for science and higher education or on its own. Accordingly, the applicant did not provide for an exception but options for carrying out the procedure on which the high school must be demonstrated to the Agency in order for the applicant to have, in one place, information to be submitted to the body for recognition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113439	It's an indication of the amendment, the green-left one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, we don't even predict that the agency would not report to the agency, that kind of procedure. Rather, this amendment would strengthen the situation so that, apart from the agency responsible for science and higher education and higher education, it can carry out the recognition process on its own. That provision in the law would be clearer, more precise, more concrete. And that's why we proposed that amendment. And of course we're staying with that amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113441	Okay, we'll let it go to the vote. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113442	It's unacceptable. The applicant for recognition shall not be able to choose whether the request will set up a higher school where he wishes to continue his education or the Higher Education Agency. Accordingly, there is a need for Article 2. in which it is called for the proper application of Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113443	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113444	Thank you. So this is the extension of our first amendment to which we edit the whole article. 14. and we believe that in this way the whole process of recognising higher education diplomas is clearer, more concrete, I repeat and do not exclude what you are talking about, therefore we remain with this amendment and we will ask for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113445	... Exhausted that amendment to that law, followed by a statement on amendments, you are free, thank you, [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u113446	Final proposal of the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 250. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Damir Bajs and Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. We have held a statement earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. In turn, the Legislative Committee adopted 2 amendments and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendment of Agent Byse's government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We also have two amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept them, so we now vote on the 1st amendment. He did not receive the required number of votes and the 2nd amendment of the same club of representatives. He didn't get the votes he needed. And we are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications. Please, let's vote. I find that 125 MPs and representatives voted, 96 for, 29 abstentions, and the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications was passed. Proposal for a Law on facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute serious crimes, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 277. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. The vote was again voted by 125 MPs and MPs, 80 for, 43 abstentions and 2 against, which means that a conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114001	Thank you. We are looking for a break on behalf of the green-left block for 10 minutes to once again warn that the reports you provided are clear that in 8 years we used only 47% of the funds and that in the next 2 we should use another 53%. And besides pulling less than 50% of the funding, we also warn of the fact that grant tenders are created in a way that neither the quality of the project nor the project target is valued, but only the quickest finger. In addition to that, information comes from the field that those who are in the so-called. The HDZ vertical, therefore close to HDZ to any unit of local self-government, whether privates receive information about competitions far earlier and that the adjustments granted by SAFU are granted unfairly and unfairly. It is a great example that I will repeat once again when the local self-government unit was corrected at 25%, which is more than 300,000 kuna for found irregularities which consisted of the chair they ordered being 5 centimeters larger than the one mentioned in the contract. In addition, I would like to point out that there is a period ahead of us in which we should use NPO funds, and that the operational programmes for the financial perspective that took place last year have not yet been written, so it is the impression that once again only HDZ verticals are important that should decide how we spend tens of billions of kunas that should finally lead this country forward. Which, unfortunately, if it's going to be again, it's not going to be possible with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114002	Okay, I approve of the party, but let's hear what HDZ's verticals say, the respected MP Pavic is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114003	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, so I'm glad that our colleague Kekin told the EU funds where you're so good at leading the Srebrenica that one of the key projects is a disaster, you speak the wrong numbers, the minister clearly said 125% paid, agreed, 71% paid, 55 billion kuna we're in plus, we're going to get another 5 billion kuna next week, 60 billion kuna under the National Recovery Programme, we're 5 in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114004	Thank you, colleague Pavić. You're getting a warning. This was a replica. My colleague Fabianić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114005	Dear President of the Assembly, you insulted your colleague Mark Pavić because you called him HDZ's vertical, and he is a respected parliamentary representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114006	No, no, you're not careful, you didn't listen very carefully I told you to hear what HDZ's verticals say, the MP will turn, so he's part of that vertical. We have a lot of things. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114007	The Honored Chairman was injured in Article 238, a colleague named Pavic went here to insult MPs and to deceive the public. In fact, when you mentioned Silverstone, did you forget that the government is also a co-signator of the contract through the resolute ministries. Here's your resorient minister when I asked her a direct question, and I gave her manipulative information that the project was not self-sustainable. See what she said back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114008	Comrade Oreshkovic, you are being warned, this was also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bencic, here you go. The microphone, the microphone, the microphone, you need to turn it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114009	The violation of Article 238, my colleague Pavić, here I see that he is objecting to expertise, so let's talk. You want to talk about the Srebrenica, you want to say how the government's been treating this project from the start, you want us to quote what you said about its sustainability, you want to show how you blocked the project, how your verticals with privates work, or do you want to talk about it? Who are those who get projects in the first thousands of milliseconds? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114010	Thank you very much. Comrade Bencic, you get a warning, you hurt the Rules of Procedure too, this was a replica, but here we go again, Mr. Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114011	Thank you very much. How about I go home without warning. Article 238, therefore, regrettable that so few European funds have been used, but here are experts from the Green-Left bloc who have managed to pull back on my knowledge of over 500,600 million kuna activities. It's a good model maybe they should take care of it, but it wouldn't be good to spend it on travel orders and on trips like you spent, it would be good to spend on the benefit of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114012	Comrade Skoro, you are now getting a warning as we have already announced. Let's vote again now. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that 122 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 13 abstentions, 32 against, have voted, so it was concluded that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114671	Followed by a statement on amendments, you are free, thank you, for the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 199. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Dario Zurovec, MP Dalia Oreskovic and Green-left bloc MPs' club. Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic, Committee on Law, Amendments to the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114672	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114673	It becomes an integral part of the law. It's the second one, it's the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114674	She's four, we're all in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114676	We accept the legislation four times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114677	Okay. The amendments to the amendment of Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114678	The amendment doesn't, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114679	First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114680	The amendment is not accepted. Reason, amendment proposal is not acceptable, Art. The final draft of the law is fully in line with the provisions of the Directive of 2019. 1024 on open data and re-use of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114681	All right, Amendment, there's no statement because the MP's gone, he's going to the vote. Second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114682	The same representative, the amendment is not accepted. Art. The 17th final draft of the law has been fully aligned with the directive and Art. 6. Directives relating to the principles governing the payment of fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114683	He doesn't have a representative, so he's going to vote. It's these amendments, we're going to the amendment representatives of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114684	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 6th century 2nd final draft law is proposed to amend Article 16th century 3. in a way that clearly determines the types of information available to public resources that are available without conducting a test of proportionality of public interest unless the information constitutes a classification of data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114685	She doesn't have a representative, so she goes to the polls. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114686	It's unacceptable. Art. 12th final draft law amending Art. 28. The first law on access to information has been fully harmonised with the requirements of the directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114687	She doesn't have a representative, so she's going to vote. Green-left bloc representatives' club, their first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114688	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with that provision, the proposal of the Commissioner for Information shall be aligned with the general deadline for the resolution of the appeal under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which shall be 60 days. The existing period of 30 days in practice has proved to be objectively too short in particular in cases of the submission of a large number of identical and simultaneous complaints and complaints by the same user, and in cases of obtaining a first-degree file from the public authority for which more than 30 days is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114690	Thank you. So we asked to stay for 30 days for the simple reason we live in a time when information flow is incredibly fast. So all entities to perform their supervisory, media, corrective and research or any similar functions need information as quickly and as soon as possible, so extending that deadline simply isn't a good solution because at one point in 60 days, maybe that information that will finally get more simply won't have its effect, so we really ask that, once again, that this article of the law be returned to what it was, and that the time limit for giving information is 30 days, not 60 days. Thank you. We're staying with the amendment, of course, and we're asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114691	Okay, the amendment goes to the vote. Amendment 2 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114692	The amendment, thank you, is not accepted. The Commissioner shall have at his disposal an annual report, and it shall be necessary for the HS as the body to which the Commissioner is in accordance with the law to provide a tool to ask the Commissioner for a specific report on the specific subject which he considers necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114693	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114694	Thank you, yes, we do not see any reason why this interaction between HS and the information commissioners should not be extended to this possibility because, as an independent and supervisory body, the Commissioner for Information must have the possibility of communicating and seeking reports and having information in every possible form and therefore, we still think that such possibility is to expand such cooperation, and what is foreseen here is to constrain such cooperation, so here we are, of course, staying with our amendment and we will ask for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114695	Okay, we'll put it to a vote. Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the amendment debate with this. We are going to the point, the intended item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law on termination of validity, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114696	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know if you can say, the Rules of Procedure have been injured because the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the Transport Safety Act on the Roads have been made? We've submitted the amendments, we've discussed this law, we're ready here to propose amendments, I don't see any reason why the amendments are announced, and now they're gone, so, and the amendments have been announced, here we are waiting, all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114697	Well, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the government, when the government is being shown then we're going to put these amendments here for discussion, has asked for additional clarity and time, when you're notified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114698	Well the tribal is announced then that we know, I mean we're discussing the law... procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114699	Here you go, we're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114700	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 199. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Dario Zurovec, MP Dalia Oreskovic and Green-left bloc MPs' club. The statement we made earlier, we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, but before that we have a request for a break. Representative Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114701	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club for 10 minutes for consultation. Namely, without the right to access information that is real and realistic, and not just something that is written in the Constitution and the law, there is no real democracy and there is no possibility of controlling the government. It's enough to see what information that our investigative journalists are looking for, and I can't get it so we can figure out that this law doesn't take any necessary step either. It is not sufficient to transpose the provisions of a directive into national legislation if we have not previously regulated and prescribed what each public authority should have publicly published at any time without anyone asking them anything and without having to apply for access to information at all, and if that request is refused that the right must be exercised in long-term court proceedings. The right to access information is the very beginning of the fight against corruption, so I have submitted to this law an anti-corruption amendment proposing that all public authorities must have a published list of all payments from their budget, with the publication of a document which is the basis for such payment. Then a list of all contracts concluded with the public authority with the publication of the contract itself in pdf. the format, then the publication of job systematisation with data on the prescribed conditions for that job, so there are coefficients, there is the amount of pay, but there must also be published data on who has filled out the individual place of work in the public service. Thirdly, if, or fourthly, the public authority has the property then all the land-based and cadastrian data on that property, a description of its situation in nature, the information on who the real estate is using and whether any agreed fees have been paid. I ask that this amendment be voted upon and that the majority of opposition MPs support it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114702	All right, break's approved. We continue to work, so we will move on to the amendments, we have amendments to the Committee on Law, four amendments, the government accepts them all, and they become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We have two amendments to Dario Zurovec's representative, which the government does not accept, we must vote, the first amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the second amendment of the same representative, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We also have two amendments to MP Oreshkovic, the first amendment of the government does not accept, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the second amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the government, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And in the end, we have two amendments to the Green-Left bloc club, the government doesn't accept them, so let's vote first. He didn't get the votes he needed. And let's vote on the second amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to vote on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, excuse me, and before that, a colleague named Bauk, also called for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114703	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Law on the right to access information was one of the 10 last conditions that the Republic of Croatia had to meet when joining the EU, adopted in 2011 or '12. And I have to admit that at 10. It is one of the few laws that the HDZ government has failed to significantly corrupt. The law also introduces an independent institution "information commissioner". In the situation in society when we witness the occupation of independent institutions by the government or at least adoption as is the case with the State's Attorney's Office, the Commissioner for Information remained one of the few, with perhaps a former vehicular lawyer, former occupancy attorney, former child lawyer, former legal framework of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest and much of what is in the functioning of independent institutions in Croatia's former. What the president of the assembly said in the beginning about the worship of St. Josepha, he was modest and humble, according to Wikipedia, and these leaders of state bodies who abuse the law, who hide information are arrogant and rude and privatized by these institutions, and therefore we need this law and therefore we are closely following the changes in this law. One institution that assists in obstructing this law is the state's attorney's office because it constantly obstructs the publication of information by the HBOR, because of this, because of the mistrust in the functioning of those you have placed on the leaders and their boasting cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u114704	Thank you. Okay, then we will now approach the vote on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, please vote. It voted 128 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 51 abstentions, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the right to access information was passed. Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021. The applicant is the main state auditor, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2021 is accepted, please vote. I find it unanimous with 127 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parent working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115147	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, we are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to point out once again that the state of state of supply is far from good. Namely, since we all had a number of memories of State stockpiles affairs, especially in 2010, when several tens of thousands of tons of grains and olives disappeared from student silos owned by state supply. Today, we are told that not one kilo is missing, that in the last review everything is under control and that all food products are in place. However, it worries that during the time of the biggest economic crisis, a period of great uncertainty, we currently have only 67 warehouses of state stockpiles. Namely, the harvest is, will come very soon, winter will come very soon. Both Croats and citizens of the Republic of Croatia must sleep safely and peacefully and be convinced that there will be enough food in the state supply. The minimum need to be filled is at least 90%, and this way I appeal to trade and finally fill all these warehouses so that our citizens can calmly welcome the winter, but also once again I appeal that unfortunately many products were purchased at drastically high prices because they did not respond in time so that the oil was obtained at a price of as much as 16 kuna, a kilo of pasta at even a price of 12 kuna, and there they went to hundreds of thousands and millions of kuna, unnecessarily when the prices of these products were drastically lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115148	Stanka has been approved, Comrade Bulj, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115149	Thank you very much. The Croatian government did not respond in time to the stock reserves and, of course, to the self-sufficiency of food products, mainly in these crises. In the crown crisis of everything happened, so it was obtained from one manufacturer without public procurement, so we have this liter of oil, and 40, and 4 million liters is obtained, this liter of oil is for the stock reserves of 16 kuna, more expensive than in the store. More expensive than in the store, we're talking about 4 million gallons of oil, and that's why I once again invite everyone to make a dent, that at this point everyone and this egg that I brought in a few months ago are at risk. It is so big and important to our families, at this point it threatens to shut down all farms that produce eggs in the Republic of Croatia. And it's not some big number, and it is, 2 million eggs a year. Nobody's doing anything but the cereal we give the incentives, we export the vanca, and it costs five times that product that was made and sold to our egg producers, where the profit went to foreigners. And the Croatian state gives incentives. Gentlemen of HDZ and SDSS, these eggs will no longer be produced in Croatia and will not be kuna and two and not this terrorism, don't be afraid, this egg is a very important food product for every citizen, child before school because every egg gives the organism strength. So don't laugh, but you've put national interests at risk through import lobbys that send our products and grains out, and our stock reserves are questionable at this point and we're waiting for winter. unprocessed fields and you have prepared the sale of agricultural land. [[Thank you. Thanks, buddy Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115150	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much, the break is approved. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bujevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115151	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bulj has been misinformed several times, not only by all of us, all of us, but by the whole public, by this HS. So these performances we've seen ourselves, they're inappropriate and inappropriate, I'm asking you nicely to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115152	I'll have to warn you because my colleague Bulj had a vivid exposure, but he didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you hurt him, so I have to give you a heads-up. ... But I may now give my colleague Bull a warning, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115153	Thank you very much. A colleague, Bujević, was injured by an article. 238, otherwise she was cute with those statements so I find it hard to give this injury to the Rules of Procedure when she said they didn't need masks, that they didn't need masks, we see and now, don't wear a mask, it's the same crown here because the first grenade when Putin fell, when Putin fired, that's when the crown was burning. So I don't respect your opinions at all because you've simply been deluding the Croatian public all the time, and you're one of the reasons why Because of this crisis [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] which we have in our diet. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115154	You hurt the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning too. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115155	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. The only performance we've been watching for years when we're talking about stockpiles is the performance that we have for most foods, and three definitely, meat cans, pasta and cheese for just one bidder. So if we're going to talk about performance, then we can only talk about the performance of this government's haughtiness and self-sufficiency that prevents normal public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115156	Also, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica and you get a warning from a colleague. And in the end another violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115157	He's been injured. 238, a colleague says that Bulj insults Croatian citizens by warning of the fact that the stock reserves are not managed adequately, that at extremely high prices products are obtained while the oil was much cheaper, now colleague Bulj, costs even more in stores than that price, and it offends counterpart Bujević, And no offense to this situation. [[Thank you, colleague.]] which is unsustainable for Croatian [[Intruder: Comrade Grmo, thank you.]] Citizens. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115158	You're getting a warning. You've replicated it as well. Let's move on. Now, colleague Hajdukovic has asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I'm looking for a break to point out a few things. First of all, your colleagues and colleagues, I urge you to vote for a conclusion on the detachment of secrecy. Why? The locations where stock supplies are found of course should be kept secret, however, the content should not be especially not now, especially when in the small parts we saw they were being purchased and how they were being purchased there is a whole series of irregularities. Unfortunately, the system has failed. And I really can't believe it, I couldn't be surprised by the debates on the other side of the assembly that said that we were ready thanks to the stock supplies imagine you answered the covid crisis. So if memory serves me well, and it still serves remember the lack of masks, the lack of medical protective equipment that was imported or received on an intervention gift from China. Here's so much of our stock went up in that crisis. We want to talk about the 2020 earthquakes. Well, colleagues and fellow containers arrived from Turkey earlier than from our stock. If that's the triumph of our policy, then the State Stocks then we've really hit the srid. But to travel faster than from Zagreb, from a friendly country that I thank this time than from Zagreb, so they cross a thousand miles faster than I really don't understand. And now all our containers are still engaged in Banovina. God forbid something happens again, with which containers we'll answer, with which stock supplies we'll answer. It was only after the start of the war in Ukraine that the government approved a little over half a billion kuna for rebuilding the state reserves and we see how they were being spent. And that is why we need to consider seriously reforming the system and making the system transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115160	Thank you very much. We have another request for a break. Comrade Tušek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115161	I thank the esteemed president, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a break from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in order to return to the topic and measure, which is a report on the state and management of state goods stocks from 2020. But first, let me refer briefly to this conclusion that suggests that several clubs be adopted today along with this report. The conclusion is unnecessary with this report, as this report has been in parliamentary procedure since the autumn of 2021, since 9 months of debate on the Committee on the Economy and more or less, everyone is absolutely familiar with it. If you want to remove the classification from the State Audit Office's report on the management of the strategic commodity stock, then you should wait until this report comes into parliamentary procedure at all. But I just want to warn you that this is a report from the State Audit Office based on the Law on the Management of Strategic Stock Stocks that has been adopted... and who is in the second reading in the Croatian Parliament are going to make changes that will fully declassify these topics that are being discussed today and that will actually preserve the mark of secrecy only at those moments as you have already said, and these are the locations where the state supplies are kept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot has been said about the management of stock stores here today. It's a very complex, challenging matter. I just want to say that the State goods stocks in the context of the covid crisis and in the context of the world, which occurred with an earthquake with a very limited and small number of people did absolutely everything to ensure that the system was sustainable, in order to ensure a sufficient amount of medical and medical equipment, food, containers and everything else that was necessary. It's hard to plan such crises that have occurred, it's impossible to plan them, and I'm sure through those crises the system has identified possibly some problems, that these problems will be sort of solved in the future. But did anyone know that in 2019, we're going to need 3,000 containers in stock I don't think anyone knew that, that no one could have predicted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115162	The apartment is approved, but we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first fellow Bull again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115163	Thank you. A colleague injured Article 238, where he said it was discussed in 2015, so two thousand and this one, that's it. Look, I'd simply say that the mixed grain silos were, which were the stock reserves in 2010. Any debate without supporting the conclusions of this kind, to make it public. We don't even know the dispersion, the dispersion of the warehouse. What are the options for filling? Who's the one who's been peeking at more? Well, it hasn't been discovered yet that the helmets, the tons, the silos that went missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115164	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj. You're getting a warning. This was also a replica. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115165	Thank you very much. Article 238, according to counterpart Tušek in this country, is obviously all unnecessary, so it is unnecessary to discuss this report which, if we had waited for the ruling, probably would not still be on the agenda and the question if it had come. I agree that talking about 2020 at a distance of two years is a little groundless, but then by ruling you who are setting the agenda, think more about having to discuss such reports regularly not only about state goods supplies, but also about public defenders and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115166	Thank you very much. But the breach of the Rules of Procedure didn't happen, you hurt the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115167	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. Stock stock measures are survival options in times of crisis. And there's nothing complex about getting supplies during the covid crisis. However, you've made the procedure simple to the end, made it a secret, so we can talk here eventually about something criminal, and certainly not something complex because it's a permanent state of emergency that suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115168	Your colleagues Selak Rasudiæ receive a second warning. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115169	This Regulation shall enter My colleague, Tušek, has brought forth a series of lies. If the state stock had failed anywhere, it was precisely at an earthquake in Banovina, where in the first few days the citizens would indeed have stayed hungry if fans, naked Croatian people, had not organized themselves and gone to Banovina to help the victims. State stock supplies are absolutely off-limits here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115170	It's also a reminder. My colleague, Tušek, you have now requested the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115171	Well, here's the answer, Article 238. A colleague, Hajdukovic, said incorrect information, not true if you wish. So it is not true that on the basis of your request this 2020 report is in parliamentary procedure, it has already been in parliamentary procedure. Then the working bodies that mattered to him were on the Committee on the Economy, the public was informed and awaited the debate at the plenary session, so what you said was simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115172	You also get a warning from your colleague, Tušek. Here you go, pal Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115173	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, the gentlemen of the opposition are really trying, Art. 238. Public deception because according to their statements we should practically now have 100,000 containers on the lager in stock. Indeed, and if we get containers from Turkey it's only proof of good foreign policy. If we were to listen to you and your president, we probably wouldn't get anything from anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115174	You also get a warning from your colleague Shashin. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've got two of these, so it's the last time there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115175	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. In 238, where he basically humiliates parliamentarians where he says we're misleading the public. We're telling the truth, this liter of oil has been obtained by 16.00 kunas we tell the truth when you're talking, we're telling the truth about this egg that there will be five kunas Croats will not produce it that's true. And we've got so much crisis ahead of us, and all because of your irresponsible policy that affected the importer as well. Lobbies and the interests of Croatian agriculture. [[Adversity President: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115176	You're getting a third warning and you can't answer it now. You're losing your speech. My colleague Skoro asked for a break, too, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115177	I am Mr. President of HS, thank you very much, and I can't get a warning because I asked for a break. So, I'm looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia to once again warn the public about the importance of the goods reserves in the Republic of Croatia, and we all know and we're witnessing numerous affairs that have been born from a long time ago when it comes to the management of stock reserves and who have had their own court epilogue. What I'm trying to say is that I'm indicative of the use of sentences here with such ease of speech that could have hoped that Croatia would need containers. So who could hope that Croatia might also need oil, who could hope that Croatia will also need food products. That's why there's a stock reserve, which is why the report is being submitted, unfortunately, at a year and a half late. And it may be nice and funny to you, but a year and a half late is the thing that kind of became a practice in crisis management when it comes to your government because we're witnesses myself I was on the ground the second day after the earthquake in Banovina. We've organized these people's diet, and the government and the state are only 10 days away if they don't organize a diet for those people for two weeks. I've been there in that container, he's got 15 squares and thanks to the Turkish government, but there's two people who can live in those 15 squares, he's got a little bathroom, he's got a little kitchen, and they live in such difficult conditions that their food is delivered every working day except for the holidays. Well, I don't know if you know they didn't get a meal or that they ate cans for Christmas and New Year last year. So it's very important to take care of it and that, if necessary, you should get And 5,000 containers and 100,000. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115178	Thank you. Injury of my colleague Ivanovic's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115179	Thank you very much, Your Honor. He's been injured. In 238, my colleague Skoro is talking about hope and we were hoping that there would be at least 30 of those who signed this initiative here yesterday and asked us to discuss the report on stock stocks. There were five of them, and today they're blowing their brains out, the HDZ was 20 and they were arguing too much, and everything they wanted they could hear yesterday. But it was yesterday, they didn't have time, but here's the good-looking come to undo it a little bit. Card of the assembly and show up not to pay 150,00 kuna. [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Ivanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115180	You're getting a warning this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have two more requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Raspoudić, you have if I am not mistaken for two warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115181	Art. 238, yes, we're spilling our minds, and you're spilling yours, too, and I'm gonna be decent, so I'm gonna say what you got. Stocks are such that the kilo of cheese Gouda is paid for them especially 80,00 kuna, and the cynical explanation of the directory is that it is because it is bought cheese in ballots, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when you do not have bread eat the leaves of Gouda cheese.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115182	Note number three so you lose your right to speak too. My colleague Škoro, you will now likely achieve a secret desire to receive a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115183	No, I just wanted to say that my colleague Ivanovic wasn't using the rules of procedure but a replica, but you've already done it, so I'm withdrawing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115184	Well, then, nothing. Let's vote now. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the state and management of the stocks for 2020 is accepted. with financial indicators." Let's vote. I find that 120 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 14 abstentions, 29 against, which means that a conclusion has been reached that it was proposed by the home constituency working body. The SDP, Green-left bloc, IDS, HSS and RF and the Centre and GLAS have proposed to adopt the following conclusion: ‘It is binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to order, within 30 days of the adoption of this conclusion, the State Office for the revision of the designation very secretly from the findings and opinions of the State Audit as part of the review of the effectiveness of the management of the strategic stockpiles for 2019 and 2020. except for the table-numbered representations of the specific state of certain goods." Please vote. 123 MPs and MPs voted, 48 for, 75 against, so the conclusion was not supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115185	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of validity, excuse me. - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Code of Origin, first reading, P.Z. No. 285. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. The provisions of the 1992 Law on the home number of citizens with the 2022 novel have been arranged...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115187	I apologize, Secretary of State, I apologize, only one notice, because it's only important that we have one reported after, so I call upon everyone who has applied for a position that immediately after this point is finished, it will be a matter of taking a stand, only as a notice that it won't be too late for people. Thank you, I apologize to the Secretary of State. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115188	Thank you. Therefore, the provisions of the 1992 Code of Origin No. and his 2022 novel. It has been arranged to determine and give the number of citizens to Croatian citizens. The home number of citizens is otherwise the identification code of Croatian citizens who are used to connect data in official records. With the determination of the unique number of citizens, the name JMBG was then started in 1982 under the then applicable law. Since 8 October 1991 JMBG citizens defined in the Republic of Croatia with a registration number of 30 to 39 for Croatian citizens remained valid, and for Croatian citizens whose home numbers were set in other republics of the former SFRY they changed in numbers also with a registration number of 30 to 39, so they have the same numbers as previous Croatian citizens. The term i.e. the JMBG keybinding was used until 1 January 2003, and since then the term of the citizens' home number has been used. The number of citizens is registered in official records and previously registered to citizens' IDs, however, since 1 January 2003. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Citizens under which the home number of citizens can no longer be entered in the citizens' IDs has started to apply. As stated, the number of citizens is an identification code used to connect data in official records, so those records, which are based on specific rules, run by state authorities and legal persons who have public authority, and which are widely used as an identification mark in the private sector, mean different companies, banks, but also associations of citizens. 1 January 2009 It entered into force the Personal Identification Number Act published in the National Journal 60 of 2008. where the personal identification number of the so-called so-called ‘I.D.’ has been introduced. OIB as a permanent identification code of the obligor of that number used by the users of the identification number in official records, in daily work and in data exchange. The transitional and final provisions of this Act stipulated that the establishment and award of the OIB and the entry into official records of those Croatian citizens born in Croatia and legal persons established in the Republic of Croatia, established before the entry into force of that law, would be completed no later than 31 December 2010, so that within two years from the entry into force of the law, until the determination and allocation of the OIB remains in force and the starting number of citizens, i.e. the birth number of the legal person, etc. MB and system numbers allocated by the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. Although the establishment and assignment of the OIB to Croatian citizens was born, so before the entry into force of the law and legal persons established before the entry into force of the OIB Act ended by the end of 2010. and the OIB is regularly determined and assigned to natural persons immediately after birth and legal persons at the time of establishment, MB remained in use after 2010. During the years of use of MB citizens as an identification mark of a Croatian citizen, the large number of records kept by different bodies is based on the home number or there is a large number of business processes where MB citizens need to be enrolled to run the process as well as those systems where MB is required to control data. All of these systems listed above prior to the removal of MB citizens need to be adapted for use exclusively through the OIB which apparently required more time and resources. Since the OIB has entered full application so that institutions can use the OIB system to use other data contained in that OIB system such as personal name, date of birth, residence of a natural person, and institutions that have not previously adapted their systems for use through the OIB, so that the need for further identification of MB of citizens as other and as auxiliary identification codes now ceases. On the day of the expiry of the MB Act, the number of citizens of origin will cease to exist and thus it will be abolished that the identification mark for which, after I have said full entry into the application of the OIB, there is no longer a need. The number of citizens who, on a fixed date, cease to be valid, will not be deleted from existing records and will be able to be used to connect and exchange data in those cases where data connection is, when it cannot be carried out using the OIB, however, not as a basic and permanent citizen identification mark but as a control mechanism. Here, we consider respected MPs and advocates that these are sufficient, justified reasons to pass this law or to stop the application of the Law of Origin of Citizens. We had it in our system for a total of 40 years, 10 years in the former state, here's 30 years in this country, but after the full entry into force of the OIB, by connecting a number of records based on it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia maintains that there is no longer any need for this law and therefore proposes the adoption of this law on the termination of the Code of Origin. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115189	Here's a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115190	Since 1976, the Honorable Vice-President has started introducing JMBG, so the identification numbers of each other and we have reached the OIB in 2009. All Croatian citizens therefore all who have Croatian citizenship have the OIB. So, is there a solution, whether it has been considered that those Croatian citizens who are some other nationalities or live somewhere else have Croatian documents, have Croatian OIB and deal in Europe all and all, mainly with crime. Is it possible to take away their citizenship, take away, of course, both the OIB and the OIB, or, say, in the past tenseness has been spoken of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115191	Dear Sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115192	Just a little Secretary of State, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure before your answer. Dear Representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115193	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115194	Mr. Kira's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115195	At the risk of warning, I'd just like to correct Mr. Kirin's exposure because the OIB is connected to any natural person involved in payment traffic with the Republic of Croatia, so it's not about citizenship, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115196	Okay, you used it as a replica, so as you said yourself, you get a warning. Please respond to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115197	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, therefore the OIB is assigned to a wider circle of citizens, not just Croatian citizens. Therefore, the Croatian citizen is born as a rule to a small child, but also to a foreigner who acquired Croatian citizenship at the time of his acquisition of citizenship, the power of that solution is granted to the OIB and he is also enrolled in the books of the citizens and in the books of origin as well as in the OIB system. The OIB have said intro and legal persons as well as natural persons who are foreigners who have legal stay in the Republic of Croatia, so temporary stay, residence permit and work permit or permanent stay, but also foreign citizens who in Croatia, something similar to what Mr Fabianic said that closes certain jobs that come in Croatia. Croatian citizenship cannot be taken away by the basis of the Constitution so that even those persons you mentioned can not be taken away from Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115198	Okay, next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115199	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State, so in 2009, the Law on Personal Identification Number. It's been 12 or 13 years. In some state bodies, we have system numbers, OIBs, citizens' home numbers, so you can identify a person by 3 basics. Although we do know that we also have some data from the citizens' home number that may not be in line with the Personal Data Protection Act of the type of date of birth, years of birth, etc. Similarly, when filling out the public gathering forms, the OIB does not require data on persons but on the number of citizens. I wonder if after this, there will be any erasure in the information systems of the citizens' home number or whether they will continue to be employees of the disposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115200	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115201	Thank you. Dear Mr. Representative, I explicitly stress there will be no erasure of the citizens' home number in the records where they are already in place and will serve more as a control number, as a spare number if some information cannot be obtained on the basis of the OIB. There are also likely to be some laws where this number is also listed which were adopted before the adoption of the OIB Act as necessary for the provision of certain data. This will gradually be brought into line, i.e. the future of these special laws will require the OIB's non-recording number of citizens. This took a long time because many bodies with public authority were still not fully prepared. It may have been a little longer than expected to put out of force of this law, but we believe that all the conditions have now been met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115202	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115203	Thank you very much. The citizens don't know how many numbers they have anymore. So there's no service that doesn't have a number. Of the number of insurance companies, the number of these, the number of those, so this law that we're making in implementation essentially doesn't just stay meaning this OIB but will remain a number of other numbers, so they wouldn't fool the people. Let's say for the number of insurance companies you have to have another number. However, in order for this to be applicable then the OIB would be the number that will be attached throughout the system. But I don't know how many more years it's going to be that citizens don't have dozens, 15, 20, 30 or 40 numbers on various basiss. So basically from this law, I can't understand how much this public body will use and how many of these other bodies will not only be JMBG but also other basics of numbers that our citizens have because citizens themselves don't know how many numbers they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115204	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115205	Here's an esteemed representative, it's true they have some bodies with public authority to use and some other numbers, as you mentioned the number of insurance companies, etc. However, the OIB has entered its full application and there is no longer a need, anything can be determined and monitored through the OIB. However, I have certain situations that, for example, some persons have passed away before the entry into force of the OIB Act, and, for example, on the basis of it, family members, especially those who suffer from the Homeland War, but also others, family members use pensions or certain rights and therefore need not be deleted in existing records, but will no longer be assigned to new legal and physical persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115206	Thank you, Secretary of State. That's what we used up the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first reported on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115207	Dear Vice-President, respected by the proposer's representative, esteemed fellow MPs. The Social Democrats Club will support the abolition of MB citizens and I will use this first reading just to warn that part of the provisions that are related to the entry into force of the law itself. Namely, in this text as proposed, this law is intended to take effect one week after the day of publication, but if we look at how many forms in the Republic of Croatia are required by MB citizens, which many citizens unfortunately no longer remember, so they are looking for old licenses, old health cards, etc., I know that a lot of institutions are even silently tolerated that in the MB form is not met, but unfortunately it is still envisaged, which is normal at least until we abolish that regulation. The question is whether these systems that are not only state but local, but also what is part of private business can be adjusted in time within a week? I personally don't think he can. Let's say for example. We have a part of the printers that are not part of the official ones, so they are not published in the National Journal, certain requests, but we also have the printers that were published in the National Journal on the basis of some regulations and other acts such as: which is, for example, a log-out or change in HZZO, so it's a printing press published in NN, so a new printer without MB citizens, I'm assuming it should be published in NN, I think the system should be given time, so I expect that on another reading we will extend that deadline for entry into force. Here, that's why we have an example. Here's to having too many numbers as my colleague Bulj said, it's enough to look at a printer about a request for a family pension, a child's allowance or a personal pension, whether it's an early, full or classical age where a personal number of insurance companies is sought, an OIB is sought and an MB of citizens is sought. Furthermore, we can see a request for the purchase of an apartment owned by the Republic of Croatia, and this is where MB is sought and my home county is also looking in some cases for MB citizens. For certain forms here I happen to see that some insurance houses in some of their forms are looking for MB citizens, for the assignment of the OIB which we have already talked about is also required by MB citizens. I'm not a lawyer, but so I'm whether it's enough to keep these forms and just tell any of these institutions that I can keep old forms that I shouldn't just not be filled in and that's acceptable, and not to say that we have printers and other information about the home number of citizens who have all our public institutions and who are also on their portals and that should be adapted. And that's not the way it is and that people don't read NN and don't read newspapers or on portals and news, people will also not have the information that MB has been suspended, if we keep these existing forms because people don't follow the legislative body if they don't have to, they can be delayed if we keep those old patterns that will further confuse them, so maybe just because they don't have that number that won't be needed anymore, they'll still delay some urgent demands that may be vital to them. So I now appeal to the motioner to extend these deadlines by some estimate now it's hard for me to tell because I don't know how much the system of state administration works, but the fact is that within a week I doubt that we can put a new rule on individual forms, publish those printers, and then, within a week, it can be done. This may eventually be prepared between the two readings, but this means that we prejudge the outcome of the vote. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115208	Thank you. Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Respected Mir Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115209	Your Honor. Here I would agree with my colleague Eric in this section that we simply require in a number of procedures, either at all levels, in all bodies that have public authority we simply have numbers and we don't know how many we have. So I am also not clear on how to warn about how and in what time period we can get this law to apply because simply many of our citizens who will have to make demands for urgency and urgency will have to have certain old data so that I don't know how to adapt this system at all, and in what way most people who don't follow and people in rural areas that are even less monitored, they are even more difficult, less accessible public, public authorities with whom they have powers, so I don't know how this will work, I repeat in undeveloped areas again, how that grandmother from Svilai, Dinare, I don't know from the Gorski Kotar that is away from the centre at all, and when it comes very difficult to get to get to that body physically because it's remote, the traffic is not the best, in which way they'll be able to do this request because they will return them, the clerk will say that you will have to get back, and you will have to lose yourself. So that adjustment is very important they will have to and will last longer, probably this law itself will delay the very provisions of this law and these amendments. This erasure of the home number and, of course, I would point out here that when it comes to these numerous numbers that we have to have a full bag next to us, a bag of these old cards, old numbers, so I've mentioned the number of insurance companies and is not connected to the OIB at all, so we have a number of these problems and I don't know how to speed it up. As we've been creating preconditions for years in 2009, it seems to me that it's just not working, and so often I have this kind of problem that I see says that the OIB is protected, no one knows, no one can, I mean, this OIB is so visible, when you sign an ordinary petition means an unrelated petition but some I don't know you're putting your OIB, so that secretion of that data, these numbers are basically the ones under the questionnaire, let's say when someone tells me about information, the right to information, so let's say they're looking for 5,000 pages, they're all looking for everything, then the Triba deletes all of the OIBs. It's a complex job in us, so we have to work harder on it. However, I would just say here that unfortunately there will be less and less OIBs, less and less numbers, so that computers will cool off because if the state doesn't intervene urgently on the issue mainly at the level of the area mainly in this crisis so that it won't be very tiring that people will unfortunately move out so that exclusively and just look at people through numbers, and the numbers are simply what we're discussing, we're going to have problems, the decline of population, I don't know the statistical indicators, but we see that there are less and less of our people in those areas where the elderly are. So once again, I would have warned only briefly that this law would happen by this 7-day entry into force when we declare that nothing will actually happen, and now I don't know what would have happened better if something had happened if our citizens who had certain rights and obligations were to meet certain requirements would have that number or not have that number next to them, I am essentially repeating to the more difficult available areas, undeveloped areas where it is harder to reach public authorities where the distance of county centres, local self-governments, so I don't know which one, I don't know, I don't know what this application would tell you, but this law itself won't change anything, and sometimes the patterns if we change that some numbers will be the problem and the systems that exist, and the information systems that will be, and the problem will be our citizens because they will delay their demands that they have the right to achieve, and sometimes they will lose certain rights, we won't have everything at that moment. So once again, I think that in the state of public administration we need to make much better the main territorial same availability for all citizens, 2/3 of Croatia do not have the same availability, it may be a little easier to look from Zagreb at this and maybe when we talk from Zagreb to this pay phone maybe it is much easier to eat mostly all the bodies are in Zagreb, but in rural areas where they are less developed, it is difficult for certain people, groups to reach public, bodies with public authority, so we have to think in this direction and it is not only the law, if we are making the law we have to bring it exclusively for a man. What he brings to a man, the least human who is the most endangered and who will have the most problems and until we solve that last man, and while this most difficult case, this forgotten citizen, our citizen, our man who has originally remained in this undeveloped area, until we have an analysis of how he will accept all these changes, and also by eradicating this home number, I believe that this law will be as inapplicable as since 2009, simply inapplicable and all bodies from local, county, state-level, except for these densely populated areas, we are talking about the example of the City of Zagreb where all the power of the governance structure is essentially centralized, and that is why we have centralised development, and because of these things, and because of these things, we will simply not be able to reach the necessary and necessary rights of our own, but also the required rights, but also the obligations. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the application is also very important for this amendment to the law, i.e. Deleting the home number absolutely won't do anything this way if the terrain isn't prepared, mainly 2/3 of Croatia and people from that area because I know what's in the Dalmatian Zagora, I know what's in, here in Drnis there's a fellow mayor just called in, I know what's going on in those areas that simply people don't have the same possibility. And if they had a tribune for all the numbers, they'd have one bag of these old IDs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115210	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115211	Thank you, dear Vice President. In fact, the time has long come for the unique number of citizens to go into history. First of all, because it contained personal data such as birth date, birth and sex, which was also subject to abuse and therefore replaced by the OIB in 2010. The OIB consists of 11 digits determined by random selection. The OIB is also a permanent identification code of the personal identification number to be used and used in official records, daily work and data exchange. Therefore, it is clear that this is why the need to determine the parent number ceases. We have heard from our previous colleagues what will change from the moment this law is passed. They will not be much changed precisely because the OIB is in great use, in fact in constant application since 2010, but it will be easier for them, it will be easier for them not to ask for an additional number, which is the home number of citizens. And it's really true that there's still a demand for different institutions to represent the home number. Just as it is true that more I.D.s create confusion with our citizens than I said before. For this very reason, we have a firm view of how to change or abolish the need for a home number of citizens, and I do not see a problem in application 7 days after the law comes into force. I don't see the problem because we have a very active and widespread use of a personal identification number, and for that very reason we're just going to reduce some administrative procedures and we're simply going to end something that has proved to be no longer necessary. I would also like to point out, of course, that the OIB is fully in line with the GDPR Act, which is not the citizens' home number because it reveals the basic data of every citizen. And that is another reason why this law should be passed and put into effect as soon as possible and I repeat there is no reason why it will not take effect 7 days after the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115212	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115213	Thank you. How it is in 2000 and how it screams in the law of '10. It took 13 years to send JMBG into history. I hope it takes us less to send HDZ to the opposition, but it's not just up to us. This law is, well, 13 years old, this law is one of those laws that is good for a full Friday morning in the Croatian Parliament. The law that we all agree on and we think should be passed and now we can write, we can discuss whether it could have been passed before, could it have been passed later, but basically that's it. It might be a good idea for this law to have a number P.Z. in its parliamentary procedure. And then give him a P.Z. according to the rules of how a unique birth, unique home number of citizens is given, so that in a symbolic way it is the last to receive JMBG. Also in a public debate that was relatively short or relatively short, a citizen warned that some laws left to look for a unique number of citizens. It may not be a bad thing to add another article and transitional provision to the effect of this law or, by the termination of the law on JMBG in all other regulations that require, somewhere, a unique number of citizens in sublegal acts or in the general acts of some public or private institutions, that this will be considered to be a request by the OIB. So, so the citizens wouldn't be surprised when they find out they're looking for JMBG. I think even in one referendum provision, JMBG remains, and it is safe to file constitutional charges as it says in consultation with the interested public. And otherwise, regardless of the relatively precise legal rules on this, for example, to which public identity, many bodies or at least many public institutions may still be asked for your identity card. To my question why, they say so we can determine identity, and then I say but identity can be determined by driver's license, even an island ID says in the law, the passport says the same thing in the law. What's more, the I.D. Act seems to me to be such that the I.D. now remains valid because of the pandemic even after the expiry of the deadline on the I.D. Also, there was always a question, for example. why institutions are looking for a birth certificate not older than 6 months as if data had changed in the meantime. This will likely continue for some time with a unique home number of citizens, i.e. the citizens' home number and the OIB's. I have to admit, I learned my JMBG relatively simply because the first seven digits were the date of birth, for the OIB I needed a little more, but I also know it by heart because it began to look for it more and more often, it should have been more and more frequently signed up, and then, finally, when you started writing for the tenth time you started, you started to memorize it. JMBG, or OIB, or all that is the unique identifier or primary key of the database, as it was taught 30 years ago, is generally the data that is the same or the main data in all the databases in the citizens, therefore all the links of the databases are usually done through one such data and that is the OIB. And I hope that this information will have one beneficial effect on bureaucracy and that it will not ask citizens for a large amount of data that they have themselves or to be precise that they will be publicly available to civil servants what they need for daily work, which they will not need from citizens, but by the basis of the OIB, all relevant data will be visible to officials by means of access to various registers, but it requires an even better organisation. Since the law goes into two readings, although you are praying and in an emergency procedure does not matter, then we will repeat a similar debate one other Friday when it takes a full time to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115214	Following the final debate, he is the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Tomislav Okroš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115215	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We have before us a law that ceases to apply to the long-used JMBG. From 1 January 2009 It entered into force of the OIB Act, which introduced the personal identification number of the so-called ‘OIB’. The OIB, as a permanent OIB obligor, used by OIB users in official records and in daily work and in data exchange. I can freely say that my generation is among the last people that JMBG has learned by heart, and today it seems to be with the OIB. The adoption of this law will achieve several objectives, the day of the end of the application of the MB Act will cease to be determined by citizens' home numbers and thus the identification mark will be abolished for which, after entering into full application of the OIB, there is no need. The birth numbers of the citizens designated until the date of expiry of the Code of Origin shall not be deleted from existing records and may be used for the connection and exchange of data in those cases where the connection of data cannot be carried out using the OIB, however not as a basic and permanent citizen identification mark but as a control mechanism. In this way no one who knew their JMBG and learned by heart will be cut off. In the case of a person who died before 31 December 2008 or persons who disappeared or died during the Homeland Work or members of a family of victims of the Homeland War who died before the entry into force of the OIB Act did not and cannot be determined and assigned to the OIB because the same persons are not considered to be the bonds of the number. From this we see the importance of continuing to use JMBG, and as a connecting and control mechanism, i.e. the number of identifications. I believe that this legal solution ends one stage in which we have moved to a more quality personal data processing system with greater efficiency and more data protection for individuals. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115216	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115217	I thank the president. It would be extremely unreasonable and pointless not to support this law, but it would be even more pointless to miss an opportunity and point out that 12 years needed to adapt institutions to a new identifier. This suggests that at the time of the introduction those who introduced it did not have a clear picture of how JMBG works in practice, nor were they able to design and implement the OIB in an appropriate manner. Some of the modals we're introducing now could be introduced for the first time. This all confirms something that the sparrows of the branch should know, and that is that HDZ institutions and institutional action are in the last place, if you didn't already know what and how to do yourself you could ask people who work in the system. These are the invisible people whose knowledge and experience neither hears nor needs them nor respects them. And lastly, given that we have this law today at a time when there is a need to fill a hole before the vote to get the impression that HS is doing something, it comes to me singing lyrics, not your colleague Drele, I hope that you have at least heard about Alanis Morrisette and her song “Isn't it ironic dont you think”, so whether it's ironic that 12 years after the introduction of the OIB we are discussing and we can discuss the OIB in HS, but not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115218	With this, we've exhausted the debate, and I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115219	Proposal for a law on the termination of the Code of Origin, First Reading, P.Z. No. 285. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A proposal for a law on the termination of the validity of the Code of Origin and 1 shall be adopted. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, all were in favour, so it was unanimously concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the work of the Committee on Fiscal Policy for 2021, the applicant is the Committee on Fiscal Policy, on this item of the agenda we will vote in accordance with Article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the Committee on Fiscal Policy for 2021 is accepted, please vote. 114 MPs and MPs voted, 104 for, 10 abstentions, so that the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115224	More important is antifascism than the body.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-10-0.u115225	Maybe for you, I don't know how others do, thank you very much and goodbye. The session was interrupted in 12.58 hours. Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Before we move to a representative club position, I would just like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 125(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the 11th session included the point of the proposal to raise the issue of trust to William Beros, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia who proposed 32 representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
