ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u82891	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, good morning to you. Unfortunately, the circumstances have forced us to change the schedule of the debate. Yesterday it was announced that today we will discuss the proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226 ct. 2. I will first propose to supplement the agenda of the 10th session with 3 new points. You have received the proposal by electronic means and as appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure on the proposal to supplement the agenda was not adopted, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 10th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u93983	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, distinguished MPs, Peovic. Therefore, the above amendment is not accepted by the following argument. Therefore, the legal formal introduction of a population register cannot be regulated only by amending the Programme, so it is necessary to have legal basis, jurisdiction regarding the management of administrative data sources and the register itself and... to the Ministry of the Interior. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when adopting the last Census Act, the Proposer and the Government announced the introduction of the Register because we believe it is very important because it would be one of the important base registers and a key administrative source for the processing of statistical data, especially the implementation of the Census list on an annual basis based on these administrative sources. As for the second part of the amendment, which speaks of an increase in the number of administrative sources of data and the establishment of a database, it should be said here that they are obtained on the basis of surveying and polling on household consumption and population income surveys. They shall be implemented on the basis and in accordance with Eurostat methodological recommendations and international standards and classifications and therefore shall not be unilaterally modified with regard to the comparison and importance of compliance of all statistics at EU level and Europe, and as regards the base itself, it shall be made available by art. Six of these programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u93984	Here are the MPs, the obvious, but she's gone. No, you're free Secretary of State, no MPs, so they're going to have to vote on this amendment that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so I am voting on the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2021-2027. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 117 MPs and representatives voted, 107 for, 2 abstentions and 8 against, so we brought the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021-2027. We are now going to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, First Reading, No. 243. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? A unanimous 126 vote was reached to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94325	Thank you, dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes to point out once again that the Croatian Sovereigns Club is absolutely supporting itself, solidarity with the sufferings of the attacked Ukrainian people and the independent state of Ukraine, but at the same time, we want to make it clear that this debate should cover the initiative and the proposal in our 9-point Declaration, the 10th point to insist that both European and international institutions work together, and as HS, we should propose the establishment of an international war crimes court in the Ukraine area because it is now time for that. To prevent such situations, and not when crimes happen and we will give the Ukrainian people accommodation for whom they need, it is necessary for women and children, but men who are capable of fighting must remain in Ukraine, fight for the freedom of their people and the state of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94326	The station will be approved, but we will proceed immediately to work in accordance with Article. 293b and I now call on the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Cappelli, to present the text of the Declaration at the introduction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94327	Thank you very much, dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday something began to happen that we didn't think could happen in Europe in the 21st century. Russia has begun its zero-provoked military aggression and invasion of a friendly peaceful state, insinuating Ukraine's sovereignty and international law. It is important to stress that this is the biggest military campaign on Europe's soil since World War II and the most serious impact on the security of all Europe. Russia has also hit the foundations of a world order based on peace, stability and respect for the sovereignty and independence of nations and states. The HS Foreign Policy Committee held an emergency 17th session yesterday to discuss exactly the proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine, with the aim of showing solidarity, supporting Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in this for them and for all the peaceful world, an extremely difficult moment. Yesterday's session was also held at the 3rd session of the Committee on State in Ukraine in the last 2 weeks to discuss exactly the extraordinary circumstances in this friendly country, i.e. the military aggression of the Russian Federation that began yesterday early in the morning. Previously, as a Committee, and it is important to mention, we also adopted the conclusions of the previous two discussions, which we unanimously expressed concern about the situation in Ukraine and supported the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine in its internationally recognised borders, and also condemned the violation of international law by the Russian Federation. Today we are here ahead of us with a proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine, which is also the result of the unification of the ruling majority and opposition, in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and I hope that it will also receive uniform support in the same way as in the Parliament. Our goal is that, hopefully, you will all agree and give a clear message to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, that they are not alone and that they have friends in Croatia. Croatia itself was the victim of the brutal military aggression of Milosevic's regime three decades ago and therefore we know very well and understand Ukraine. Let us not forget, Ukraine was among the first countries to recognise the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign and independent state on December 11th, 1991. Mr. Now that Ukraine is a victim of aggression, it is in Croatia to be on the right side, on the side of peace, freedom, democracy, solidarity and international law. We therefore need to strongly condemn in HS any caused aggression against Ukraine and its sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence, and invite Russia to stop immediately with the military attack and withdraw its troops from Ukrainian territory. Following all this information, the Committee on Foreign Policy held on 24 February 2022 at the 17th session, discussed the current political security situation in Ukraine for the 3rd time, and decided to submit the proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine to the HS after all discussions were held. We see the unity of the EU institutions of the EU Member States and NATO. In condemning the aggression against Ukraine, committed by the Russian Federation as well as the clear support given by the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. At an extraordinary meeting last night, the EU Council approved a new package of targeted EU sanctions against Russia. The sanctions include the financial, energy and transport sectors, dual-purpose goods, as well as export control and export financing of visa policy, the extension of the list of sanctioned persons and the new criteria for listing. What is important is to stress that the sanctions package is made up of close competition, co-ordination with the closest partners and allies of the EU, including the United States and the UK. My colleagues and colleagues, seriousness, solidarity, quality debate, have proved that Croatia knows, can and will be unique in these difficult moments towards Ukraine and that it is unique in the European family. I therefore hope that the proposal of the Declaration will also receive unanimous support from the HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94328	Thank you to the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Cappelly. There's no replicas, so you're free. We're going to move on to the debate now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, a respected colleague of Bartulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94329	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, for the moment of truth yesterday. The whole world could actually observe and dread what was happening in Ukraine and we saw that Vladimir Putin was not bluffing. So I wouldn't agree that this is a big surprise, this has been preparing for months and needs more decisive and bolder, I'd say, react, given the situation that's getting worse by the hour. Apparently the Russian forces are already in front of Kiev, the capital. As for the Declaration, I think it's very good that we have achieved rapid unity, would say consensus, the Homeland Movement is certainly for, will vote for the Declaration because, I participated personally in the preparation of this document. It is also good that our prime minister and president can finally agree on a question and that they are able to sit at the same table. That too, we welcome. I'd like to remind you of some of the facts that preceded this moment. So since the collapse of the Soviet Union, many mistakes have been made, especially by Western allies, and we have to say that. So until 1994. Ukraine as one new independent state still had its own nuclear arsenal, it is a powerful means of deterring Russia from such a move, however, the Western world then, so US President Clinton, the British Prime Minister Major, convinced the country to give up that weapon and to actually destroy its nuclear potential and now we see that it was a devastating mistake and the Ukrainian people must bitterly, bitterly experience it. Russia, I remind you, is in an economic sense a country that has GDP about as much as Belgium and the Netherlands combined, so it's not about one force, at least in economic terms, and today we are in a situation where the whole world is suffering and waiting for what Vladimir Putin is going to do tomorrow. So the first mistake, that should be made clear is from '94, so-called. Budapest deal. So as for the sanctions and the Western reactions, I watched President Biden yesterday, he looked pretty anemic, a little lost. I think the way the American forces retreated from Afghanistan has even encouraged Putin to go on this military adventure, not to say criminally. Today, the British prime minister is offering refuge to Ukrainian President Zelenski. So this is what I'm saying because the question is what we've learned since the last 30 years because a similar fate has happened to the Croatian people. So even today's allies were unable to quickly condemn what Slobodan Milosevic was doing and it took time for them to understand who the victim and the aggressor were. At least today they understand it and can react quickly, but sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, are a little too late. So we hope that the Russian people will see for themselves what direction this leads and that they will stand up against such a policy and that sanctions in this sense may speed up this process, but from history, I would say, I can't be optimistic. As for Croatia, we welcome the government's decision to send help, I think Croatia must be ready to show solidarity in actions, so be prepared and accept refugees who will now flee from friendly Ukraine. However, these sanctions should be said to have consequences and implications for our economy. So I must say that Croatia is more vulnerable in this situation than it should be. Some things have been delayed too long, so I'll remind you that we haven't exploited our own gas sources for a long time, it's been falling for years and we've become too dependent on Russian gas, on cheap Russian gas. I personally organised a conference 3 years ago on energy security where friends from the Baltic countries spoke about their experiences with LNG and then I listened to the arguments from Croatian experts that gas, Russian gas is cheaper, as it is a reliable source, that this is not a cost-effective LNG project and so on. Today it turns out that LNG is a strategic project and a good thing to be implemented to the end. I'll just say it's very important to take care of the terminal's safety because it's going to be more and more important in the near future. As far as the environment is concerned, the lack of clear conviction by Serbian President Vukic, so one country that claims to be a member of the EU today and tomorrow is unable to quickly condemn what we are all looking at in Ukraine. So this raises great doubts about the regime's intentions and I would say that it is certainly justified that the Croatian government has decided to obtain military aircraft. All who criticized that decision and said that the money could be spent better should reconsider their views. So we still live in a dangerous world and the Homeland Movement will continue to support investment in Croatian defence resources and forces. In the end, I would say, we should all be aware that we share responsibility for this situation, Croatia will certainly not be that decisive factor in resolving this crisis, however, it needs to do what it can. And we will certainly support the government in that direction. However, the facts on the ground show that the situation is getting much worse, I fear the numbers we will hear these days about dead victims, so I express my support for the Ukrainian people in advance to endure, the Croatian people know what they are going through, we have experienced it on our own. In the end, God, watch over the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94330	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94331	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian citizens who follow us through the media, but everyone else. We are unfortunately witnessing that world peace and international order are the greatest temptation since World War II whose consequences unfortunately in certain parts of political life and international relations continue to be felt. Our relationship with these events that shake the peaceful world is even more emotional and traumatic because in the not so distant past we have experienced everything that residents of our friendly Ukraine experience. Nothing is caused by Russia's aggression against Ukraine and its sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence deserves the strongest condemnation of all of us. The aggression on Ukraine is also a precedent in international relations and raises the legal basis of the international order that has been built among countries for decades through global political associations, from the UN to numerous regional alliances and bilateral relations, often among countries of different political arrangements and historical heritage. And now that we were on the threshold of the 21st century in the belief that cold-war politics had become the past, it was unfortunately revived by the turn of the unrecorded war in history that Russia started against Ukraine. I am proud that the world's most difficult moments after World War II, the Republic of Croatia has shown unity, unity of the state summit, as well as all of us at yesterday's Committee of All Parliamentary Parties and Independent Representatives in HS. This is a strong message of support for territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. We must not forget and we will not support Ukraine when we have been exposed to aggression with the same goal and using identical methods. Although political and verbal support is a significant act in international political relations that puts us and this global crisis aside from good against evil, this alone must not remain. I welcome, of course, the government's willingness to, with full solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, provide humanitarian and technical assistance to facilitate and thus help them fight, not only for their state interests, but also for defending the international legal order. The importance of humanitarian aid primarily helped refugees who were forced to leave their homes to preserve their lives, the Republic of Croatia is the best witness, unfortunately for the experiences of the Homeland War and War in BiH when we took care of over 600,000 refugees and exiled from their homes, both in the area of Beautiful Ours, the Republic of Croatia and the neighbouring friendly BiH. We must not forget a number of worldly countries that received tens of thousands of exiled Croatian citizens with a wide heart. I remember the time of the Homeland War when R. Czech Republic received 1600 children from my area who were thus spared from traumatic war experiences and many human young lives were preserved. It's just one example of how we can help each other. Let's be ready, let's help. Finally, the National Minority Representatives Club strongly supports the Declaration on Ukraine of HS, as our human and political commitment and attitude towards the previously unrecorded crime, the Russian aggression on Ukraine, which challenges the international legal order and threatens to become a form for implementing the policies of world powers. I call, of course, for all political factors in the Republic of Croatia to guide this Declaration through the coming days and perhaps the months that await us, which will mark in many areas of life aggression on us friendly Ukraine. Ukrainians and Ukrainians and our friendly Ukraine, Croatia and Croatian citizens are firmly with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94332	Now, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, two MPs will speak. Col. Milanović litre and counterpart Pavliček will be the first to be a colleague of Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94333	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. When the idea of free, democratic and sovereign Croatia began to come true again, I couldn't talk or walk or take care of myself. The first steps we stepped out together, Croatia and I. And as she developed, so did I. Today I am grateful and happy that it was so. I’m happy that I didn’t have to go through oppression and repression, through which my family was going through a sick regime of brotherhood and unity. I am also grateful to all of you defenders who are here today in this assembly, but who you are looking at in Croatia, who bravely told no-Serbian hegemony, the sick ideas of Balkan executioners and the common sense of the Yugoslav regime and set out on the first lines to defend our freedoms. Because of you today, my son is enjoying his and our free Croatia. He is 3 years old today, just like me in 1991 when the aggression against Croatia began and an attempt to end the borders with an excuse to protect the vulnerable Serbs in Croatia. Yesterday, his second homeland, Ukraine, was attacked. She was attacked with the same rhetoric and with the same goal, suppressing ideals, freedom and will of the Ukrainian people with an excuse, this time threatened Russians in eastern Ukraine. The Ukrainians in Croatia know exactly what war means because most of them passed Homeland with us. How they helped us in the '90s, so we must be prepared to help them today. However, Ukraine’s problems were not created yesterday or several weeks ago. Since the occupation of Crimea and parts of eastern Ukraine in 2014, the accumulation of Russian troops surrounding Ukraine has lasted more than a year. Moscow's claims that it acts as a response to the threat of NATO expansion fall within the category of big lies, knowing that in Russia and among its allies and states there will be enough people to believe it. NATO's last and great expansion to the east took place in 2004, Poland, Hungary and the present Czech Republic joined five years ago. So 23 years ago at the 2008 NATO summit in Bucharest, Ukraine's desire to become a member of the NATO alliance was indeed recognised. Over the years, further assurances about membership have been repeated, but acceptance of the Ukrainian application should be a unanimous political decision by 30 NATO member states, and it is unlikely to do so in view of political sensitivity. Last year's NATO summit in Brussels held this restless, unambiguous stance. Putin wants to reunite the Soviet imperial sphere, only this way can Moscow be taken seriously again as a great force. That would be his historical legacy. It may have different forms, but the key element would have to be Ukraine whose loss, Putin considers the biggest strategic disaster that would have hit Russia. He wants a lenient Ukraine, ideally under the full leadership of Russia, but if not, then under Russian influence and certainly not part of any Western military or economic bloc. He will not be satisfied that Ukraine itself has withdrawn its NATO membership application. The Russian goal is to neutralise Ukraine, the recognised secession of all of Donjecka, Luganska and Crimea from Kiev authorities or in a more extreme end, taking up all coastal areas with most of the Russian speech areas, including Odessa. Putin believes that now is the time to achieve his broad ambition in the door of Russian greatness after what he sees as humiliation 30 years ago. The West sees as weak, devoured by domestic crises and the economic consequences of the pandemic Covid and... cultures that devour society inside and cast doubt, especially among many Westerners, into the very foundations of the West. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the EU is skillful in turning the crisis into an opportunity and it is unequivocal because we will now hear new calls for the need of a common EU army. I can say that today I am proud of the united Croatia that is fighting for free and sovereign Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94334	Now he's going to continue his colleague, Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94335	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday something happened that few of us last year at this time thought could happen, which is war on the European continent in the 21st century. It also shows how dangerous a human mind can be when it has the enormous military, financial and economic power that Vladimir Putin has in this case. Unfortunately, this war will fear having inconceivable consequences on the entire European continent, on its security, to its economic standard. And before us is a difficult period, a period of crisis, an inflation period, a period of growth of all energys, rising prices of all food products and services, and only we can pray to God that there is no collapse of the tourist season. Croatian sovereigns will clearly and loudly support this resolution on Ukraine because we rule during the Homeland War have passed what the Ukrainians and Ukraine are going through today. Today, Ukrainian mothers are crying over their sons, today Ukrainian children are hiding in shelters under the sound of sirens and grenade explosions, today Ukrainian cities, the Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian infrastructure, everything we've been going through during the Homeland War. And that's why we as a people may be a little more solid than others, but solidarity has to be shown in action. This declaration must not remain just a letter on paper. I'm glad that yesterday's financial aid, humanitarian Ukraine, and what's even more important is that we have to be prepared for Ukrainian refugees, we have to put them away, if we have to worry permanently, because we don't know how long this conflict will take. They must feel like they're in their homeland here. And there we must show our solidarity, our morality, and our belonging to the Christian world. But we must also bear in mind that this crisis can easily be spilled into our neighborhood. We have around us countries that are still of the interest of the Russian Federation today, we have BiH today which is a powder keg, we have a Republic of Serbia that threatens to secession, we have Montenegro which is currently without the prime minister, without the president of the assembly, we have Serbia who today, as the only state within Europe, has not condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine, so we must be very careful and safeguard the interest of the Croatian people in BiH and safeguard the interest of the Croatian national minority in both Montenegro and Serbia. Let's hope that Ukraine doesn't whisper, we believe that the morale of the Ukrainian army is high and will succeed in stopping this Russian invasion. And it is up to us that, besides this humanitarian aid, in addition to the acceptance of refugees, the Ukrainians will be in our minds and prayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94336	We now move to the fourth debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists will also speak to two representatives of counterpart Klasic and colleague Matincevic. Here you go, colleague Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94337	Thank you very much. Dear president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The free part of the world has unanimously condemned the attack and terror on Ukraine, the sovereign state, the UN member state. At the same time, various populists and extremists on various sides have found fewer and fewer ways to justify their seduction by this autocratic regime and to come up with further justifications for insatiable aggression. In this case, the choice of any moral and responsible person must be clear and unequivocal. We've been listening to a series of misinformation for the past month, and it turns out in the end that the United States and the United Kingdom have been sending legitimate warnings to the world about the upcoming aggression, and unfortunately all diplomatic efforts to reason with Putin and give up on their aggression plans in Ukraine have failed. He's still trying to seduce people in the West with excuses of the deniability and demilitarisation of Ukraine, and the fundamental goal is much deeper and no one else can agree to that. Let us remember that during the Homeland War, the same excuses were planted in order to be attacked and aggressive in Croatia, so unfortunately we had to fight our freedom with blood and today we are on the right side of history and the future. The Croatian geopolitical position on the Union-NATO border is very important because we are a country bordering hybrid non-democracy systems that have committed this same aggression on us and on the whole region. They've never apologized. They're still setting us up with misinformation. They are all also invited today to be part of a civilized world, but then there is no place for dilemmas and there is no place for ambiguities. HSLS has taken a clear foreign policy position of the Croatian government and the entire EU, especially we European liberals have for many years shown great solidarity with Ukraine, which has been a victim of war and occupation for years. The fact is that freedom is far more appreciated if we live in a dictatorship or if peace is directly threatened. Unfortunately, when peace and freedom are established, we tend to forget their values, and we are less willing to guard them and defend them. At this point, the fundamental values of the international community, international agreements and the UN Charter have been attacked. The consequences of the attack on the fundamental concept of respect for international law and the obligation to attack is peace and freedom. We call on the Croatian government to open the borders to Ukrainian refugees and offer every big help to friendly Ukraine as they have provided support and assistance to us in the Homeland War. HSLS supports the proposed Declaration on Ukraine and we stand by Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94338	I'm calling my colleague Martincevic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94339	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, here we all remained in shock yesterday after a dramatic attack by Russia on Ukraine, which I am convinced we all strongly condemn. Despite the crisis that has been going on in the area for years, it has escalated in recent days. I believe that by the last minute, we all hoped that this development would not occur. But it's here. Russia's attack on Ukraine completely changes and redefines strategic relations around the world, especially here in Europe, and such a situation will certainly last another long time. Yesterday the bombs dropped 500km from our border and Croatia must react spotlessly at the level of the entire government, as well as the states as a whole. As early as yesterday after the launch of the Russian attack from Ukraine, the columns of refugees began and it is certainly possible to expect a large number of refugees from around Europe as well as in our country. We must certainly show empathy in these difficult moments and clearly tell them that we are willing to accept them not only as refugees but as full members of our society, of course, if they want to. Therefore, we have asked the government, and it is unanimously accepted that Croatia is not only willing to accept refugees in proportion to its size but also to express our desire to accept them much more. Since Croatia only has experience in accepting exiles and refugees from the Homeland War after the Second World War in Europe when we had 650,000 exiles from Croatia and refugees from BiH, this is exactly the area in which we can sub-proportionally help. In order for this to be possible, Croatia must immediately establish a system that will be able to provide them with accommodation, nutrition, health care, and the possibility of education because it is certain that the whole family will come here. However, we must also enable something that has so far not been a practice in the reception of refugees, which is obtaining work permits, and I would especially like to highlight the importance of quality designing the way we will place them. According to the Reformists, it must somehow not be isolated spaces such as refugee camps and such, and we must not treat people as refugees and asylum seekers and isolate them from our society, but to those who wish to do so we must give our hand as our fellow citizens. It's something that's important to these people, but it's important to us on human and on every other level. In order for what I'm talking about to be possible, all state resources must be immediately mobilized and must start to communicate with Croatian citizens who have shown many times so far that in difficult situations of empathy they have never lacked, and that is especially the case in the Homeland War, but here also recently after the earthquake, and I am convinced that this time will be the case. At this point, it doesn't matter how many refugees will come to Croatia, whether there are 5 or 15,000 of them, it's hard to predict it now, but in any case, we have to prepare ourselves best to accept them in a new much wider way than what has been common in the world so far. as I've already emphasized as my fellow citizens, not just refugees in distress. The People's Party of Reformists strongly supports the adoption of this declaration and we hope that everything we have talked about today and that I have suggested that the government will, as it has been said and adopted and work on it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94340	We will now hear the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, two MPs will speak, respected colleague Mrak Taritas and respected colleague Oreskovic. First up is a colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94341	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at first I would like to say loud and clear without any doubt, we support this resolution just as we support the territorial integrity of Ukraine and strongly condemn the attack of Vladimir Putin and the Russian Federation on Ukraine. After months of laughing and mocking the entire civilized world in the face, Vladimir Putin yesterday launched an attack on Ukraine and threw a black shadow at all of Europe and the whole world. The European and international security order has also been affected, international law has been violated and the sense of peace and security that European people have been hard building for the past 75 years. In the ruins of the illusions of Russian greatness from the Cold War times, we are now witnessing a single attack on peace and civilization in the heart of Europe, which we apparently quite naively thought was no longer possible. If anything, this is a time for all of us to face our own naiveness together and realize that peace and stability should be fought every day hard. Instead, we started with the values where modern Europe is built to take for granted, we forgot the importance of measures and freedoms. This situation may in a very painful way remind us that structural funds are not what is the key task of an organisation such as the EU. With the Russian army at EU borders, we have all remembered what the Coal and Steel Community was then established long ago, which is not to repeat the general war. I especially hope that these values were remembered by just some of those who have been bordering Ukraine, who have been playing European values for the past years and making fun of European values like this. the rule of law. The rulers of these countries were amazed to see Putin a little too quickly forgot what it felt like to have Russian tanks driving the main squares of your cities. This is the moment for the EU to be gathered and reset properly, to defend the values of peace, freedom, the rule of law and cooperation among the nations united and complex. What is happening has not earned either Ukraine nor Europe nor Russia. Although the territory is the largest country in the world, Russia is actually much weaker than what it often wants to introduce itself and how we often see it ourselves. The Russian Federation's nominal VAT is approximately New York City, their main export products just like some third world countries are fossil fuels, raw materials and weapons. This is the moment when we must stand united and determined that such regimes no longer harass us, that they never threaten our peace, our freedom and our lifestyle again. In this sense, I would also like to give full support to the brave citizens and citizens of the Russian Federation who have been publicly and openly stopped and opposed to the violence and madness of the one who currently governs their country. Being an opposition politician or a member of a critical civil society organisation or only a free citizen today in Russia is not harmless. We have all witnessed poisonings, assassinations, inexplicable fallouts with balconies, disappearances and similar events that have occurred to those who dare to criticise or oppose. At the table around Vladimir Putin, however, some other people sit at the oligarchs and members of the regime, well recruited from the Soviet secret services or their spiritual and mental heirs, and will be largely responsible for where we will go further and what will be the final outcome in times to come. But none of what is worth to them are kept in Russia, which is why all the mechanisms to make their lives seriously difficult in the hands of Europe, America and the rest of the civilized world. Yesterday we woke up in a new Europe, in a new world, our support and our heart was attacked by a Ukrainian people. Our mind must be where a united Europe is created that must be able to meet such challenges, a Europe that must have a common foreign, security and defence policy, a Europe whose citizens understand why they are the greats of our history after II. World War II began to build what today is the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94342	I also call on my colleague Oreskovic to continue his speech on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94343	President of HS, MPs and MPs. The declaration is a political message, a document that encourages HS as the representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia with that part of the international community condemning this brutal act of aggression by the ambitions of a dangerous leader, driven by the idea of creating and restoring great Russia. It is unacceptable in the 21st century to reach into the territory of another sovereign state. The explanation of Putin himself, which calls for historical circumstances and historical boundaries, is not enough to strongly condemn. The soft, slow and under-prepared reaction of all states and the international community can lead to the fact that the world will quickly find itself in an even greater crisis and even greater problems. I support this declaration, I support that the diplomatic path continues to seek a solution to this crisis, but I also call for dialogue on what will be the next steps, how we will prepare for concrete assistance from humanitarian to military if necessary, before such dialogue is too late. Therefore, accepting the declaration in HS is not controversial, but this moment of unquestionable HS unity and all MPs is an opportunity to point to the context of our national opportunities. First of all, I want to talk about the role of HS that should finally be played in international issues and in the international problem to start giving guidance and guidance to the President of the State and the Prime Minister, given the fact that we have witnessed very often their passing, not only in the existing set but also in the previous cohabitations, harder or less hard. Secondly, this situation also points to the necessity of both the Prime Minister and the President of the State that they adequately share information with HS, without questioning the confidentiality of certain information or sharing information that may in some way not even need to be shared in such a way, but timely and full information we as the representative body of all citizens must have. Similarly, our joint foreign policy positions, both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, must be shared with all Croatian citizens. Their joint appearance, their unity in these situations, is also a necessary prerequisite for the Republic of Croatia to start to respect itself in international contexts, in international relations. We can't be any, let alone a relevant factor if our two hills don't match or give contradictory statements when it wasn't the place. And thirdly, this speed and manner of reaction of the Croatian Parliament shows that they are wrong to rule when they say that some key and important decisions need to derogate the role of the Croatian Parliament so that the powers to make decisions are exclusively in charge of the government or other bodies. This shows that it is not true that the Croatian Parliament cannot be quick and effective when a rapid and urgent reaction is needed. And this somehow brings us back to the beginning of how our Croatian democracy works in conditions where every day the world becomes more insecure, in conditions where we fear the start of World War III it is important not to forget why there is a Croatian Parliament as a place, as the primary place in which it is being discussed, as the beginning of all political decisions. And in this Croatian Parliament these days we also had the opportunity to witness the same rhetoric of ratting out ethnic nationality in the context of creating and causing new conflicts. These are the circumstances of which all I call on Croatian parliamentary representatives to take care of them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94344	We are now going to the sixth debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HNS, HSU and independent representatives of the esteemed colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94345	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we can take the lead in the manner of politicians and diplomats to adopt this declaration but it will be tradeable and empty if we are not aware of the moment we are in. Yesterday, the world confirmed that nothing has been learned from history and that it is incompetent to stop a 69-year-old who mocks the whole world and takes the right to attack life as an image of evil. Yes, colleagues and fellow war is an attack on birth, development and life. War is destruction and death. So much power in the hands of a man to bring mankind back to performance in one day, in the performance and narrative of 83 years ago. What happened yesterday to my dear colleague and colleagues didn't happen to Ukraine, this happened again to all of us. So it's not just Ukraine, it's us all again. Neither have we recovered from the '90s nor will Ukraine of this in the near future. These are the permanent collective wounds of humanity, and we are aware that there are already many too many. Yes, it's true that Ukraine's history hasn't anointed and it's true that she's never been able to stand a Russian boot. We all know that she paid for it with blood and lives from all occupations to nudidom to the present suffering. We are deeply shaken by the events in Ukraine, fears, suffering, suffering, destruction, and I know I will wonder forever whether the world could have been more normal, seen what was happening and stopped everything. And that, no matter what good we want for the Ukrainian people and how much and how we will help them. We are saddened by every drop of blood, every home destroyed, every child's fear, every victim in Ukraine, and I regret every Russian mother whose son will be wounded or killed, or will be marked as a historical participant of the most brutal aggression on the neighbor and life at all. I also feel sorry for them because the great Russian people have allowed themselves to be manipulated by a destroying machine, a powerful man, but basically only a heartless old man to whom the end is unquestionably approaching. An old man for whom young people will die and who counts on the oblivion of humanity and the relativization of all this, or this great crime. Yes, colleagues and colleagues must and we want to help. I remember 100 hardworking workers who worked at the Uljannik Shipyard as co-operatives and once a month returned to their homes, their families, their homes. They were really good workers, decent people, peaceful neighbors, solid and solid with our workers. That we must and we want to help them because we appreciate the help we have recently received and we consider it our duty, our humanity, regardless of all the difficulties this period of escalating madness brings to all humanity and to us small ones. So, to be in the spirit of this declaration now, we call for the immediate termination of all armed operations launched by the foreign Russian Federation, we regret all human victims and the destruction of military actions, condemning military aggression and any violation of international law provisions, particularly the UN Charter and the European Security Charter. We are in favour of Ukraine's territorial integrity and the establishment of full sovereignty in its entire state realm. We call for a diplomatic solution to the crisis, and we will respect all the obligations we have made as a member of Euro-Atlantic integration. We express our readiness for humanitarian and technical support for Ukraine, especially the reception of refugees in a far greater number than EU membership obliges us to do so. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us be with the Ukrainian people with the heart and deeds and our prayers, to the defender of birth, creation, to the defender of life, and to do good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94346	The seventh debate will now be a debate between the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, two representatives of counterpart Petrov and counterpart Rasdic will also speak. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94347	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The bridge supports the declaration and we strongly condemn the Russian aggression on Ukraine. You can't break international law and start a war on behalf of human rights, you can't be a servant of war in the name of peace. Anyone who wants peace will work to make peace. Croatia must help the Ukrainian people to the maximum at this time in humanitarian aid, in the acceptance of refugees. We must not forget not so long ago the past we had, the sufferings we had and how much we appreciated absolutely every aid at the moment we fought against the multiple enemies. Also, the Republic of Croatia as a member of the NATO Alliance, the EU should act in this situation under its obligations. What is important to me to stress from this present situation is important to me to create a retrospective for two moments, also from not so long ago in our HS in political space, not to rub someone's nose but to always at any time when we make important decisions for the future of Croatia we have pictures of what is happening and we know that in the long run we have to make decisions that matter to Croatia in a way that it is always sovereign and independent at all times. One of those scenes is a debate about LNG terminals, we could listen here in the assembly and political space as it is not necessary. Are there today those who consider the LNG terminal unnecessary? I'm proud of that part that the Bridge played to make LNG happen in Croatia. In every respect, Croatia should be independent. Also another thing, we listened to discussions not long ago that we do not need to modernise the Croatian army, that we do not need planes, that we do not need combat preparedness and ability. Are there today those who feel that it is not necessary? We all believed that the scenes we're witnessing today in Ukraine are not real, not possible at this time. We believed things could always be settled at the table. We didn't believe that a country could invade another country. People today fear the third world war and for those who, no matter what, try to justify the moves of the Russian state by mentioning the prevention, that I must tell them what Saint John Paul II said, there is no preventive war on behalf of the protection of human rights and life destroying a foreign country and destroying human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94348	Now he'll speak to his colleague Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94349	My colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that there is a consensus in the assembly on this declaration, we saw it yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Policy. In fact, there was no SDSS club present, I don't know their position, but here I see a Pupovac fellow has been announced, and I expect them to join this consensus. However, from all this that has happened, and painful difficult things have happened, we must learn some lessons. First of all, I've been listening to these haircuts and phrases about the 21st century, so how is this possible in the 21st century, so who would have imagined it? I will only remind myself that in the early 20th century, the refined Western public dwindled over the barbarism of the Balkan wars, as it is possible in the 20th century. And then these same nations that had fallen asleep were some of the greatest barbarsts in history in that advanced 20th century, and then Auschwitz and Gulag and Hiroshima happened that I wasn't going any further. So every man is the same only today we have more technological opportunities for good and for evil. So every man and every generation needs to be raised morally from zero. A man in a moral sense is not born who is perfect because he was born in this century or that century. So let's put aside those phrases. Ukraine President Zelenski told me this morning, this morning we defend our country alone as well as yesterday's most powerful world forces look from afar. And it ironifies the story of sanctions against Russia. Once again, we see that the EU does not have any single and harmonised foreign policy. They were going to Moscow like every other person in their line of work a little Macron, so Scholz, so this one, and then yesterday night after all Macron phone suddenly talks to Putin if he asked Plenkovic if they were coordinating. We see again that in a crisis situation when it thickens up as at the moment of the migrant wave, as at the beginning of the Covid crisis, the EU is falling apart. Everyone runs their own politics and looks at their own interests. And what signals were sent to Ukraine after 2014 and the glorious revolution? In 2016, there was a referendum in the Netherlands that the Dutch rejected the EU's enlargement to Ukraine. It was already a clear message. After the introduction of partial sanctions to Russia over an annexion of Crimea, Italy resisted these sanctions, it is interesting that the Italian council Veneto has declared that Crimea is part of Russia because it says it affects our business interests. After all, the European Commission missed Gazprom's monopoly on the Opal pipeline. Gerhard Schroeder should be mentioned as acting as a carrier of Russian energy giants to the extent that we rightly wonder if this man was still at the head of Germany on the same line. So I will remind you that a major scandal from May 2016, Gunther Oettinger, European Energy Commissioner from the CDU, flew from Brussels to Budapest by private plane Klaus Mangold, who is a Russian lobbyist and is a Russian honorary consul in Germany. Remember those tears of Federica Mogerini at the moment of the terrorist attack on Brussels, the one that we're looking for to give us security, to tell us what we're doing whining at a press conference, and to say how difficult it is for her. Here's your top EU. So either undercover or corrupt, I cited the example of both Etinger and Schroeder bureaucrats. We people have to imagine that. We should be concerned about what Putin's Russia is doing, but the bigger the trembling should cause us to see who's leading us into the hands of some people corrupt and incompetent, and we see what the EU is doing today. The EU, which will be the biggest victim of all that is happening after Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. There's talk of sanctions, so here's from sanctions that yesterday, hours after the launch of the Russian attack on Ukraine, China has publicly announced that a contract has been signed that buys de facto all the wheat and barley from Russia, from all regions. Therefore, an alternative to goods that will not be sold to the West will be sold to China, but of course China is profiting because Russia will become increasingly dependent on China, which opens up some entirely new problems and issues. What Zelenski says clearly, and what anyone knows about history is clear that sanctions will not affect Russia. So yesterday is Stern who is experienced, who knows well how much Russia can withstand sanctions, he says forever, that people are willing to endure and endure. The oligarchs can't do anything to Putin. For your information on the expenditure of the post-modern state in Western politics where the sphere of economy and finance has long swallowed up the sphere of politics because in the past time when you see one Roosevelt or Churchill, it is clear to you that these people are leading politics. Today, when you see these clearly, they have no power in their hands, but they are financial and economic circles that give dynamics, and politics is just a facade. In Russia, the arrival of Putin happened on the contrary, not to the oligarchs of Putin, but to the military and intelligence structures they hold in hand to manage economic flows in Russia. And the stories of sanctions are stories for small children, poor Zelenski says it himself this morning. And how seriously these sanctions will be carried out is the speech and dissatisfaction of the SWIFT banking system. They don't want to because it could have a harmful effect on the dollar. This is some truth that needs to be told by expressing solidarity with the Russian people and condemning a Russian attack on all of this that we will agree on today and support this declaration. People today must start a discussion of who is leading us and how hard times are coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94350	We're going to the eighth debate, the HSS Club of Representatives and RF, a respected colleague, Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, first of all, I would like to say that the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front is of course no exception and that without any delay will support the resolution and that we oppose and strongly condemn this act by Vladimir Putin and the Russian Federation because war is never a solution and war has never been justified, and I express my sympathy for the club in the name of those who are suffering, who are at war, who have been attacked and who are in the situation in which Croatia was in 1991. I don't want anyone to take this the wrong way, me and my party are both pro-Western and Croatia is pro-Westernally oriented after all, and we showed that in the referendums when we join the EU, around the NATO alliance there was no dispute, so we are part of the Western world. The fellow Rasudiæ who left said a lot well and a lot, so a lot is true what he's saying but the fact is that most of the other colleagues when I listened to them, and I listened carefully to them just talk like we don't know ourselves in the Miss World's choice, we stand for peace in the world, we condemn, we put sanctions on them, and it's like we decide something. And all those who are really interested in geostrategics, geopoliticals, what's been going on for the whole 20th century, what's happening to them today, I recommend this book that you can get, which was written by the man who led the de facto American politics along with Henry Kissinger in the second half of the 20th century, so it's Zbigniewa Brzezinski, otherwise born Poljak, the man who knows very well what I'm talking about. He wrote a book called "The Great Chess Tablet", and when you turn it around, you see that there's the whole world. He talks about something very brutally sincere that is called hegemony,...even mentioning it, hegemony predominance, predominance who will be world hegemon and that is the whole history of the 20th century, the history of all wars, the history of all crises who will be world hegemon. We have chosen sides and there is no dispute that no one in Croatia sees themselves under Russian influence, at least I think that's how it is, I'm sure it's like that regardless of what has some small nuances of other ideas. He said counterpart Rasudic would eventually be affected by small people and ultimately by the divided and hypocritical EU, but what we all forget is not the German border state of the NATO Alliance and the EU but is Croatia. What we all forget is that in the neighborhood we have people who have not clearly and resolutely condemned as we all do Russia's attack on Ukraine, no matter what the game is, and it's a big game. This great game and what I am afraid of and what we should think about because, first of all, we, with all our condolences for Ukraine, need to think about Croatian interests. Is it of Croatian interest for us neighbouring countries to have doubts about whose side they are on or our interest with their allies, through the NATO Pact to put pressure on BiH, the Republic of Serbia in particular so that part of BiH and the Republic of Serbia can be integrated or declared as soon as possible, do not make a hypocritical statement, but we call on you and join the NATO alliance. It is Croatian interest, that Croatia, to stop being a border state and to stop being part of a big game as such, or one little cube on the world map of people fighting for world predominance and global hegemony, is very clearly described in this book. If we think about it that way then we should forget the stories Dodig will stand by Russia, it will be like this, we will have opportunities to see people who were very loud about Putin and that's what counterpart Rasdic was saying, who changed their mind overnight, overnight. So choose, no more undecided choice sides. Today, Alexander Vukic is in front of that inquiry. Let's help us not hypocritically, help ourselves and help him to choose the right side, and the right side is the west side no matter what we think about details, no matter what some read about conspiracy theories. We are not going to influence world politics, but we are part of an alliance that is the most modern, progressive and which, regardless of the economic interests of both world and banking and lobbyist, whatever you want, is something with all imperfections, yet something that is the ultimate achievement of world civilization ever. And that is why my application goes in this direction to people who lead Croatian foreign policy to think about it in such a way as not to be guided by petty feelings from the recent past but to help Republika Srpska, BiH and Montenegro to join the Western side as soon as possible and to facilitate their geostrategic position and to help the pawn that we are to hide in principle in the depth of the problem because God forbid the reverse situation happens, just imagine that the reverse situation happens so that Russia and Republika Srpska determine differently what happens then Croatia, not Germany, not France, but what happens to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94352	We move to the ninth debate of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94353	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday was the day that will live in the shameful memory of "A day of Infami" as President Roosevelt said on December 8, 1941. In front of the U.S. Congress. There was a barbaric act, there was aggression and invasion of a free country. There has been an event that will certainly mark this century that will shake the economic, political, and every other order of the world. After my colleague and colleague's day yesterday, nothing is the same. Unfortunately, with war and aggression, we have some experience and you know whose back war and aggression always breaks. Let me quote a people’s wisdom, he says, “In war the state gives cannons, the rich give oxen, and the poor give sons. After the war, the state makes new cannons, the rich get their oxen, and the poor are looking for graves," it happens now in Eastern Europe, not so far from Croatia and on the one hand and the small under quotes to Ukraine and the small Russians after this will seek graves. And it's the only result of this kind of policy-making of a colleague and a colleague. Remember 1991. Croatia has not had nearly as much support as Ukraine has and some say, and what this declaration will bring, what it will achieve, are we going to help Ukraine, if we are going to save a life. Well, colleagues and colleagues remember how much such a declarative support would mean to us in 1991. We should be proud to stand on the right side of history. We should proudly stand in defense of the weak and those who have been attacked because colleagues and colleagues allow me to quote Dante's darkest places in hell are reserved for those who maintain neutrality in times of moral crisis. This is a moral, political and any other crisis that destroys the foundations of the world order. And that's why, that's why I'm proud of my colleague and colleague on the right side of history. And that's why, together with my colleague, Busic, I was in protests yesterday and joined our fellow Ukrainian citizens who raised their voice for freedom, for democracy, for everything we believe in and we fought in the Homeland War. My colleagues and colleagues, I also want to make one thing clear here. I personally consider myself a Russian, I love Russian culture, Russian language, Russian poetry, Russian art. And this is not a declaration directed against the Russian people. From this pay phone I say especially to those brave Russians and Russians who protest against this war, and that's not such an easy thing in the Russian Federation because many are arrested and who knows what will happen to them, I send them our love and support because colleagues and colleagues this is a declaration against a regime that drives this people into war. And a war like I said only brings graves. There are no enemies in graves or cemeteries. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome from this place and support and a quick reaction from the Croatian government that has sent assistance to Ukraine. It is not the last one we will send, Ukraine will also need humanitarian and any other political and advocacy support. This is especially important for Croatia because, as my colleagues touched before me, this war can easily be spilled beyond the borders of Ukraine and can also touch our region. And that is why I welcome both the efforts and the governments of the present and those before and all of us here that we promote, we advocate and we work to make this region stable, peaceful, to become part of the EU, those who want and NATO because that is the only way we can guarantee peace in the long term in our region and on the European continent. The Social Democrats Club will, of course, unequivocally support this, this declaration and ultimately I want to address the Ukrainian people, but also our fellow citizens of Ukrainian origin with words in their language, you will allow me and you will understand why I will translate it for you. In 1862, Paulo Chubinsky wrote a very moving song that later became a Ukrainian anthem, but I will use the original version of not the one that is today an anthem because I think it better reflects the message that I want to send from this place. .../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... Not yet Ukraine has failed, no glory or freedom, but once again, the Ukrainian brothers will smile at our fate. My colleagues and colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear friends, in the expectation that your judgment will smile again as we send you support, we send you love and we can withdraw both the parallel and with the Croatian song Croatia has not even washed away yet. You have not yet failed as long as there are free, free, democratic peoples and individuals and individuals who are not ashamed and afraid to talk about what is right, which is good and who are not afraid to condemn aggression, and that is exactly what this is. And for that reason, dear Ukrainians, dear Ukraine.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... neither fame nor will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94354	Now, as the tenth debate, we're going to hear IDS's club and respected colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, is history really a life teacher or is it not or are people just worse students? After all those trials of trauma, hunger, millions of deaths, thousands of destroyed cities, everything else that's happened in Europe in the last century, you'd think that as a human species we've learned something, that we've evaluated, but obviously we're not, or some we're not. And I believe, and I hear here today that we are all aware of the seriousness of this moment and that may be the global consequences. Russia's attack, the Russian Federation on Ukraine's sovereignty, is causing deep concern and global uncertainty. After a few decades of peace in Europe, practically war returns and all the worst that comes with it. The dark days for Europe are in sight, and therefore for the whole world and since yesterday we have seen the hard and painful images from Ukraine that I believe cannot leave anyone indifferent and our thoughts, of course, are with the citizens of Ukraine who we want to express full solidarity and support this way. And the most difficult will be in the next period of the so-called. to ordinary little people, among them mostly the powerless and the poor. And with all these tears, fear and uncertainty we see through the media that these people now feel our thoughts are, of course, with them. And that is why Croatia, but the whole of Europe must show unity and make sure that Ukraine gets our help, in the first place of all, that humanitarian where I think of the acceptance of refugees and the Croatian government must provide technical and financial preconditions as soon as possible for what is expected of us as hard as possible and therefore we also welcome yesterday's urgent reaction from the Croatian government. The battle for Ukraine is a battle for the EU, for Europe without terror, as a space of freedom and democracy versus depotism and militarism, and let us not forget that Ukraine is not so far away from us, is not on the other side of the world, the closer it is to us than we think. And this attack on Ukraine poses a threat to European and regional stability, as well as to the world order long ago based on clear rules and rights. It is jeopardizing the European model of democratic society, and it is therefore crucial that as such it cannot remain and should not be without an answer. So let's show unity, show that the values on which our society rests have no alternatives. And before us, there are great challenges, history has unfortunately proven to be repeated again and therefore it takes a lot of wisdom, but I repeat a lot of community because very quickly the priorities of society change, in a moment you realize how important stability and peace is because sometimes when you have this stability and that peace, you have to relax, so maybe you don't think enough about it. In Croatia, we know very well about our country's aggression before 30 years ago. what consequences this can leave on society as a whole and unfortunately how long these consequences can last. So let us show what it means to live in a civilized world where freedom and security are the fundamental values of our society. Let's set an example here, put aside our world-wide diversity, our political divisions, and show our unity. This is expected of us at this time and Club IDS will, of course, support the Declaration on Ukraine as expected, and I see here today that it will also do so to all other club representatives in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94356	Like the 11th, the esteemed fellow Pupovac will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94357	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just a few days ago, we shared our hopes with many Europeans, and above all with the Ukrainians that diplomatic negotiations would eliminate war dangers and create assumptions for strengthening peace on the Ukrainian borders and within Ukraine itself. These hopes were immersed in the beginning of Russian military intervention and Russian military attack on Ukrainian territory with dramatic consequences for Ukraine itself and tragic for Russian-Ukrainian relations. We therefore join the condemnation of the use of the armed forces to resolve interstate and international disputes, especially within state disputes, as is the case with Ukraine, which was attacked by the Russian Federation military force. In these dramatic days, we express solidarity with the citizens of Ukraine, with our close Ukrainian people. We join the expressed willingness of our government to receive a possible refugee contingent without specific restrictions and humanitarian forms of assistance if necessary and beyond our capabilities, and the willingness to act politically to stop the war and the suffering of citizens and peoples of Ukraine. We therefore particularly support the emphasis on the relevance of our country's peace experience in collaboration with the UN, the OSCE and other relevant organisations of international, neighbouring countries and representatives of the Serb community, such as this experience of peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunje and experience similar to that of ours in other places in the world. We share deep concern that the policy of the national interest championship, which the Russian Federation first called for, and in this case, as well as in a number of other previous cases threatens to destroy the remaining components of the international order, of its multilateral institutes created in the post-World War II period. National interests are legitimate, but not as a means of suppressing or jeopardising other people's national interests and abuse or breaking world order institutions based on mutual recognition of national interests of the same national interests and international justice in relations between countries. Nothing less deeply concerned, we share no less deep concern over the possible impact of the war conflict in Ukraine on peace in the European area and the restoration of deep and harmful lines of division, both between the Russian Federation and the EU, and within the EU itself. After the fall of the Berlin Wall for the EU and for the entire European space, which means for Russia and other countries of that space, it would be multiplely devastating and extremely harmful if a new iron curtain was raised. We call for greater commitment to resolving open issues in the countries of our region, our neighbourhood. The war in Ukraine and military tensions between NATO and the Russian Federation can have alarming consequences for Southeast Europe. Geopolitically divided and non-consolidated. Here we take a serious opportunity and equally serious responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, where we see our opportunity and our responsibility. A great responsibility for all political leaders in the region, especially responsibility for the preservation of peace and political stability in the region and responsibility for European peace. Because that peace is also the peace of our region. And all the countries of our neighborhood. We therefore join the call to restore diplomatic activities in order to establish peace and political dialogue, such as never since World War II until now European peace and political dialogue are at the edge of the ambition. Although many countries and nations have in the past 30 years, although many countries and nations, although many countries and nations have not had peace in the past 30 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, never as much as ever since World War II has world peace been questioned as it is now. Everyone needs to contribute, especially large and powerful, and small and without great prayer, and small and without great power equally because it is their life's interest, and here we are, it's our life's interest as a country. We of the SDSS Club are for a world without force policy and without military confrontation. Without the domination and the politics of national interest over the security of peace and the right of every country to live in peace. We are committed to the preservation of European peace and to the preservation of international order and its consolidation, and against the abuse or devastation of international institutions because it is just as well preserved and strengthened international order that we need today in the near and in the feelings of these days, especially close to Ukraine as they need other countries that have passed or passed such a dramatic experience. And those who from this pay phone and this House ask where the SDSS is at this moment and these days, yesterday and today on the Committee on Foreign Policy and in the parliamentary debates I want to say, here we are. To those who ask where the Pod is, I mean, I'm here. To those who ask who they consult with, I mean, with myself, the closest to me and with my conscience. As I did in 1991, 1995, as I did in 1996 at the beginning of peaceful reintegration or in 2004 when we received an answer as a country that we could negotiate with the EU and 2013 when we became a member of the EU and I am here today to listen to those of us since '90. They suspect and treat it like a fifth column. If anyone thinks that this will help Ukraine or any other country, he is hardly mistaken and embarrassing all of what we are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94358	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Peđa Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It would be a lie to say that in the 21st century war is unimaginable. The shots from Yemen, Africa, we watched them on TV, but they didn't hit us. I think each of us should look into our hearts and think about why that's the case. However, it is also a fact that since this war only one state has divided us, only one state. That is why the debate on this war is important for us in Croatia. But also because of what we've been through and I'm going to start with what each of us should say and we said, solidarity with Ukraine, but above all with the Ukrainian people who are today the victim of aggression. The policies of iredentistic pretents that we have seen in the past, especially at our door, and let us not be wrong from both the West and the North and the East, on all sides again, are at the root of the war conflict and are again at the root of guilt, suffering and tragedy. In Croatia too, we must be the first to strongly condemn them. That's why it's very important that we are here today in the universe, that we are destroyed in solidarity and condemn what's going on. Support the declaration, but it can't stop at that. I think this must be a moment where we should also talk about some very concrete things that are happening and that although we as a small Croatia, as a member of the EU and NATO, we can influence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we may not be aware, but Kiev, where street fights are being fought at the moment, has almost as many inhabitants as Croatia. Why am I saying that? Because we all remember how many of our people had to flee their homes in 1991, and in Ukraine only the capital has about as many residents as we do, which means that we are likely to have a serious, but serious situation in which we have to show solidarity. It is both first and foremost, but we must also ask Croatia as the EU to speed up and facilitate the process of entering these people who escape the war conflict regardless of their age, regardless of their sex, which runs from war, destruction, murder in the EU. It's got to go now. These people can't wait at the border, they can't be allowed to experience another when they have to flee their homes, they have to. It's not that they want to, they have to, because they shoot and they die. It's a message I expect our government to pass on to our partners both in the EU and NATO alliance. I think it's our obligation, because of humanity, but also what society unfortunately had to go through. The second message I want to send is sanctions that were adopted yesterday not enough, not enough. It's like shooting a tank with a stick. It is hard to expect that sanctions will in itself prevent war. But when the war has already begun and we have decided that we will not enter it, and that decision has obviously been made, then we must do everything we can to send a clear message to the aggressor. And the sanctions that were adopted yesterday stopped halfway, they just stopped halfway. And it wasn't that step that I was supposed to take, which is that today it's already becoming quite clear that the line has been crossed and that it won't be tolerated. But these sanctions and those steps are gone, so Russia's gas comes to Europe today through Ukraine, and the money financed by the war goes in the opposite direction. And for the end of a respected colleague and colleagues, something we cannot keep quiet is the position in which Croatia is located, and this position is twice as complicated for us and it is certainly more complex than Germany, Denmark, Portugal, almost any EU member state is economically, but also safe. Because we don't fool ourselves about it in our environment, we have those who cheer for war today, and it's a serious security threat, because as they cheer for war today, when on the territory of Ukraine maybe they'll cheer for war and aggressor tomorrow if he crosses the borders of Ukraine. This isn't someone I know, let my threat. This is just the fact that I've been listening for hours of history and I've read and learned what happened in 1938 and 1939 while everyone's looking at Munich's irony of fate as well as this weekend in Munich has been sticking their heads in the sand thinking that some things can't happen. But as it says on the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin happened, so it could happen again. We in Croatia have to deal with our security situation and I have to deal with our economic situation. This is why I call on the Prime Minister, on behalf of the party that I am in charge of, but I think on behalf of all of us in the Croatian Parliament, to report to us as soon as possible, to give us answers to what are the following steps, to conduct consultations, arrangements and to ensure joint action so that, at times of economic and security threat to our country, we can be prepared as best possible. It is our obligation to us, to our country and to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94360	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representatives Busic and Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We've witnessed an attack that Europe hasn't seen since '39. Last century, and yesterday's scenes in Ukraine remind Croatia of the '90s when criminal JNA struck Croatia with rogue Serbs in Croatia ruthlessly. Nothing caused Russia by its force from land, sea and air yesterday at early dawn attacked Ukraine. It is the biggest military coup in Europe that threatens the security and stability of Europe and beyond. What really happened was what we couldn't believe or think could happen in Europe of the 21st century. With this brutal and massive attack, Russia has shown all its strength and what it thinks, it has trampled the UN Charter, the Helsinki Act and the European Security Charter on which the European Organisation for Security and Co-operation rests. It thus hit the very foundations of a world order based on peace, stability, respect, sovereignty and independence of nations and states, the Prime Minister said yesterday opening a cabinet session. This aggression of Russia in Ukraine certainly changed the world in which we have lived in the last 70 years. But Croatia as a witnessed friendly country of Ukraine, Ukraine will show and open its doors in these difficult days and demonstrate its full solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We have already highlighted it, we said it yesterday on all the announcements and publicly, we went to support the Ukrainian community that lives in Croatia and protested together with them. We are ready to provide humanitarian and technical assistance and accept Ukrainian refugees. Croatia unfortunately has great experience with the exiled, fugitive from the time of the Homeland War and the war in BiH. Already today we are witnessing the tragic loss of human life and suffering caused by Russian aggression, so we are giving clear support to our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people. It is therefore important that we here today at the parliamentary level show unity in condemning Russian aggression. We are firmly convinced that a stable and prosperous Ukraine is in the strategic interest of all citizens of Ukraine, a wider region of course of the EU and the entire European continent as well as the world. We have already received and finally I want to say and to point out that Croatia has, in fact, been in recent years in which Ukraine has its problems and is facing Russian aggression, we have received and already shown our solidarity, friendship and understanding towards Ukraine, we have received children, we have received wounded for rehabilitation and we have received children on summer holidays. We will continue to do so, and we will be aware of how much and how we want to help Ukraine at this difficult time, and I would especially highlight this social dimension and this friendly and this humanitarian aid, in fact, one humanitarian aid that we really want to give to the Ukrainian people who have witnessed these past few years. Well, here goes my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94362	My colleagues and colleagues. Today we bring the Declaration of Ukraine, condemn aggression to Ukraine, support sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine. We ask the government to provide humanitarian assistance, yesterday we saw the government have already singled out more than nine million kunas, the prime minister himself said that Croatia is ready to accept Ukrainian refugees and have already begun preparations if there are needs and unfortunately goes in that direction. But the government also led a responsible policy when it built a LNG terminal on Krk, I think today it is clear to everyone why it was strategically important, as well as when it strengthened the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In front of our eyes today, Moscow is creating a Russian world. A strategic, geopolitical concept that has developed since the beginning of this century and which began to apply since 2008. in Georgia and now, of course, it's on a much higher escalation of the intensity of the conflict, it's happening to Ukraine. However, we also have in our neighborhood an attempt to see what is so - called a replica. The Serbian world. Of course there are also geopolitical differences because Serbia is not a nuclear force, it is in another geopolitical situation, it is surrounded by NATO member states, the EU, but also the concept of a remethylative factor for the europeanisation of Southeast Europe. And that is why we have to say from this pay phone today, Croatia stands firm for the Europeanisation of Southeast Europe and stands firm with its NATO allies in our neighbourhood, alongside Albania, Northern Macedonia, especially in these days along Montenegro to continue its Western orientation as an independent state. We support dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo, we believe that the future, the European future must be open for both Serbia and Kosovo, is up to them to decide. We give support to BiH's independence and territorial integrity and send a message to the leaders of the Bosniak people as the most numerous people who therefore has a special responsibility to accept the Croats as equal partners, to accept and an agreement that will allow them to choose their legitimate representatives, not to force Croatia into some tactical co-operation with Banja Luka because, let's be honest, Banja Luka is only the outpost of Belgrade, so that it is not forced by Croats, but also by not putting the whole of BiH in some context of the Serbian world. No, the alternative is the europeanisation of all of Southeast Europe and it is our strategic interest and we take care of it today when we bring this declaration, it is the Declaration on Ukraine, but it is also a declaration of who we are. Because today, colleagues and colleagues, today we are not red or blue, today we are all red, white, blue, today we are showing what red, white, blue represents, a beautiful country where a proud people who fought for their freedom live and who today is solidarity with those whose freedom is threatened. That's the point and that's what we want to say today with this Declaration about Ukraine. My colleagues and colleagues, those who triggered this aggression, aggression and international order wanted to sow the division in the west that Europe is moving away from America, that America is moving away from Europe, that Europe is divided within itself, and even to encourage divisions within EU members on their political scenes. We have responded to this and in this assembly by showing unity and doing so on the foreign political committee, we are doing so today and at this plenary session. Why? Because today there is simply no place for non-classification, today we send a message once again, we are all representatives of the Croatian people and of all Croatian citizens on the side of peace, on the side of the right, on the side of freedom. That's our message, that's the message we send today to both our people and our world and our allies and our partners and that in the Ukrainian people. Freedom is simply a concept that defines us, the state we fought for is here to defend freedom. That's the point and that's why I repeat today we're being led by this red, white, blue banner as a symbol of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94363	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94364	Last night when I came home, I first hugged my wife and children vigorously after a day filled with news of 40-mile-long refugee columns and after footage of rocketling homes and buildings filled with frightened children's cries and that infallible sound of parental comfort in which all the uncertainty, all the fear, all the despair of knowing that they were completely powerless in front of bombs, bullets and tanks, I was the only one who could embrace my loved ones, I had no words. So in life, it happened that with bitterness I had to hear that sound of war again, that sound of human ruin brought me back to years of persecution, I think it brought us all back. It's actually hard to watch the evil you've experienced happen to someone else. I don't want that and that kind of evil to be done to those who have done the greatest harm to me in my life. As I speak this Russian aggression enters Kiev and in my mind today's date in Kiev is not 25.2. but it is 18.11.... As the weapons speak the laws remain silent, but we do not keep silent, and we who in Russia's aggression in Ukraine see an infallible reflection of the great Serb aggression on our homeland, will not keep our heads shut and watch as that 18.11. takes place 25.2. on the incomplete 8-hour drive by car from us, from this place. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This declaration isn't just empty words, it's not just the sad one... This declaration is our promise to send help in drugs, various necessary materials, including military equipment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That aid is worth nearly 10 million kuna, the government of the Republic of Croatia sent it yesterday. This declaration is also a promise that we will accept refugees just as some countries at our moment of need have accepted our people. She has also extended her hand to help in the peace process and she is something else, she is a strong and clear condemnation of the aggressor. It's something that many of us haven't done in our moment of need, but we're doing it and it's just what we did here in the assembly. Croatia will support the economic sanctions of Russia and I sincerely hope that our prime minister will insist that these sanctions not only stand on the blockade of banks and the property of individuals, but will ask Russia to get kicked out of the SWIFT system. This is how Russia can strike a blow that will make them truly regret the aggression of Ukraine. We must learn something from this situation, however, although we have not led such a agricultural policy so far, it is time to start producing food enough for our needs to reduce our dependence on imports. It is time for our energy needs to stop being dependent on imports from countries that violate international law and then blackmail us with threats of poverty and freezing our people. Croatia can be different, can be more sustainable and can get more green energy. At the very end of messages for countries in our neighbourhood, above all for Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a choice ahead of you. On the one hand, economic prosperity and independence are economically, on the other hand, poverty and dependence on a country that sees you only as a resource. On the one hand, peace and security, on the other hand, nationalist mythology and standing by the violent. On the one hand, the rule of law, on the other hand, kidnapped states. Despite all the pains of our shared past, I hope you will choose the future, because I believe you love your children and wish them well-being and security just as I love my children and wish them well-being and safety. Last night, the werewolf water tower was lit up with the color of the Ukrainian flag. Is there a sadder but stronger symbol of our support for Ukraine? Is there anything clearer that says things, not just words? I don't think so. The Green-Left bloc club will support this declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94365	Next is a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club for the Righteous Croatian Honored Representative Miroslav Škora. But here, before the start of the proposal for a declaration, amendments will be submitted, immediately after the debate is concluded, a session of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be held which will show about the amendments submitted. So after the debate is over, we'll take a break by 12:30 when we vote. Here you go, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94366	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The last two hours I've been listening carefully to all the speakers, sitting here because I think sitting here these two hours is an expression of respect for the sufferings of the Ukrainian people and solidarity with what they're going through. And you can see that it is possible for a miracle to happen in the Croatian Parliament, that we are unique around something, although miracles have occurred before the wonders in which the left has supported the right hand in power, and I am inclined to believe that it may be a miracle that the left is in power thanks to the part of the right. But Russia is bigger and stronger than Ukraine and all its neighbours and that's a fact. Similarly, the United States, China or India are bigger and stronger than its neighbours and most countries in the world. There's always someone stronger, but does that mean that their neighbors and other states and nations should be afraid of them? Does that mean thousands of years of civilization development are in vain? The cold-blooded Russian invasion, therefore, is not only war against Ukraine, but war against international order and international law, although the Russian president announced in 2007 that the protection of the Russians outside Russia's borders is one of its primary objectives. Therefore, something else could not be expected. Similarly, Slobodan Milosevic spoke when it comes to Serbs, and his successor, Vukic, is silent today, but has put the army on alert. This is a scenario of evil that the world has seen many times the best in 1939 in Poland. It's the same scenario from '91. The result of 14912 deaths, 1571 missing persons, 236 billion kuna damages for the Republic of Croatia, destroyed 180 000 homes and 25% of the Croatian economy. It is a big problem when someone who is in power lives in the past and has an ambition that his people must live in one country because history has proved that this is impossible. There are a lot of disagreements around the border around the world, and there are even more reasons for misunderstandings in relations and past events. But we must be turned to the future and do everything to keep the peace paid by the blood of millions of people only in the wars of the last century. This peace guarantee is the existence of our countries and our nations, regardless of what some in this House and in Croatian society think and say that we are small and irrelevant and that we should not interfere in this conflict should be reminded that we are a Christian country like David just a few years ago fought against the Serbian Goliath. At this point, there's an aggression that results in the death of people who don't hate others, but love their own. It's people who are dying looking into the world and looking for any help. For the past 30 years, have we given up in vain and made concessions to be part of a civilized world that should not recognise force as an acceptable form of behavior. In democratic societies, we believe that great and strong have as many rights as the smallest and weakest among us. That should be our motto. I believe we must be a firm and unwavering part of NATO's bloc, advocate unity and determination in the defence of NATO's borders. Today we have to send a strong message that we're a reliable partner, because if we're going to look aside while international bulls do whatever they want, then we can be next in line. As a colleague of the coat of arms of Ukraine has said, there is only one state away from us. And the question is, can a bulldozer or a bully be convinced of something by dialogue when he only understands the language of force? The world to which we belong introduces even stronger sanctions against Russia and our obligation is both legal and moral to introduce them, but it should be true and say that these sanctions will hit those who impose them, and in that sense I want to say something. In fact, Croatia is unfortunately not independent in both energy and economic terms, not in any other way, but this is an opportunity for us to show independence as a proud people who never in their history bent their backs and looked aside while others suffered from a great Croatian kingdom that could defend less and weaker than we know from history to this millennium struggle for freedom and independence that we have developed. What are the ties between Croatia and Russia, and what sanctions can we impose in the first place? It is also necessary to answer openly because it supports the Ukrainian fight against Russian occupation, to be a member of the EU and NATO, while at the same time trading and doing business with Russia, it is at least hypocritical. Croatian media reported on several occasions in recent years that energy, agriculture, trade and tourism are just some of the branches of the Croatian economy in which Moscow's growing influence is felt. Especially since 2015, when then Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak brought 100 major Croatian companies to Russia. The influence of Russian capital in our country was also written by foreign media that mention persons associated with Russian oligarchy or Russian oligarchs who are also large investors in Croatian tourism. Russian capital significantly invests in Tisno near Sibenik, in Istria around Pazin, and owns a majority package of shares of the Losin Adriatic Group. It should also be said that the Croatian Tourist Board has its own office in Moscow and that last year 145,000 Russian tourists made about 800,000 overnight stays on our coast. It praised the Croatian foreign minister who visited Moscow just a month ago. Are we ready to give it up? As far as energy is concerned, Lukoil currently has 53 petrol stations in Croatia and a widespread sale of oil and oil derivatives. It is estimated that we buy gas from Russia annually for about 600 million euros, a quarter of the total trade balance between our two countries. The 10-year contract between the PPD and Gazprom ensures the delivery of a billion cubic metres of natural gas annually until 2027. What are we gonna do with that? The Russian owns IGH and Hydropower. Although the legal ownership of the new Agrokor's biggest shareholders have become a timely two Russian banks, WTB and Sberbank, thus becoming owners of Vrbovek PIC, Belje, Konzum, which means they manage food production and distribution. How we will treat it and whether we can do anything at all because other than the said many investments have been completed by the creation of companies in Croatia, completed, protected and made, but also directly by contracts and funding. That's something we need to talk about when we talk about the next step after the declaration. In the end, I would like to express my condolences for all the dead in Russian aggression, compassion with the Ukrainian people and to express my regret for these events that I fear will not stop in Ukraine alone. Today's Die Welt writes that the ultimate goal of BiH, or Republika Srpska or Mr. Dodik, is close to Putin and is his man, but according to the Croatian president and strategic partner. We're gonna have to sort things out, and this might be a good opportunity. Zž Advocacy Club For a fair Croatia will support this declaration and any decisions of the Croatian Parliament that will lead to the imposition of the most severe sanctions against Russia, condemning aggression against Ukraine and demanding the immediate ceasefire and start of peace talks, all in line with the fact that our country is an EU member and NATO member and that we are proud of the country that Mr Stier said, won in the war and on the blood of Croatian martyrs and on the tears of Croatian mothers and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94367	Next is the debate of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94368	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must thank the opportunity to speak as an independent representative of this subject as well, and I must thank the ruling majority who accepted my idea here for a month to bring such a declaration. I understand that it should have waited because I understand that there should be consensus and I am extremely glad, I am pleased to say and proud that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, all clubs stopped in the same way here with Ukraine. A few days ago, I was the only one in the Croatian Parliament to talk about the situation in Ukraine, and I even warned about the possibility of starting World War III. I do not want to be a bad prophet, however, the question is whether this aggression and the Third World War may have begun. Russia, unfortunately, is not alone, is not lonely, so around it is created an entire block of states. China has sympathy for this act it does today, which Russia is working towards Ukraine. India hear, Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Belarus and many other countries openly supported Russia in this act. What we must be aware is that the world will never be the same after this aggression. And for those of you who haven't heard what Vladimir Putin said earlier yesterday morning at four o'clock, I'm going to read the final sentence of his extremely dramatic speech. He said next. I have a few very important words for those who might be tempted to get involved in events. Whoever tries to distract us or even create a threat to our country and people must know that Russia's response will be instantaneous and that it will lead to such consequences that you have never faced in your history. So, these are the words Adolf Hitler said only the similar words. Are we scared? Well, I have to say, I'm extremely glad that we're all here today, and we bravely said what we said, but did the West give us a little bit of a fling? What I was talking about a few weeks ago in HS, and they even called me, this time it should be said out loud, we're the West, we're a NATO pact and we're not traitors, and we're going to do everything that NATO has to do with the US and other partners and we're going to respect it, because I'm going to repeat, we're the West, we're the NATO Pact, and let it be clear to everyone. There's one thing I have to say here that's not so beautiful, but it's true. This unanimous decision by all Croatian MPs is one big slap, in fact, to our president of the country because I hope that no Croatian politician will ever happen again, and especially not the president of the country, will gladly convey Putin's media and set it as a bright example in its main informative shows. And finally to get a little closer even though you're all following, I'm sure, what's actually going on in Ukraine today. Right now, people with machine guns are entering the Verhove Work Parliament in Kiev, so this is the same Parliament in Kiev right now that Russian soldiers are entering with machine guns, gunning around the Government of the Republic of Ukraine, it's here across the street, at this point Russian tanks are trampling people on the Kiev streets, it's 2022. And I will repeat once again that no one forgets, we are the West, we are the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94369	Here's how I announced my break by 12:30. MEETING AT 11:48 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94370	Now we're going to vote on the debated points. The first is the Proposal for a Declaration on Ukraine. Before we begin the voting process, I would like to inform you that the Ambassador of Ukraine is with us to the Republic of Croatia, Vasilj Kirilić. On behalf of all MPs and MPs, and on behalf of the entire Croatian people, I would like to tell you that we are at these difficult times with you, with the Ukrainian people. [[Applause.]] The Proposer of the Declaration is the Committee on Foreign Policy, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Katarina Peovic and Green-left bloc representatives' club. I would like to ask the first representative of the motion to be shown about the amendments submitted, which will be done by the chairman of the Gary Cappelli Committee, please be my guest, President of the Committee. First we go with the amendments of MP Katarina Peović, and there are 5 of them. 1st Amendment to the above-mentioned MPs, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94371	... The proposal is rejected by reason that the entry is in the text structure and significantly alters the meaning of this Declaration which has been accepted unanimously on the board, so we are against this proposal. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The President's incursion: Wait a minute, here it is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94372	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94373	Thank you. I'll explain a little bit about what this is about. First of all, to say that the Workers' Front unequivocally condemns Russia's attack on Ukraine, we're against any aggression, squabbling, calling for wars, there's no Russian aggression and there's no excuse, it's a response that's disproportionate to what led to it. However, we believe that the text of the Declaration must be somewhat more appropriate. The declaration should be a document of solidarity, a document condemning the inadmissibility of war and war conflicts, a declaration of such classifications and a claim that the conflicts are beginning to be caused by nothing, becoming a document that is being embroiled in a conflict that exculpatory US foreign policy and expansionist policies of NATO. For us, therefore, this is unacceptable, the aggression is not caused by anything but is the consequence of an outdated cold-war policy which is not welcomed by the Russian Federation and NATO and the United States. So, this Declaration amnests the US policy which was well focused on fostering conflict and demining a peaceful solution, which arises and some MPs have warned it out of US energy policy, so last fall it was completely, as we all know, finished a new pipeline from Russia to Germany-North Stream 2 that was supposed to be put on the market, but the United States did everything it could to stop and do everything it could to stop North Stream 2 and be cancelled to force Europe into a more expensive American LNG gas. So we think it would be wise and wise to substitute words with nothing-provoked aggression for words It's completely unwarranted. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And I'll ask to vote on the amendment. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94374	The applicant does not accept this amendment. We have to vote on him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Just for a little while longer, there's one room missing, here it is, it's here. So, he voted 124 MPs and MPs, 7 were for, 117 against, so the amendment didn't get the required number of votes. We're going to the 2nd Amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94375	The second amendment is not accepted with the same interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94376	You can explain your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94377	So again, I'm going to explain what the amendment is about, and it might be good if there was a reason for a negative answer, but well, I think it would be correct. What was crucial here is to delete the words of that freedom of state to choose or change their own security arrangements. So, of course, we welcome that states have the right to freely choose their own security arrangements, it is quite clear that this is about direct support for Ukrainian integration in NATO, although it is really a question of whether Ukraine itself is asking today and what is the EU's policy on this matter at all, especially if we take into account both the reactions of France and Germany. The only solution would be to break the Russian fire and to withdraw Russian forces from Ukraine and declare neutrality which at this time advocates both France and Germany. It should be said not to militarize relations but to end NATO expansion and return to charters such as the CFE Charter The Conventional Armed Force in Europe,.../incomprehensible/... Treaty of 1990, the ABM Charter means the Anti-Balistic Missile Treaty of 1972 between the United States and Russia as well as the New STRAT New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty Charter between the United States and Russia in 2011. What we also want to say is that this amendment contained our opposition in this sense also means in some way our militarisation of a society that we absolutely condemn that yesterday Minister Banozic had already activated the sending of Croatian soldiers and asked President Milanovic to send Croatian soldiers to Ukraine to oppose the Workers' Front and we will ask him to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94378	So let's vote on an amendment that the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? This amendment also didn't get enough votes, 8 were for, 119 against. We're going to the third amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94379	The third amendment is not accepted with the same explanation that I have already made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94380	Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94381	So we asked for the words to be deleted primarily by the Eastern Partnership initiative. So it is the initiative of 6 EU countries in the neighbourhood of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, formerly meaning the republic of the Soviet Union. The initiative was otherwise founded in 2009, a year after the Russian-Georgian War, whose domains mean at least from that aspect that we consider classified as failing from the conflict between the members themselves to strengthening relations with Russia, we think it would be wise to reshape that amendment, or that point by eradicating the words of the particularly Eastern Partnership initiative, and we will ask that votes on the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94382	Let us also vote on the 3rd amendment, it is not accepted by the Proposer. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get the votes needed, two were for and 114 against. Amendment 4 is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94383	The board did not accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94384	Here's my colleague, Peovic, an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94385	So here we think that a vague, unclear point of support for the government of Ukraine to implement these Jell-O mythic reforms that can mean something else, should actually be replaced without a conversational willingness to make it more clear in just one point, so without a conversational willingness to accept refugees from Ukraine and all affected by this conflict by helping the people, so that we can help the people of Ukraine who will bear the greatest burden of crisis. What is important to us is the emphasis on helping the people also means working, working majority in Ukraine, and it does not mean elites that will profit from this anyway. It is important for refugees to be given an article, meaning an entire article in which support is unreservedly, means not only material support but also acceptance of refugees who are estimated to have as many as 2 million of them on some estimates. So we asked for it to be included so we asked to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94386	Let us vote on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Neither did this amendment get the required number of votes, 20 for, 103 against. And we're going to the last 5th amendment of MP Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94387	The Committee does not accept the same reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94388	Here's a statement from my colleague, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94389	So the last amendment, Amendment 5, went after adding a point that reads, Croatia will not participate in war operations in Ukraine but will insist on a peaceful conflict resolution. It is first and foremost for us to insist on a peaceful resolution of the conflict, not on entering the war immediately. According to us, it is one of the basic tasks, so if you want left policies to insist on opposing domestic militarisation, which I can say that she left immediately and yesterday, with a request from the Minister of Defence to send Croatian soldiers to Ukraine, so what we are asking here to insist on peaceful conflict resolution. We're asking to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94390	Let us also vote on this amendment which the Proposer does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 8 for, 13 abstentions and 100 against. Now we're going to the two amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Amendment number one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94391	Amendment number one. The Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament partially accepts the Green-left bloc's Green-Left Club in a changed form so that it now reads. The Croatian Parliament expresses full solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people and calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide humanitarian and technical assistance and accept Ukrainian refugees in this for Ukraine and all peaceful world at a difficult time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94392	Comrade Bencic, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94393	We accept the amendment in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-25-0.u94394	Thank you. In this form it becomes an integral part of the declaration and the second amendment of the same club of representatives has been withdrawn, so there is no need to vote on it. I thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Cappelly, you can take your seat, and we will now vote on the Declaration on Ukraine. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 134 MPs and MPs voted, 133 were for and one abstentions, and thus adopted the Declaration on Ukraine as proposed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. ... [[Applause]] The annual report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2020 is submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2020 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 110 MPs and representatives, 106 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
